The long-running family drama television show, 7th Heaven, will conclude the series (in production since 1996) with the 200th episode.  7th Heaven has been the WB's time slot on Monday nights at 8:00 p.m. for the past ten years, since August 26, 1996.  David Janollari, President of Entertainment for The WB, and Brenda Hampton, Executive Producer, discuss their finishing touches to the final season.  Brenda Hampton states, "We owe a compelling and unforgettable final season to the Camden family and to the millions of viewers who helped grow this program into a huge hit"; and states, "Although we had anticipated this could be the last season, it was difficult breaking the news to the cast and crew,"  Aaron Spelling, Executive Producer, also notes, "Not many shows make it to 10 years and it's even rarer for a series to go out on top after 10 seasons."7th Heaven achieved the top 20 viewers of The WB of all times.  At the "birth of the twins" in the episode, In Praise of Women, on February 8, 1999, the show got the highest viewer ratings of 12.5 million viewers, making it number one in the time slot against all viewers.  7th Heaven dealt with several social aspects of real life situation/issues ranging from "teen suicide and sibling rivalry to violence in schools".  Episodes also touched on subject matters of the Iraq War and the death of "real-life American serviceman who was killed in Afghanistan".  7th Heaven also achieved over a dozen honors and awards from various organizations.  7th Heaven had many honored guest stars such as Wayne Newton, Richard Lewis, Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen, and Ashlee Simpson.  Other guest stars appear from other shows on the network, such as: Felicity, Smallville, Gilmore Girls, and Charmed.Stephen Collins as Reverend Camden sincerely states, "7th Heaven has been a gift", "Plus making a bit of TV history while watching our wonderful cast grow up in real time, has been the experience of a lifetime."Children of Men, a movie based on a P.D. James book, has won the 2006 USC Scripter Award for its writing. Both the original author, James, and the screenwriting team will be honored by the University of South California for their work.The winning screenwriters are Alfonso Cuaron, Timothy J. Sexton, David Arata, Mark Fergus, and Hawk Ostby. The Children of Men was James' 12th book, written in 1992.USC School of Cinematic Arts Writing Division Chair Howard A. Rodman commentedFor nineteen years, the USC Libraries Scripter Award has honored "writers for the best achievement in adaptation among English-language films released during the previous year and based on a book, novella or short story." While there are many awards for either screenwriting in general, or adapted screenwriting, the Scripter is the only award to recognize both the screenwriters and the original authors.Also nominated was:screenwriter Aline Brosh McKenna and author Lauren Weisberger for The Devil Wears Pradascreenwriter Neil Berger for The Illusionist, based on the story "Eisenheim the Illusionist" by Steven Millhauserscreenwriters Peter Morgan and Jeremy Brock for The Last King of Scotland, based on the book by Giles Fodenscreenwriter Patrick Marber and author Zoe Heller for Notes on a ScandalThe titles were selected by committee, from a list of forty-five eligible films. The committee is made of Writers Guild of America members (including some Academy Award-winning screenwriters and Academy Award-nominated screen writers), authors, film industry executives, USC faculty, the dean of the USC Libraries, and selected members of the Friends of the USC Libraries, the sponsor of the event.Previous screenwriters and authors honored include the teams behind Capote, Million Dollar Baby, The Hours, A Beautiful Mind, L.A. Confidential, The English Patient and Schindler's List.The long awaited finale in the "Halo" series, "Halo 3", has beaten the previous record of opening day sales held by "Spiderman 3" of US$151 million. In the United States, "Halo 3" got $170 million worth of retail sales in the opening day alone.The game by Bungie Studios is available in 37 countries, which means the exact opening day figure will be much higher.More than one million Xbox Live subscribers logged on to play "Halo 3" against each other over the Internet in the first 20 hours of launch, according to Microsoft Game Studio's corporate Vice-President, Shane Kim.In comparison, "Halo 2", only sold $125 million on its first day of retail sales back in 2004. The first two "Halo" games have sold a combined total of 15 million copies.It has been reported that Microsoft spent millions of dollars on marketing the third installment of the popular "Halo" series."Halo 3" was launched on September 25 at midnight in each time zone, New Zealand being the first country to play the game, followed by Australia.Andy Strangeway, 42, a painter and decorator from Yorkshire, has completed his quest to sleep on every Scottish island with an area of over 40 hectares. The quest, which began on the island of Barra, took four years and was completed on September 3, after Strangeway spent the night on the uninhabited island of Soay in the St. Kilda archipelago."I think it is the greatest adventure that this country has to offer - there is nothing more difficult and I don't think anybody else will achieve it in my lifetime. The enormity of what I've done is beginning to sink in," said Strangeway.On many of the islands, he slept alone, accompanied only by his teddy bear, Clyde. Strangeway is the first person to complete this feat, and is currently writing a book about his experience that will be available in stores in October.Elizabeth Mitchell, who plays Juliet Burke on the popular series Lost, has been cast in the ABC pilot for V, its remake of the classic science fiction television miniseries, according to an Entertainment Weekly report.Although ABC and Warner Bros. officials told the magazine she was only cast as a guest star, the announcement led to speculation and concern that the casting could mean Mitchell's character will be bumped off at the end of Lost's fifth season.EW reports at least two characters will be killed during this season, which ends in May 2009.During a January interview with New York magazine, Mitchell said of the Shakespearean roots in her name, " I’m certain it’s not random because they’re never random. It does seem to me that she’s pretty much destined for tragedy, whichever way she goes, no matter how hard she tries to fight against it."Juliet, who was introduced in show's third season, was one of the "Others" who were on the island before the main characters' plane crashed there. She is currently involved in a love-quadrnagle with characters Sawyer, Jack and Kate.After the launch of "Halo 3" on Tuesday (September 25), Microsoft promoted a brand new Xbox360 racing game "Project Gotham Racing 4" (PGR4) with a friendship match as a "TOP on TOP" competition between Taiwanese World Cyber Games (WCG) PGR3 Delegate You-cheng Liu and "Drift Master of Taiwan" Po-hsiung Chou at YAMAHA MotorTown in Taipei City, Taiwan.Before the friendship match, Cary Chen (Senior Product Marketing Manager of Entertainment and Device Division, Microsoft Taiwan) show the new features on PGR4 to the press, VIPs, and guests and praised the "PGR" game series with the "Kudos" skill points. He remarked that in the "PGR4", not only joined new car type and racing motorcycles, but also add Dynamic Weather System feature for the performance of new different type experiences on weathers, driving, and racing lane.Chen also remarked that PGR series is surely respected because of the racing game competition factor on WCG from 2006. This "PGR" series can realize lots of dreams of players on making some special skills which can't be done on reality. With the Xbox Live linking, PGR series has successfully made a great achievement.After the presentation and demos, Microsoft Taiwan held a friendship match. Before the match, Y. C. Liu welcomed P. H. Chou with Chou drove a BMW car to the main entrance. After the entrance, the match started. With the witnesses of VIPs, press, and players, Liu won the friendship match by the turning fault of Chou. Even though Chou wanted to invite Live as a racer in reality after the match, but Liu temporarily declined with his consideration.Microsoft Taiwan announced that the Chinese Version of "PGR4" will be available on October 5, and welcomed players competing with "I want 'PGR4' Helmet!" photo competition. And also, "Yamaha PGR4 Cup - Taiwan Driving Master Championship" will be held and set qualification section in October and final section in December of Information Month in Taipei.The finalists for the USC Scripter Awards were announced recently. The teams behind Children of Men, The Devil Wears Prada, The Illusionist, The Last King of Scotland, and Notes on a Scandal all received nods.For nineteen years, the USC Libraries Scripter Award has honored "writers for the best achievement in adaptation among English-language films released during the previous year and based on a book, novella or short story."While there are many awards for either screenwriting in general, or adapted screenwriting, the Scripter is the only award to recognize both the screenwriters and the original authors.Alfonso Cuaron & Timothy J. Sexton and David Arata and Mark Fergus & Hawk Ostby for Children of Men, based on the book by P.D. Jamesscreenwriter Aline Brosh McKenna and author Lauren Weisberger for The Devil Wears Pradascreenwriter Neil Berger for The Illusionist, based on the story "Eisenheim the Illusionist" by Steven Millhauserscreenwriters Peter Morgan and Jeremy Brock for The Last King of Scotland, based on the book by Giles Fodenscreenwriter Patrick Marber and author Zoe Heller for Notes on a ScandalThe titles were selected by committee, from a list of forty-five eligible films. The committee is made of Writers Guild of America members (including some Academy Award-winning screenwriters and Academy Award-nominated screen writers), authors, film industry executives, USC faculty, the dean of the USC Libraries, and selected members of the Friends of the USC Libraries, the sponsor of the event.Previous screenwriters and authors honored include the teams behind Capote, Million Dollar Baby, The Hours, A Beautiful Mind, L.A. Confidential, The English Patient and Schindler's List.The self-proclaimed "King of All Media", "shock jock" Howard Stern made his debut on Sirius Satellite Radio, being introduced by the new official announcer, actor George Takei.  yesterday with liberal use of profanity. Stern made the deal last year to jump to Sirius after increasing pressure from the government, due to fallout after the Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime controversy.Stern said, "I don't compete on terrestrial radio anymore." Satellite radio is not regulated by the United States government as it is a subscriber service.In his deal with Sirius, Stern gets two channels, "Howard 100" and "Howard 101". The channels launched in October 2005 under the names "Douche 100" and "Douche 101," filled with mostly dead air. However, due to his contract to former employer, Infinity Broadcasting (now CBS Radio), at the time he could not broadcast on them, so he filled up the time with 24-hour marathons of Wack Pack members until his contract expired on New Year's Day. That day, Stern did a commercial free segment on his two stations, playing clips from his days as a child, to working at WTBU (Boston University college radio), WCCC, W4, WWDC, WNBC, and WXRK. Then on January 3 and 5, Stern and his team did live test broadcasts, listeners did call in during the tests, Stern told them that these were test broadcasts and that debut show would be on January 9.Stern began his career in his family's basement, making tapes of fictional radio programs. He then moved into real broadcasting when he began a show at WTBU, Boston University's college radio station. He then moved on to Hartford's WCCC, followed by WWWW (W4), before landing a job at DC-101, WWDC, there his morning show became a big hit but was fired for criticizing the station. A notable incident happened the day after the crash of Air Florida Flight 90. He called Air Florida asking how much a one-way trip from the Washington National Airport to the 14th Street Bridge would cost. He then moved to New York's WNBC-AM were he had an overnight program (since Don Imus had the morning show). WNBC management attemepted to control Stern but not to much success he was eventually fired before WXRK "K-Rock" picked him up and where history was made from then on.With the departure of Stern, K-Rock and some other stations have switched to a francished format know as Free FM. CBS Radio also replaced Stern with Van Halen guitarist David Lee Roth on the East Coast, comedic radio personality Adam Corrolla on the West Coast and a lesser-known DJ know as Rover.The Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit and Cranbrook Art Museum debut Shrinking Cities. The project, which examines urban decline in cities across the globe is sponsored by Germany's  Federal Cultural Foundation. Shrinking Cities includes contributions from more than 200 artists, architects, researchers, filmmakers, journalists, culture experts, and sociologists aimed not only at showing the effects of this global phenomenon but also exploring how to deal with it.The project, which began in 2002, involves local teams from four cities: Detroit, USA, Manchester/Liverpool, Britain, Ivanavo, Russia and Halle/Leipzig, Germany. The teams examined the negatives and the positives of urban decline. Along with the exhibit contribution of the team and international idea competition was launched.Shrinking Cities premiered in Berlin in 2004 and later traveled to Halle and Leipzig Germany. In Detroit it will run from 3 February until 1 April. Cranbrook Art Museum and the newly founded Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit will cohost the exhibit, with buses running in between the two.At the end of January, Bach Technology announced their new music file format, MusicDNA, which was developed as an intended replacement for the mp3 format, which has been the dominant format in music since its inception.  MusicDNA uses similar compression methods to mp3, but then also adds an xml file which defines other content that can be included.  Wikinews reporter Tristan Thomas caught up with Bach Technology CEO Stefan Kohlmeyer to find out more.At 5:36:30 a.m. local time Tuesday, Hollywood was abuzz as the Academy Award nominations were announced by Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences President Sid Ganis and past Oscar nominee Salma Hayek. The winners from these nominations will be announced at the 79th Academy Awards ceremonies in Los Angeles on 25 February, 2007.The Simpsons, a major hit animated television show, is set to appear in movie theatres. It has been confirmed that The Simpsons Movie will appear in theatres July 27, 2007.The Simpsons has been on television for 17 seasons and FOX confirms that it will run at least two more seasons. The show is currently contracted through FOX until 2008 and is the longest running television show on prime-time in the United States. An estimated over nine million people watch the show every Sunday night, but that number is down from earlier peak viewer numbers.Moviegoers that go to see Ice Age: The Meltdown will get to see a 25-second 'teaser' trailer of the upcoming movie.The Simpsons first began on the The Tracey Ullman Show in 1987 and in 1989 they started their 30-minute series on FOX.The American cartoon series "The Simpsons" will today be broadcast for the first time in high definition (HD). Today's show will also introduce a new title sequence.Today's episode, named "Take My Life, Please" (20x10), also makes references to HDTV in the Chalkboard gag when Bart Simpson writes "HDTV is worth every cent" on the chalkboard. This will be the first major permanent change to the show's introduction since its launch in 1989; previous changes have included variations in the duration of the intro, and special one-shot introductions for the Treehouse of Horror Halloween episodes. This new intro also includes some 3D animation when the camera pans over Springfield.This episode is not quite the first time The Simpsons has appeared in HD, as The Simpsons Movie was rendered in HD. Fox will broadcast The Simpsons in 720p and will now letterbox the show on their standard definition feed.The DVD edition of the vampire romance-fantasy film Twilight sold more than 3 million copies on the day of its release, making it one of the top-five bestselling first-day DVD releases in the last two years.The movie — based on Stephenie Meyer's novel of the same name —  was released as a two-disc special edition DVD March 21. The 2008 film earned almost $380 million in worldwide sales during its theatrical run.Nearly 6,000 stores around the country held midnight events to mark the home release of the film, which Wal-Mart said was the most pre-ordered DVD in the store's history.Media reports said it was unclear whether Blu-Ray discs were factored into the 3 million amount.Among the other recent films with best-selling first-day DVD releases were Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End, The Dark Knight, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and Transformers.“We are incredibly appreciative that Twilight fans came out to once again support this film at our midnight events across the nation,” Steve Nickerson, president of Twilight studio Summit Home Entertainment, said in a press statement.“With such successful first-day sales, it is apparent that our fans remain passionate about the Twilight saga and want to own a piece of the Edward and Bella story they have come to love," Nickerson said.North America's largest outdoor dog festival came back to Toronto last weekend for its fifth year. It ran from the 9th of June to the 10th of June at Toronto's historical St. Lawrence Market. A Wikinews reporter was there on Sunday to report on some of the events that happened on the last day.The "Woofstock" dog festival attracted as many as 140,000 people with their dogs. The festival had tons of accessories, sold under tents, to buy for dogs; food, toys, designer clothes, and more. About 400 vendors and exhibitors were there to promote their products, which also gave private dog companies or groups a chance to show their new products. The local SPCA and some animal rescues were under tents answering questions from visitors. While walking, all visitors could see the CN Tower and other very tall buildings.One of the local TV stations, Citytv, was there. They hosted a live event at the show which was broadcast on TV. People came up on the stage and asked questions regarding their dogs and the host and co-host answered them.A man, who called himself the "Chalk Master", drew two pictures on pavement with chalk. He did it for free but donations were welcome. One was a picture of a girl's head beside a dog's head, and another with a wolf."Hello Humans. I've been invited here to provide your eyeball(s), with some pretty colours. I don't get paid as I work this weekend strictly for tips... so, if you like what you see please make a DONATION. If you don't like it simply reach into the pocket of the person next to you and give me their money. CHALK MASTER."A contest called "Canada's top dog" had its own tent with a professional photographer taking pictures of dogs behind a white screen; the winning photo is to be published on the cover of "Puppy and dog basics" magazine.Large "Gourmet" dog bones were also served from a cart and table.Next year's festival is expected to be bigger and better with even more attractions.Garrison Keillor, the humorist and longtime host of A Prairie Home Companion on US public radio network NPR, hung up his microphone this week. The final episode of Companion to be hosted by Keillor was recorded yesterday at the Hollywood Bowl with 18,000 people in attendance. It was broadcast today.Musician Chris Thile takes over as host in October. Thile is expected to keep the program's basic format intact while updating its content.Keillor, 73, created A Prairie Home Companion in 1974, and it turned into a "42-year detour". He had gone to Nashville, he said, "to write about the Grand Ole Opry for The New Yorker." Keillor found Nashville "so unbuttoned. All of these wonderful performers — Porter Wagoner was there, and Minnie Pearl, Roy Acuff. They were all children of the Depression, and they felt so lucky to have whatever they had. And it was really a happy place. So I got seduced by that into trying to start my own show."On Friday, Keillor said he kept going for the friendship. "[I]t was to get to meet people if you had no social skills. And people would walk up to you and say, 'I heard you on the radio.' This was the beginning of a conversation that would lead in all sorts of interesting directions." The final episode changed direction very little; Keillor added duets with five of his favorite singers, then closed the show with a medley he performed alone.Companion highlighted the sensibilities of the Midwest of Keillor's youth. His on-air persona was a throwback; a "radio bard" telling amusing stories spun from the fictional town of Lake Wobegon, Minnesota. Now, he says, that version of the Midwest "is receding in the rear-view mirror at high speed."Garrison Keillor was one of six children raised in a fundamentalist family in Anoka, Minnesota. Television was forbidden in the home, but their large Zenith radio allowed him to listen to rhythm and blues music and serials like Lassie.Keillor began writing after deciding he wanted to play football, only to learn that he had a heart defect. "So instead of playing football, I wrote about football. No better thing for a kid, than to write about actual things that are happening before your eyes. [...] I was very, very lucky." His broadcasting career started after a speech coach suggested he could overcome his fear of performing in front of other people by taking off his glasses. "And when you learn that you don't have to be afraid of people you can't see, you've taken a step towards broadcasting, you see?"42 years later, Keillor says he plans to resume writing. A memoir and a screenplay are in the works.The BBC, who broadcast the Live 8 event throughout Saturday and Sunday, has received hundreds of complaints regarding "swearing outbursts". Madonna and Snoop Dogg are among those who used "bad language" before the 9:00PM watershed. Following last year's Super Bowl, where U.S. broadcasting networks were criticised for not forecasting Janet Jackson's bodily exposure, the BBC pledged to incorporate a time delay of several seconds in certain live broadcasts in order to provide a level of censorship to potentially violent/unsuitable scenes. The Live 8 event, however, was broadcast live. The BBC, said a spokesperson, had received "just under" 400 complaints regarding the use of language in its coverage."Millions of people enjoyed our 12 hours of live broadcasting. We are sorry if any offence was caused.", she added.The stars accused of swearing before the watershed include Snoop Dogg, Madonna, Johnny Borrell (Razorlight) and Billie-Joe Armstrong (Green Day).Previous complaints received by the BBC range from 240 complaints made as a result of the new 3D weather map, to 47,000 in the build up to the broadcast of "Jerry Springer - The Opera".Banana Joe V Tani Kazari, a five-year-old Affenpinscher, won last night's Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show.Joe is the first Affenpinscher to win Westminster's Best in Show. The small black dog beat out six other dogs that had won in their respective contest groups — Adam, a Smooth Fox Terrier; Oakley, a German Wirehaired Pointer; Jewel, an American Foxhound; Matisse, a Portuguese Water Dog; Honor, a Bichon Frisé, and crowd favorite Swagger, an Old English Sheepdog — to win the title.Joe will be turning six next month and is retiring from his career as a show dog. Today, he is to fly back to the country of his birth, The Netherlands.This past weekend, a "Cartoons country" festival started in Moscow in Polyot ((en))Russian language: ‍flight cinema. The program included free access to cartoons in governmental cinemas network during the next week. The opening ceremony involved watching cartoons, a fair, and a chocolate fountain. The festival is run by "Kinoobedinenie for children and the youth" ((ru))Russian language: ‍«Кинообъединение для детей и молодёжи» and Association of animated pictures ((ru))Russian language: ‍Ассоциация анимационного кино.Monday, October 15, 2007 Atlanta, Georgia —After losing their bid to host Wikimania 2008, Wikimedians from the Atlanta, Georgia bid proposal are now working to host a conference focusing on Wikimedia in the Americas. Mike Halterman, a student at the University of South Florida and unpaid intern at the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF) offices in St. Petersburg, Florida, is helping to plan the Conference of the Americas which will be held at the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech) in Atlanta, Georgia on May 15-18, 2008. Several others who helped in the conference's creation include: Andrew Guyton, Dan Rosenthal, Geoff Swanstrom, Hillary Lipko, Jessica Gibson, Matt Britt, and Wikinews administrator and contributor Craig Spurrier."We went forward after Wikimania because we felt that we had a good idea on our hands, and all the organization and manpower should not go to waste. We can still make a difference here in our own hemisphere, which as far as Wikimedia goes, has been overlooked in favor of the world picture. We want to show the work done by people here, and how it impacts people here," said Halterman in an exclusive interview with Wikinews.The conference is focused on "discussions of Wikimedia and the free culture movement and how they relate to communities (national/regional, social, linguistic); discussions about the impacts free culture movements have in these communities, and by the work done in said movements in everyday life," says the announcement. The discussion includes North America, specifically the United States and Canada, along with the countries of Latin America. Wikimedia Argentina and the WMF have also been given a proposal, but decisions on endorsement are still pending for both.There will also be a journalism segment that will be held inside the Turner Broadcasting building on Techwood Drive in Midtown Atlanta.After the location of Wikimania 2008 was announced to be in Alexandria, Egypt, the LGBT community spoke out, wondering if the jury, a group of Wikimedians who selected the location, took into account LGBT rights, safety of all attending, human rights, or free speech in the country before making their decision. There has since been discussion and controversy over the location posted on several public mailing lists.Despite that, Halterman, who was on the bidding team to have Wikimania 2008 in Atlanta, states that the Conference of the Americas was not formed in retaliation, revenge or to "out maneuver" Wikimania 2008 and that the discussion for the COTA was taking place long before the location of Wikimania was announced. He also states that the conference's purpose is not to compete with it, but to give those who are in the western hemisphere a chance to attend a Wikimedia event for the Americas."This was never something that was supposed to be 'the American solution.' We aren't trying to compete with Wikimania at all. We're not out to make a statement against Wikimania. This isn't done out of anger, it's done out of a drive to unite, not to divide. We have over 100 interested parties all over the United States who want to volunteer and/or attend in some fashion or another. Reaching out to the other communities is high on our list of priorities and we really do want to make this a hemispheric effort" as "it's more expensive for people to go to Egypt over something in their own country or something close enough to it," said Halterman to Wikinews.The conference is sponsored by Georgia Tech, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the Public Journalism Network (pjnet), Ibiblio.org and the Carolina Open Source Initiative.Moviegoers around the world are expected to queue into movie theaters during the opening weekend of the movie "The Da Vinci Code," despite the disapproval of both critics and clerics.The film, directed by Ron Howard, is an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Dan Brown, which has sold over 60 million copies worldwide.  Officials at Sony-owned Columbia Pictures, which distributed the film, expect the film to gross US$50 million to US$80 million during its first weekend in the United States, based on figures from early matinees on Friday.  "The early matinees are very strong and extremely encouraging," said Steve Elzer, a spokesman for Columbia.Outside the United States, the film is also proving controversial, as long lines formed outside theatres in China, while the movie's release has been postponed indefinitely in India and banned outright in the Philippine capital of Manila."The Da Vinci Code" stars Tom Hanks and Audrey Tautou, who respectively play a Harvard professor on religious symbols and a French cryptologist who become involved in a murder mystery revolving around the works of Leonardo da Vinci, a secret that could rock the foundations of the Roman Catholic Church if revealed, and a society formed to protect that secret.The film was previewed at the Cannes film festival to mixed reviews, and critics have generally given the film a cool reception.Certain thematic elements in the film and novel have caused a religious backlash, as Catholic officials call the movie blasphemous.  "'The Da Vinci Code' gratuitously insults Jesus Christ and the Catholic Church," said Vincent Nichols, the Roman Catholic archbishop of Birmingham, England. "It deliberately presents fiction as fact."The Catholic Church in China called on its followers to boycott the film, while a Catholic lay group in the United States plan is planning rallies outside 1,000 theatres nationwide.  Francis Slobodnik, who is coordinating the campaign for the Pennsylvania-based group, called the film "an insult directed towards God."Quentin Tarantino's 2012 film Django Unchained returned yesterday to cinemas in China, after being withdrawn by Chinese film importer China Film Group Corporation a month earlier, for which Xinhua cited "technical reasons".The film faced a suspension order by the importer on April 11. China has a strict policy on censoring films, for sex, violence, and political content. Besides nudity and violence, the film has themes of slavery and rebellion. The 165 minute long film was reportedly cut to 162 minutes, removing scenes containing nudity.The film's debut was reportedly estimated in April to produce ticket sales of 60 million yuan (US$9.8 million); however an official at Shanghai United Cinema Lines reported sales of roughly 100,000 yuan (US$15,800) over the weekend. Low sales have been ascribed to various factors such as lack of publicity, few and poorly timed showings, and illegal internet downloads of the film during the near month-long hiatus.Django Unchained was released December 25, 2012 in the United States, and stars Jamie Foxx, Leonardo DiCaprio, and Christoph Waltz.On Monday, at the 58th Grammy Awards ceremony, Canadian singer The Weeknd won his first Grammy Award, Best R&B Performance, for his song Earned It, which was also featured on the soundtrack of the 2015 Fifty Shades of Grey movie based on E.L. James's erotic novel Fifty Shades of Grey. The Weeknd also won the Grammy Award for Best Urban Contemporary Album for his second studio album Beauty Behind the Madness. Abel Tesfaye — The Weeknd — had seven nominations in total including Record of the Year for his song Can't Feel My Face and Album of the Year.The YouTube video of the song received more than 179 million views and more than 1.1 million likes.The Weeknd was also nominated for Grammy Award for Best Pop Solo Performance, but British singer Ed Sheeran won the golden gramophone for his song Thinking Out Loud.Last year, Beyoncé won the Award for Best R&B Song for Drunk in Love featuring her husband Jay-Z.This awards ceremony marked the first Grammy wins for The Weeknd, Justin Bieber and Ed Sheeran.U.S. and Canada — North American movie box offices were dominated  by Universal pictures last weekend as two of its films, a comedy, Meet the Fockers, and a horror flick, White Noise, together raked in a combined $52.6 million, more than half the $98.3 all films made over the Jan. 7 weekend, according to film tracking firm Box Office Mojo.But Universal's dominance of the North American box office receipts is in danger as 20th Century Fox, Paramount, Warner Brothers and Sony all have films debuting in wide release Friday.The use of a 25-second clip from John Lennon's song Imagine in a film critical of the Theory of Evolution has been deemed likely to be defensible under a fair use doctrine by U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein.The film Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed, produced by Premise Media and starring comedian Ben Stein, uses the clip to represent "the most popular and persuasive embodiment of this viewpoint that the world is better off without religion", according to Premise representative Anthony Falzone at a hearing last month. In the song, Lennon proposes the hypothetical "Imagine there's no heaven ... and no religion too".On April 23, 2008, Lennon's widow, Yoko Ono, along with his sons Julian and Sean, and music producer EMI Blackwood, Inc., filed suit against Premise Media seeking damages for alleged copyright infringement, as the song had not been licensed to appear in the film. On May 19, a preliminary injunction was issued, preventing distribution of the film. On June 2, Judge Stein of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that the fair use defense would likely succeed if it went to court, and lifted the injunction. In his judgement, he wrote that "the fair use of a copyrighted work for the purposes of criticism and commentary is not an infringement of copyright".Expelled is a documentary that claims that Intelligent Design proponents are being suppressed by the majority of the scientific community. It has received criticism from many scientists and film critics, and has also faced copyright claims over animated sequences that resemble the short animation The Inner Life of the Cell, produced by XVIVO and Harvard University.In a statement Ono commented that "it is a pity that this decision weakens the rights of all copyright owners". She plans to appeal the decision.The animated series Family Guy returned to the FOX television network with a new episode Sunday for the first time since it was taken off the schedule three years ago. Although the show kept most of its audience that lead-in The Simpsons gave, FOX was still fourth out of five major broadcast networks in the half-hour, losing most notably to ABC's hit Desperate Housewives (UPN, the other major American broadcast network, does not air original programming on Sundays).However, the season premiere of Family Guy and the series debut of American Dad (which helped usher in what the network termed "The New FOX Sunday") helped bring FOX to the #2 spot out of five networks in the crucial 18 to 49 demographic, one of the most important to advertisers in the key May sweeps period. "Sweeps" occurs four times a year and helps networks and independent affiliates determine how much a fixed amount of time for commercial advertisement will cost (the higher the ratings, the more revenue for the networks selling the time to advertisers).On the whole, Family Guy averaged a 6.3 rating in the overnights as posted by Zap2It. While the overnight ratings are fairly accurate, the numbers are preliminary and are subject to minor change. One ratings point is equal to 1,096,000 households, as there are now 109,600,000 households in the United States with at least one television. This translates into a little more than 6.9 million households whose sets were tuned into Family Guy, as recorded by the sample of "Nielsen families," who record their viewing habits and contribute to the ratings process the US uses. The use of the word "share" in the article means that it is the rough percentage of viewers with their sets on at that hour tuning into a certain program. For example, nine percent of viewers in the United States with their televisions on at 9 P.M. Eastern Daylight Time were tuned to Family Guy.This only added up to a 9 household share for the hour, compared to an 11 share for Law & Order: Criminal Intent on NBC, a 14 share for a CBS Hallmark Hall of Fame movie of the week (traditionally only aired during the key sweeps periods), and a 23 share for the aforementioned Desperate Housewives. Averaged with the performance of American Dad, a cartoon produced by Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane, FOX earned a mere 5.8 rating/9 share for the hour.The episode revolved around a big scheme Peter Griffin, the main character of the series, conjured. To give his wife Lois (who no longer finds him sexually attractive) a second honeymoon in order to "spice up" their love life, he pretends to be actor Mel Gibson so they can stay in a new luxury hotel for free. Peter stumbles upon a sequel to the film The Passion of the Christ, and vows to keep the movie from ever seeing the light of day. To get the movie back, Gibson kidnaps Lois and keeps her captive on top of Mount Rushmore, which leads to a scene in which the three battle on top of the monument, in a homage to the film North by Northwest.U.S. and Canada — With no new competition to speak of, last week's Hollywood fare is set to once again dominate North American Box office receipts over the New Year holiday.Of the new films opening this weekend, Lions Gate's A Love Song for Bobby Long will have the widest release, playing in eight theatres in Los Angeles and New York. Other openers include ThinkFilm's The Assassination of Richard Nixon, starring Sean Penn and Sony Pictures Classics William Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice with Al Pacino and Jeremy Irons, both of which will be playing in four venues in New York and Los Angeles.To be considered in wide release, a film must open or play in at least 1,000 theatres throughout the U.S. and Canada. The lack of any new wide release competition Friday almost ensures that the last week's slate of films will benefit at the box office.The most likely contender for top-money maker is Universal Studios' Meet the Fockers, the sequel to 200's Meet the Parents starring Ben Stiller, Robert De Niro, Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand. That movie raked in $44.7 million over the Christmas weekend and a total of #108.5 million as of Dec. 29, according to Box Office Mojo.Fockers is being shown in 3,524 venues over the New Year weekend, six more than last week, making it the second-widest released film for the weekend. Only the Jim Carrey family comedy Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events with 3,623 venues has a wider release.The music video for "Gangnam Style", a song by South Korean artist Psy, has become the most viewed YouTube video of all time. The video, which now has over 816 million views since being uploaded in July, became the most watched after overtaking the music video for "Baby", a song by Canadian singer Justin Bieber, which was placed on YouTube in 2010.With approximately 5.4 million likes, "Gangnam Style" is the most liked YouTube video ever, as recognised by Guinness World Records. The video has averaged approximately six million daily views since its upload. Guinness World Records previously said about the video: "In years past it was unthinkable that something would be viewed a hundred million times, and now Gangnam Style has achieved more than twice this figure in just three months on YouTube." Should its daily view count average rate continue, "Gangnam Style" could potentially pass one billion views by the start of 2013."Gangnam Style" satirises consumerist aspects of the Gangnam District of Seoul, the South Korean capital. The music video has influenced numerous parody versions, including one called "Mitt Romney Style", which was created in the run-up to the 2012 United States presidential election.Park Jae-Sang, Psy's actual name, said "Gangnam Style" "never targeted foreign countries. It was for local fans". He said his intention "was to look uncool" in the music video "until the end. I achieved it."The song has reached number one on music charts in about 30 countries. Its popularity has extended as far as US President Barack Obama; and Ban Ki-moon, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who can be seen performing one of the dance moves to the song in the video above.Psy has now signed with The Island Def Jam Music Group, a record label representing such acts as Mariah Carey and Justin Bieber.The music video for "Gangnam Style", a song by South Korean artist Psy, has become the first YouTube video to surpass one billion views. The video, which was uploaded to the video sharing website on July 15, became the most viewed of all time last month after overtaking the music video for "Baby", a song by Canadian singer Justin Bieber, which was placed on YouTube two years ago. With more than 6.1 million likes, Guinness World Records has recognised "Gangnam Style" as being the most liked YouTube video ever; it also has over 449,000 dislikes. 'officialpsy', the YouTube channel upon which the video was uploaded, now has in excess of 2.1 million subscribers and has achieved over 1.4 billion video views overall. According to Google, the company which owns YouTube, the video has attracted between seven and ten million daily views on average since being uploaded to the site.Park Jae-Sang, the actual name of Psy, explained the meaning of the song in an August 2012 interview with CNN. "People who are actually from Gangnam never proclaim that they are — it's only the posers and wannabes that put on these airs and say that they are 'Gangnam Style' — so this song is actually poking fun at those kinds of people who are trying so hard to be something that they're not", he said. Despite its international popularity, in a separate interview with Reuters earlier in August, Park Jae-Sang said "Gangnam Style" — a satire of consumerist aspects of the Gangnam District of the South Korean capital of Seoul — "never targeted foreign countries. It was for local fans". He said his intention with the video "was to look uncool until the end. I achieved it." "Gangnam Style" has inspired countless parody versions, prompting UK newspaper The Daily Telegraph to suggest it was "the most parodied video ever". Among the parody versions are one performed by inmates of the Philippines' Cebu Provincial Detention and Rehabilitation Center, one with students from Eton College in the United Kingdom, one from Chinese artist Ai Weiwei and one created in the approach to the 2012 United States presidential election called "Mitt Romney Style".Numerous prominent figures have attempted to imitate the "Gangnam Style" dance — which involves crossing one's wrists over each other and motioning as if "you're riding an invisible horse in your lower body," Park Jae-Sang explained — including United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, US President Barack Obama and Google chairman Eric Schmidt.Thirty-six years after he was found guilty of an armed robbery in London, a court has quashed the conviction of George Davis, ruling it unsafe. The court stopped short of ruling he was definitely innocent, leaving a prominent 1970s campaign that saw "George Davis is innocent - OK" graffiti daubed across the city only partially vindicated.The case dates back to April 1974, when armed robbers raided the London Electricity Board. A police officer was wounded by a gunshot to the leg. Davis was one of four put on trial the following year, but only he was convicted following two policemen who witnessed the robbery. He received twenty years imprisonment for wounding and armed robbery.By 1976 he was back out of prison with a Royal Pardon after doubts about his identification were raised by then-Home Secretary Roy Jenkins. The 1970s saw the slogan "George Davis is innocent - OK" written across bridges and buildings around the capital, some of which remains today. Support came from The Who frontman Roger Daltrey, who wore a t-shirt promoting his case, and punk band Sham 69 writing a song about it.One incident saw a cricket pitch vandalised in 1975, leading to the abandonment of an Ashes Test match in its final day at Headingley. By 1977, however, Davis was back in prison and admitted a role in a different armed robbery, at a Bank of Cyprus branch."I have been protesting my innocence since 1974," Davis said yesterday. Lawyers have said evidence that should have overturned the 1975 conviction "had been in the hands of the authorities since 1977."Following the conviction the case was reviewed by Detective Chief Superintendent Jack Moulder from Hertfordshire Police, who reported back to the Home Office in 1977. Journalist Andy McSmith, writing in The Independent, claims the result "was so damning that for 34 years the Home Office refused to let anyone, including Davis's lawyers, see it."Moulder's report drew on evidence from Inspector Brian Reynolds, who began the investigation into the robbery before responsibility was passed to the specialist Robbery Squad. Reynolds had criticisms of the Robbery Squad, but said senior officers warned him not to obstruct Davis's conviction in any way. The Robbery Squad was being led by Jack Slipper, whose claim to fame is that he tracked down the Great Train Robbers. The Criminal Cases Review Commission, which investigates alleged miscarriages of justice, collected evidence in the Davis case and referred it back to the Court of Appeal. 36 years ago, a young barrister called David Whitehouse defended Davis. Yesterday, Whitehouse's last day in court before retiring was in the Court of Appeal, hearing Davis's conviction overturned."If George Davis had not been so stupid as to rob a bank I might have got the conviction quashed [in the 70s]," he remarked outside court. Asked about being called stupid, Davis remarked "He can call me what he likes after [all] he's done for me."The appeal was heard by a panel of three judges. Lord Justice Hughes said they were in a "state of ignorance whether or not the defendant committed this robbery and we are unable positively to exonerate him". "We do not know whether Davis was guilty or not, but his conviction cannot be said to be safe," Hughes concluded."I have pursued this appeal for all these years because I wanted all those people who worked for, and helped, the campaign in the 1970s to know that their support was justified," Davis said.The Civic Parade of Pichilemu took place on Saturday morning, in Daniel Ortúzar Avenue. The event was attended by around 9,000 people. It started with an exhibition of cueca, the Chilean national dance, by winners of communal and regional Cueca championships.All the schools from urban Pichilemu and its rural villages participated in the parade, including La Aguada School, Espinillo Basic School, Cáhuil School, Charly's School, Colegio Preciosa Sangre, Agustín Ross High School, Digna Camilo Aguilar School, and others. Neighborhood councils (such as Infiernillo, presided by Mauricio Vargas), elderly clubs, sport clubs (such as Arturo Prat and Independiente), the Public Safety Agency and the Fire Bureau also participated. The Parade music was performed by Banda Instrumental Pichilemina (Pichileminian Instrumental Band).The parade is part of celebrations marking two hundred years since Chile began the Independence process, that ended in 1818 after Bernardo O'Higgins proclaimed it."This parade shows the power that the Pichileminian people has to stand again [after the February 27 earthquake]," Mayor of Pichilemu Roberto Córdova said. "It is the greatest parade in the History of Pichilemu," he added.The event was broadcast by the local radio stations Entre Olas, Atardecer and Somos Pichilemu. Jorge Vargas González, owner of Radio Somos Pichilemu and former Mayor of the city also attended the event, along with his wife Andrea Aranda, current Councillor.The seemingly eternal flame of the American soap opera Guiding Light has been extinguished. CBS, the network which airs the serial drama in the United States, has announced its cancellation after 72 years.Guiding Light, which entered the Guinness Book of World Records as the longest-running dramatic series in the world, started on radio in 1937 as a series of stories about faith, in which characters beset with troubles would talk to trusted Reverend Ruthledge, the keeper of "the guiding light" which shone from his window. Over the years, the theme of "the guiding light" became more muted and the series shifted focus to a middle-class German immigrant family, the Bauers. The show has been produced on television and seen nearly every weekday since June 30, 1952.Popular with television viewers in the 1950s and 1960s, Guiding Light fell on hard times, becoming the lowest-rated soap opera on American television in 2007. In an effort to save costs last year, Procter & Gamble Productions, the company formerly in charge of production, instituted cost-saving measures which included scrapping more expensive set designs and getting rid of the industry standard three-camera taping technique, replacing them with portable cameras.The cancellation comes in part due to the economic downturn and partly due to viewing habits among women. Many women in the target demographic Guiding Light hoped to court are now working during the afternoon, something that wasn't as prevalent even a generation ago. TeleNext Media, the current production company, while parting ways with CBS, are not ruling out a cost-effective way to keep the show afloat either as an online venture or on another television channel.When contacted by Wikinews, Guiding Light publicist Meredith Tiger forwarded a statement prepared by Barbara Bloom, Senior Vice President of Daytime Programs at CBS. "No show in daytime or prime time, or anytime, has touched so many millions of viewers across so many years as Guiding Light," Bloom said. "We thank the cast, crew and producers – past and present – who delivered this entertainment institution, the beloved characters and the time-honored stories to our audience every day for seven decades. It's been a privilege to work with such an extraordinarily talented group of people."The final episode of Guiding Light is expected to air on Friday, September 18.An event attended by thousands of people, called "Handkerchiefs in the air" (Spanish: Pañuelos al Aire), took place on Monday morning at Pichilemu, in Daniel Ortúzar Avenue. The event was organized by Loreto Puebla, former Governor of {{w|Cardenal Caro Province||, coordinated with Mayor of Pichilemu Roberto Córdova Carreño.Fernando Urzúa, who also works as newsreader on a local radio, conducted the event. The event was broadcasted by Radio Somos Pichilemu (We Are Pichilemu), owned by former Mayor Jorge Vargas González, who also attended the event.The event started by giving handkerchiefs with the logo pictured at the left to all the attendants, at around 11:40 local time (15:40 UTC). Then, they proceeded to take the official photograph, which will be officially published on the website of the Municipality of Pichilemu on Tuesday.Urzúa, and two Pichileminian folk music groups played several cuecas, Chile's national dance, and people were invited to dance. The event ended with the Mayor Córdova giving diplomas and Chilean wine bottles to large families who were dancing, a group of elderly from Recoleta and two policemen of Pichilemu. The parish priest of Pichilemu said that "the celebrations were quite stupendous" and that "Pichilemu is an example of unity of the people."In the United Kingdom, the BBC has received in excess of twenty-one thousand complaints after Jeremy Clarkson, the presenter of BBC television programme Top Gear, made an appearance on the live BBC programme The One Show and made comments about the UK public sector workers on strike, which British trade union UNISON subsequently called "appalling". The BBC and Jeremy Clarkson both apologised after the comments were made. During the programme, Clarkson commented on how the strikes on Wednesday were "fantastic" as they had left the British capital London "empty". It was "like being back in the 70s", according to Clarkson. He went on to caution that "we have to balance this though, because this is the BBC" before saying of the striking public sector workers: "Frankly, I'd have them all shot. I would take them outside and execute them in front of their families. I mean, how dare they go on strike when they have these gilt-edged pensions that are going to be guaranteed while the rest of us have to work for a living?" Immediately after the remarks were made, The One Show presenters clarified that these comments was personal opinion, to which Clarkson replied: "They're not. I've just given two views for you." Presenter Matt Baker apologised about the comments before the end of the broadcast.In the aftermath of the broadcast, by yesterday morning BBC Audience Services were contacted in relation to the matter 21,954 times, with 619 comments and 21,335 complaints amongst them. Clarkson was supported in 314 messages. A spokesperson for the BBC confirmed that the The One Show episode would not be made available to view on BBC iPlayer, the BBC's on-demand service, because the episode generated so many complaints.The British prime minister described the comments as "silly", while saying he was certain that Clarkson "didn't mean it". According to The Guardian, Clarkson had reportedly spoken with the production team before the live broadcast about using strike-related humor. Thursday, the BBC apologised for the comments, as "the item was not perfectly judged", the corporation admitted. In a statement the same day, Clarkson said: "I didn't for a moment intend these remarks to be taken seriously – as I believe is clear if they're seen in context. If the BBC and I have caused any offence, I'm quite happy to apologise for it alongside them." The presenter also clarified to British newspaper the Daily Mirror: "I expressed two different views. Which one do I apologise for? I am just making fun of the BBC's need to be impartial. Not about strikers. I wasn't saying that strikers should be shot."UNISON, a trade union in the United Kingdom, called the comments "appalling" and initially wished for the BBC to remove Clarkson from his position. Karen Jennings, the deputy general secretary of the UNISON, subsequently told the BBC that the trade union "accepted the apology" before going on to say: "He's recognised that he went too far in saying what he said and what we're doing now is extending our hand to him to come and work with a healthcare assistant to see just how they work and the healthcare they deliver. I think he would enjoy that."The Huffington Post reported Friday that U.S. presidential candidate Buddy Roemer received a $25 campaign donation from an individual listed as 'Homer Simpson'; the same name as the main character of the long running animated television series The Simpsons. Along with the name, the donor also shares the cartoon character's place of residence and employment. He claims to live at 742 Evergreen Terrace, and to work as Safety Inspector at Springfield Nuclear Power Plant.The Huff Post discovered the July 31 donation while analyzing Roemer's Federal Election Commission records. After being notified, Roemer's campaign manager, Carlos Sierra, responded "Oh my God. That is too funny".  He added that the campaign uses "one of the best accountants in the business," and that he would personally find out who actually made the donation. Sierra noted that "we do not accept anonymous donations".Roemer, who previously served as a member of the House of Representatives (1981–1988) and Governor of Louisiana (1988–1992), has been running for the Republican Party's presidential nomination since earlier this year. However, he has failed to receive invitations to any presidential debates.Roemer, who recently expressed his support for the Occupy Wall Street protests, has focused his campaign on finance reform, and has limited individual contributions to $100.  In the third quarter of 2011, he raised $138,000. Wikinews contacted Carlos Sierra yesterday for an update on the matter. He explained, "I reached out to the individual and he was very apologetic. I have the correct information now and will turn it over to our compliance officer."English television presenter and variety performer Max Bygraves died Friday at his home in Australia. The comedian, who was born in Rotherhithe in the British capital London, was 89 years old. Johnny Mans, Bygraves' agent, confirmed Bygraves had died as he slept in his home of Hope Island, in the Australian state of Queensland, Friday night."We have lost one of the best entertainers that Britain has ever produced", said Mans, calling his death "a great loss to the entertainment profession and a great loss to all of his friends in the industry."Bygraves, whose catchphrase was "I wanna tell you a story", was born Walter William Bygraves in 1922. He received the first name Max for impersonating Max Miller, another English comedian, while entertaining at the Royal Air Force [RAF]. He became an entertainer there having been prohibiting from joining the RAF for having inadequate eyesight. Bygraves became notable for performing various self-composed comedic songs, as well as for his appearances on the Royal Variety Show. He was at one time the presenter of ITV game show Family Fortunes."He as a person never dated," ex-radio broadcaster Ed Stewart said of Bygraves, who was his friend. "He was a great character with a great sense of humour, a lovely family and it's just a shame that he's gone, but at nearly 90, he had a good run. He was an entertainer through and through." His works provided "a lot of pleasure to a lot of people and were huge sellers," Stewart said.During 2005, Bygraves emigrated to Australia from his UK residence in Bournemouth, in the south west of England. His family reported that he was experiencing the early stages of Alzheimer's disease, a form of dementia, earlier this year. Bygraves is survived by six children, three of whom he conceived with his wife Blossom Murray, whom he married in 1942. Murray died in 2011.After the table tennis event concluded, medalists from the martial art events (taekwondo, karate and judo) were confirmed on the September 8, third match day of "Invitational Games for the Deaf, Taipei 2008."Except for steady performances from the host Chinese Taipei team during the karate and taekwondo events, European athletes battled East Asian (Japan and South Korea) athletes. During the third match day, Korea's Sukchan Yun ever defeated Turkey's Kayaci Ibrahim within only 6 seconds in men's 90.1 kg to 100 kg class. It was the shortest match in the judo event.On the final day, Sept. 10, the top four teams from the soccer event competed for medals, despite bad weather in Taipei.The gold medal match took place between Japan and Thailand. In the 20th minute, Japan's Hisashi Hosomi scored first. But during the added time of the first half, Thailand's Somsak Thongdee tied the game 1-1. After the start of the second half, Thailand straightened their offense, and in the 60th minute, Thailand captain Anothai Sathiyamat scored a goal, which proved to be the game winner. In the bronze medal match between Iran and Australia, Iran defeated Australia with a 8-0 shutout. Mostafa Heydaribondarabadi, Hosseinali Mohammadi Firouzjaei, Mazaher Shirzad Sibani, Hamid Reza Khazaei, all scored in for Iran.After the "Invitational Games for the Deaf, Taipei 2008", Chih-he Chen, President of Asia Pacific Deaf Sports Confederation, presented an honor medal for the soccer tournament during the closing ceremony and hoped the Taipei City Government will show the best service for the 2009 Summer Deaflympics.The 'Invitational Games for the Deaf, Taipei 2008' started yesterday in Taipei, Taiwan. After table tennis and soccer, events from martial arts including karate, judo, and taekwondo were featured mainly in the 2nd matchday. Unlike the taekwondo event which applied a single elimination rule, events from karate and judo applied round robin rules in their competitions.Citizen Kane, a 1941 drama film about a power-hungry newspaper magnate, remains the No. 1 movie on the American Film Institute's 100 Years... 100 Movies list, but for the list's 10th anniversary, there have been many changes.The new list, unveiled in a three-hour broadcast on CBS television in the United States on Wednesday night, contains 23 movies that weren't on the original 1998 list. Of the films that remained on the list, 36 improved their rankings, while 38 fell from their previous ranking.The No. 2 film, The Godfather, moved up from No. 3 on the 1998 listing, trading places with Casablanca.Doctor Zhivago, the former No. 39, was the highest-ranking film to be removed from the list. Of the newcomers, the highest debut was Buster Keaton's 1927 silent, The General at No. 18.Newcomers include Titanic from 1997, The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring from 2001 (the sole 2000s film) and Do the Right Thing from 1989.Of the films already on the list, the most dramatic leap was by John Ford's 1956 western, The Searchers, which rose 84 places from No. 96 to No. 12. Alfred Hitchcock's 1958 thriller Vertigo jumped from 61st to ninth place. Martin Scorsese's 1980 boxing biography, Raging Bull, rocketed from 24th to fourth place.The computer-animated Toy Story joined the list at No. 99, while the 1940 Walt Disney musical cartoon, Fantasia, formerly at No. 58, left the list.Steven Spielberg's 1977 sci-fi drama, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, also left the list, but was replaced by Saving Private Ryan from 1998 at No. 71. Other films leaving the list included Rebel Without a Cause, My Fair Lady, From Here to Eternity and Patton.The most dramatic drop was The African Queen, which fell 48 places from No. 17 to No. 65. At the bottom of the list is Ben-Hur, which fell from No. 72.AFI said it plans revise its list every 10 years in an effort to gauge changing cultural perspectives. The 100 are chosen from a selection of 400 films in a poll of 1,500 Hollywood filmmakers, actors, writers and critics.Mega Millions, a multi-state lottery in the United States is nearing a record high. Friday's August 31 drawing is expected to be at least US$325,000,000. So far, it is the fourth largest jackpot in U.S. history.Twelve states in the U.S. participate in the lottery and the odds of at least one person winning the jackpot are one in 175,711,536. It costs just one dollar to purchase a ticket and if you win, you can receive the winnings in sums of 36,000 for every million won, each year, or receive it all in one lump sum.On Tuesday, the jackpot was only at $250 million and reports say that the jackpot could rise even higher than $325 million just before the drawing on Friday.On March 6, 2007, the Mega Millions jackpot of US$390 million, the highest lottery jackpot ever in the world, was paid out to two individuals who lived in Georgia and New Jersey.The lottery results will be broadcast on live television at 8:00 p.m. (pacific time), 11:00 p.m. (eastern time).In the US's Miss America pageant, Miss New York, Kira Kazantsev, was crowned Miss America 2015 yesterday evening at Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City, New Jersey.The 22-year-old Kazantsev preformed "Happy" by Pharrell Williams, and her platform was Love Shouldn't Hurt. Kazantsev said she was a victim of domestic violence; "It was something that definitely changed me [...] I'm better now and I’m stronger now. I want to show others they can handle it too."As part of the prize Kazantsev received a $50,000 scholarship.The runners-up were Miss Virginia, Courtney Garret; Miss Arkansas, Ashton Campbell; Miss Florida, Victoria Cowen; and Miss Massachusetts, Lauren Kuhn.After two weekends of box office domination, Universal Pictures' Meet the Fockers will be challenged for the top spot by horror film White Noise, also from Universal, which opens in wide release Friday.To be considered in wide release, a film must open or play in at least 1,000 theatres throughout the U.S. and Canada. With Noise being the only new wide release movie for the weekend, it looks to take advantage of movie goers looking from a change from holiday themed film fare.Noise is a come-back attempt for Michael Keaton, who hasn't had a hit movie since 1992's Batman Returns. But according to one critic, this film may not be a comeback hit for Keaton."White Noise never gives skeptics a chance to enjoy the film. I also suspect even believers will be bored," Jack Garner, film critic for Gannet News Service said. Garner's not alone in panning the film. According to web site RottenTomatoes.com, 87 percent of film critics in its survey have given the film a bad review. "The nominal thriller White Noise is worthy neither of Michael Keaton's talents nor even a desperate horror fan's attention," Manohla Dargis, film critic for the New York Times, said.But not all reviews were bad. Hollywood Reporter critic, Kirk Honeycutt said, "Even though logic takes a holiday in White Noise, Geoffrey Sax, a British television director making his theatrical debut, lavishes enough craft on the paranormal thriller to send more than a few chills down the spine."The movie faces stiff competition as five other films have a wider release, playing in more theatres and reaching a larger potential audience. Universal's Meet the Fockers, the sequel to 2000's Meet the Parents is playing in about 1,000 more theatres than Noise and could dominate the box office for a third weekend.'Fockers', starring Ben Stiller, Robert De Niro, Dustin Hoffman and Barbra Streisand, has made $186.5 million since its release Dec. 22, according to Box Office Mojo.Moviegoers who pushed it to No. 1 with a reported $18.1 million take for the weekend ending April 10 at the U.S. and Canadian box office welcomed the premiere of the movie Sahara, starring Matthew McConaughey and Penélope Cruz. Still, the total was $10 million less than Sin City, the top film of the previous week, made in its debut.Sahara is described as an adventure movie with plenty of fun. McConaughey plays a tanned and fit traveler searching for a long lost U.S. Civil War battleship, filled with gold coins, and finds love in the process.Sin City, starring Bruce Willis and Jessica Alba, dropped to second place but was still doing well with a $14.1 million dollar sophomore weekend. Filling out the top shows:  Miss Congeniality 2: Armed and Fabulous, which falls from #5 to #7 with more than $4.1 million "The Pacifier," which drops from #6 to #8 with more than $3 million; The Ring Two,  from #7 to #9 with $2.9 million; and "The Upside of Anger," from #8 to #10 with $2.6 million.Ticket sales at all box offices showed a decline from last year for the same weekend.At the Siggraph 2005 computer graphics convention in Los Angeles, California Tuesday, Star Wars creator George Lucas unveiled plans for a weekly computer-animated series based on the science fiction saga.The new show, to be called Clone Wars, will be a 3-D animated spinoff of the series and is to be produced in a Lucas facility in Singapore. Lucas already has done limited-run 2-D traditional animated television with Star Wars: Clone Wars shorts on the U.S. cable channel, Cartoon Network. Lucas said advances in digital technology allow an animated television series to do what otherwise would be too expensive.New York, New York —On February 12, 2005, at 8:30 a.m., New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg dropped the first piece of fabric in The Gates, a land art project by Christo and Jeanne Claude.The artists installed 7,500 metal "gates" along 23 miles of pathways in New York City's Central Park. Each gate supported a flag-shaped piece of saffron fabric. The project is scheduled to run from Feb. 12, 2005 through Feb. 27, 2005. The project is sometimes referred to as "The Gates, Central Park, New York, 1979-2005" in reference to the time between the artists' initial proposal and the present day.Matthew Wright, host of British television programme The Wright Stuff, has apologised for remarks he made on the show in relation to the murder of Liam Aitchison.On the edition of the Channel 5 programme broadcast on Tuesday, the murder of Liam Aitchison was being examined as part of a newspaper review segment. At this point, Wright said the words "there's been another murder" while using a false Scottish accent, as a reference to the UK television crime drama Taggart. Charlie Baker, who appeared on the panel alongside Wright, remarked that the investigation into Aitchison's death would be like "the longest episode of Taggart of all time". The audience can be heard to be laughing at this point. "There's a lot of downtime in between," Baker continued.In the statement, the family of Liam Aitchison found what they called the "insensitive and offensive nature of the comments made" to be "very upsetting and insulting for, not just the family, but for the whole community of the Western Isles." On the website for The Wright Stuff, Liam Aitchison's father Norman wrote a comment which read: "Would your panel members be making a joke of this if it was one of their own children? My son's death is no joke and I am disgusted with every single one of you on that panel. Let my son rest in peace".On the edition of The Wright Stuff broadcast yesterday, Wright said he would "like to apologise" if any viewers had been offended by his comments. "Certainly, no intention on my part to belittle the seriousness, or the tragedy of this story, or to offend anyone who knew Liam," Wright clarified. "You know me, I have been touched by death too many times to belittle anything like that." Channel 5 believe that Wright had made his apology "clear", according to a spokeswoman for the channel. However, Wright mentioned that he had "[n]ot [been] helped by people running campaigns 'report Matthew Wright to Ofcom'," a UK media regulator. He advised such people to "grow up".Channel 5 subsequently revoked access to Tuesday's episode of The Wright Stuff from its on demand service. The comments have also been removed from their website.Angus MacNeil, the MP for Na h-Eileanan an Iar, described the behaviour of Wright as "beyond belief" and told of his intention to complain to Ofcom. The comments "disgusted everyone," MacNeil said. Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, a local authority within the islands, has complained to Ofcom. A page on the social networking website Facebook, entitled 'Report The Wright Stuff to Ofcom', has attracted in excess of two thousand likes. Ofcom is currently "in the process of assessing those complaints", according to a spokesperson. As of yet, the regulator has not "made any decision to investigate those complaints at this stage", although the concept of an investigation is currently a possibility.Earlier this month, the Northern Constabulary, which has not made any statement regarding this matter, launched a murder inquiry in the aftermath of Liam Aitchison's death, having considered his death to be as the result of a murder following an autopsy. He was last sighted in the town of Stornoway on November 22 of this year. His remains were found in an abandoned building in Steinish on November 29.Since winning the reality television series America's Next Top Model in December 2006, CariDee English, a small-town girl from Fargo, North Dakota, was plucked from relative obscurity to be the new look for CoverGirl Cosmetics, the newest fresh face on the cover of Seventeen, and affiliated with the largest modeling agency in the world, Elite Model Management. However, she feels her greatest accomplishment is being the spokeswoman for the National Psoriasis Foundation, in which she is a motivational speaker and gives encouragement to psoriasis sufferers. CariDee has even lobbied in Congress for the passage of a bill which would ask the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Institute of Medicine to increase spending on finding a cure for psoriasis. You can read more about her role with the National Psoriasis Foundation here.Wikinews reporter Mike Halterman sat down and talked with CariDee earlier in the week to discuss her own issues with psoriasis, how she has helped other sufferers in her role as spokeswoman for the Foundation, as well as what it's like to be a new model in New York City and her thoughts on how the fashion industry operates today.This is the second in a series of articles with America's Next Top Model contestants. Articles will be published sporadically.Jaslene Gonzalez is not your typical model. She rose to fame after winning Cycle 8 of America's Next Top Model, and since then, has been aggressively tapping into the fashion industry.  As a result of her  Latin background, Gonzalez has been successful at marketing herself both in the English-speaking and Spanish-speaking worlds. However, Gonzalez is much much more – a fighter, a humanitarian, and a good Latin granddaughter. Born in Chicago to a Latina mother, and a Puerto Rican-born father, Gonzalez had, in many ways, a typical U.S. Latino experience – her tight knit family, grandparents, and spirituality played an intrinsic part in her upbringing.  "I went to an all-girl Catholic school and grew up with tons of family.....My family was very close knit and supportive. They were involved in my life everyday. So there was so much joy in every little occasion.....Every Sunday we would go to my grandmother's house where we [the family] would hang out together....We enjoyed being around each other and being together," states Gonzalez. Her grandfather was the director of a local dance group, Viva La Gente, which Gonzalez credits with impacting her life positively. "I was a dancer for 12 years and life revolved around dancing. I was a very active girl, and was always involved  with my grandfather's dance studio. The whole family was. My aunts, my cousins – everyone took part in performances and were involved in the group...That's how we spent our summers, and we looked forward to being outside, dancing salsa, hip hop, merengue," states Gonzalez. Through her involvement in the dance studio, Gonzalez's horizon was broadened significantly, and her humanitarian streak began to deepen. "We were always constantly traveling. We traveled to Mexico to poor villages where we gave performances to give back to the community," said Gonzalez. Ironically, ANTM gave her the opportunity to overcome her own difficulties and to further help those in need. "I went in there, without knowing that I was in an abusive relationship. They were the ones that brought that up to me...they felt I was emotionally destroyed, they wanted me to get support," commented Gonzalez. While the ANTM staff was supportive, she also credits her life long dream for helping her get out of the abusive relationship. "Having a dream and having a goal in life, is the most important thing I did in my life. Because of that I maneuvered  my way to that dream. I knew I was better than that, I wanted to be happier,” stated Gonzalez. Soon after winning ANTM, Gonzalez became a spokesperson for Liz Claiborne and the National Domestic Violence Hotline, and began traveling the country reaching out to women. "We had several meetings, and they asked me to be a spokesperson. I was so happy and blessed to help women, to have that title. It's something I want to do, besides modelling....I enjoy sharing my personal experiences because I can educate them, but I can also save someone's life. It's something precious, it's a gift," stated Gonzalez. Abuse is not the only obstacle Jaslene has had to face. Growing up Latina had its own set of difficulties. "Being a minority is a challenge no matter what," states Gonzalez. However, Gonzalez also states that being a Latina has many positive aspects in regards to her profession. "As a Latina, you have the advantage of being a Latina. Not only do you have this corporate job, but you can relate to many groups as a person."When asked if the fashion industry forces Latina models to change certain aspects about themselves, she remarks that she focuses on always staying true to herself. "Modeling is a difficult job because of what you go through. 80% of the time it's a no...When I go in, I go in like me, I don't have to change anything. Any time I get a chance to show who I am, I do. I am a Spanish girl, trying to pursue my dreams. I try to be the best I can be," remarked Gonzalez. It is that same confidence and will to succeed that she seems to appreciate in other woman. "I find women beautiful. I find a girl with no makeup, not worrying about her style and appearance, I find that sexy. I find confidence beautiful...Its so simple. It's being natural and confident," said Gonzalez.  As a role model, she has two key pieces advice that she offers women: nurture your mind with positive thoughts, and identify and foster the principles in life you value. It is not surprising to see why Gonzalez's family is proud of her. "My family is so funny. They are so happy. I've never seen them so full of life. My mom acts like she won. My grandmother screams 'mi flaca' every time she sees me. They are so proud. Especially my grandparents. I was practically raised by them. To see them see you so happy and successful, there couldn't be a better feeling," said Gonzalez. She adds that her grandparents would be extremely happy if she appeared on Cristina, the Spanish-language talk show whose host is referred to as "the Spanish Oprah Winfrey."In the coming years, Gonzalez plans to continue on the path she is on. She wants to continue gracing magazine covers, as well as dedicating herself to helping young teens develop self growth and esteem. "Every time I wake up, God gives me the opportunity to be a better me...Life gets better as it goes by."This is the third in a series of articles with America's Next Top Model contestants.As the World Turns, the longest-running soap opera on American television, was canceled Tuesday by CBS, the network which has aired the show since its first episode in 1956. This news comes just three months after the ending of Guiding Light, formerly the longest-running soap in radio and television history, which had entertained generations of Americans for seven decades.In the announcement, Barbara Bloom, senior vice president of daytime programing at CBS, wrote, "It's extremely difficult to say good-bye to a long-running series that's been close to our hearts for so long...The almanacs will show As the World Turns as a pioneer of the format, a hallmark for quality with its numerous Emmys, the launching pad for many television and film stars and a daytime ratings powerhouse for parts of three decades."The cancellation comes at a particularly bad time not only for the people involved with producing the soap, but also for the soap opera industry in general. With the cancellation announcement, the number of daytime soap operas on the air in the United States will shrink from seven to six. By comparison, there were 12 soap operas on the air in 1997 and 19 in 1973. While the revelation may have hurt, it was not entirely a surprise. The ratings for the soap opera have fallen to 2.5 million viewers, over 60% from 1993, when the show was watched by 6.5 million viewers daily. Soap Opera Digest editorial director Lynn Leahey said not to call for the death of the genre; its next act may prove more profitable on the Internet. "It has to be turned into a business model. I do think there's huge potential there. I think if we can deliver the content where people are instead of expecting them to sit in front of their TVs, there's hope," Leahey said.The news was taken particularly hard at As the World Turns' Brooklyn studios, where the building was closed off to press on Tuesday. "We are disappointed and saddened by the news that the show is not being renewed. It will certainly be a loss for all of us, and for the show's loyal audience," said executive producer Christopher Goutman in a prepared statement. "It's a hell of a Christmas present," said actress Eileen Fulton, whose spitfire character Lisa was an integral part of the canvas in the show's top-rated years in the 1960s and 1970s. "I'm just very sad. I'm sad for all of the people who work out there in Brooklyn. We're a family. I hate to be split up. It's like a divorce."The series, which focuses on the lives, loves and torments in the small Midwestern town of Oakdale, will have a nine-month swan song; the final episode will not be airing until September 2010. Until that time, Procter & Gamble's TeleNext Media will be trying to find a new home for the show, either on another television network or online. If As the World Turns leaves the air entirely, Procter & Gamble, the company which coined the term "soap opera," will officially end its 76-year partnership between its cleaning products and the dramatic medium.Friday, a song by US teen singer Rebecca Black, has gone viral after the song's music video was uploaded onto video sharing website YouTube. The video has attracted over thirty-five million views since its February 10 upload — and critics think it could be the world's worst. Ark Music Factory produced the song and video, using US$2,000 (£1,223, C$1,964, €1,412) from Black's mother. Friday's video was shot at Black's father's house, with her family and friends as extras. The song beat an alternative track when choosing what to record.The single is climbing up the iTunes singles chart in the United Kingdom and the United States, gaining a higher position in the US than Canadian singer Justin Bieber.Despite the song's popularity, it has received a largely negative reception. According to Newsbeat, critics have cited Friday as being "the worst song of all time." On YouTube, the video attracted approximately thirty-six thousand 'likes' versus over 314,000 'dislikes'. The song itself has been ridiculed for its lyrics and criticised for its use of Auto-Tune.Feeling "like [she was] being cyber-bullied," Rebecca Black said "[w]hen I first saw all these nasty comments I thought this is all my fault, ... this was all because of me." Black says of "[t]hose hurtful comments", the worst was "I hope you cut yourself and I hope you get an eating disorder so you look pretty. I hope you cut and die." Clarence Jey, of Ark Music Factory, offered to take the video off YouTube, but Black declined.In contrast, British music executive Simon Cowell has expressed a positive interest in Rebecca Black. "I love her and the fact she's gotten so much publicity," Cowell commented. "People are so upset about the song, but I think it's hysterical. I want to meet her. Anyone who can create this much controversy within a week, I want to meet. I love people like that."Rebecca Black herself wants to record a duet with Justin Bieber. "I have Bieber fever — I am in love with Justin Bieber," Black commented. The teenager said it "would be unbelievable and make my life".A crowd of approximately 1 million has welcomed the new year in Sydney overnight. Many of the crowd had camped out since 6 AM AEDT (7PM UTC) to ensure they had the best vantage point for the fireworks displays at 9 PM and 12 AM. Earlier predictions of rain failed to dampen enthusiastic revellers and fortunately did not eventuate.According to police, vantage points were Circular Quay and Sydney Opera House closed around 7 PM.This year's theme was "A diamond night in Emerald City" and celebrated the Sydney Harbour Bridge's diamond anniversary of 75 years which will fall in March.As usual, the bridge became the centre piece of Sydney's celebrations with a question mark turning into a coat hanger during the 9 PM fireworks show before a diamond appeared at 11 PM.Entertainment was held in the city throughout the day, culminating in a spectacular fireworks display at midnight. Revellers counted down the final seconds of 2006 with numbers on the side of the Sydney Harbour Bridge.The festivities are estimated to have cost AUD $4 million and organisers claim their fireworks display is "the largest in the world". Sydney's celebrations were broadcast on television live around the world as other countries prepared their New Year's Eve celebrations.Despite the large crowd, police made only 58 arrests for offences including offensive conduct, stealing, assaulting police, goods in custody, assault, drink driving and affray.Ambulance officers were called to 1,139 incidents in Sydney with another 900 in country areas.Ten billion songs have been downloaded from the iTunes Store, an online digital media store which is owned by Apple Incorporated. Louie Sulcer, of Woodstock in Georgia, downloaded "Guess Things Happen That Way" by American musician, Johnny Cash, which became the ten billionth song downloaded from iTunes. Sulcer won an iTunes gift card worth US$10,000 (approximately £6,550 or €7,380), after purchasing a song on the iTunes Store to win the prize.Beforehand, Apple had launched a competition entitled "Countdown to 10 Billion Song Downloads", where the person to make the ten billionth "entry" of a song from the iTunes Store would win the gift card. An "entry" could be created by either downloading a song from the iTunes store, or by filling in a form on the Apple website. The rules of the competition stated that "the downloading of the 10 billionth song is considered to be either the downloading of the 10 billionth song from iTunes or the receipt of the non-purchase entry after the download of the 9,999,999,999th song, whichever comes first." Below is a table of the twenty most downloaded songs of all time from Apple's iTunes Store. The list was initially placed on the website.The ten billionth update, or "tweet", has been uploaded to Twitter, a social networking website. The statistic was reported by GigaTweet, a group that keeps archives in relation to Twitter messages. The update was placed onto Twitter at approximately 0100 GMT on Thursday.The identity of the user who placed the ten billionth "tweet" on the website and the message itself cannot be discovered due to the fact that the update was uploaded from a protected profile. A protected profile is a profile which cannot be viewed by all internet users.Twitter was first launched in March 2006. The first message to be sent onto Twitter read out: "just setting up my twttr". The website reached its billionth "tweet" in November 2008 and its five billionth in November 2009. GigaTweet have predicted that the twenty billionth update will be put onto the website by October 2010.A protest against the Church of Scientology organized by the Internet-based group "Anonymous" held in Orlando, Florida drew 100 people on Saturday.The group "Anonymous" formed a movement called Project Chanology in response to what it views as suppression of freedom of speech on the Internet by the Church of Scientology. The group was initially motivated by the Church of Scientology's attempts to remove a promotional video featuring Scientologist Tom Cruise from the Internet. The Church of Scientology issued legal complaints to YouTube and to Gawker.com; YouTube took the video down, but Gawker has refused to do so.Project Chanology participants successfully took down several Scientology websites in mid-January utilizing denial-of-service attacks. The group has organized a series of nonviolent protests to take place outside Church of Scientology centers worldwide on February 10, 2008. There are expected to be at least 217 protests taking place on the 10th outside Church of Scientology buildings around the globe, including New York City, Montreal, Houston, London, Melbourne, and Los Angeles.Protestors at the Orlando, Florida rally held signs with messages including "Knowledge is Free Scientology Isn't", "Who Is Lisa McPherson?", "www.xenu.net", and "Honk if you hate Scientology." An unnamed organizer of the rally told the Orlando Sentinel that the group is protesting "a gross violation of the right to see free church material," referring to the Tom Cruise video the Church of Scientology attempted to suppress. According to WKMG-TV, protestors claim the Church of Scientology is a "dangerous cult" and said the organization is responsible for crimes and deaths. Dr. Lee Sheldon of the Church of Scientology of Orlando released a statement regarding the protests: "While we recognize the right to legal protest, when such protest escalates to spreading lies and hate speech, it is a concern for everyone. We look forward to continuing to provide service to the city of Orlando and Central Florida." According to a post from a protestor to the online newsgroup alt.religion.scientology, Scientologists complained to the police during the protest that the event should be shut down for advocating "hate speech", but the Orlando Sentinel reported that police monitored the event and made no arrests.Mark Bunker of XenuTV.com had previously criticized Project Chanology for the denial-of-service attacks against Scientology websites, but in a YouTube video post on Sunday, Bunker spoke positively of Saturday's nonviolent protest in Florida. "I saw a video today from Orlando and there were a hundred and fifty people out on Saturday to protest and it looked like a lot of fun. Got a lot of car honks and everything looked peaceful and I want to say nice job and I hope everything goes as smoothly on February 10th. I have to say a hundred and fifty people in Orlando that's pretty impressive. Can't wait to see what happens at other cities around the country and around the world actually."The 100th annual East Texas State Fair opened in the city of Tyler, Texas yesterday.Equipment for rides and attractions for the fair began arriving at the fairgrounds earlier in the week. Several food vendors and artisans were also setting up their displays as early as Monday. The event is a highly publicised mainstay in the city of Tyler. Several days are built around specific themes. Yesterday was 'Senior Day', which marks its 48th year at the fair. A large faux cake, assembled from tables, fabric, and other decorations, was set to be unveiled yesterday, commemorating the fair's 100th anniversary. Earlier in the week police issued a traffic advisory due to expected pedestrian traffic near the fair's front entrance.An array of shows and exhibits are expected to be featured this year. Kristen Johnson, often known as the 'Lady Houdini', is to perform escapes from a water torture cell. A giant sand sculpture is also located just inside the front gate. The sculpture is built by husband and wife team, Gregg and Brandi Glenn, from San Luis Obispo, California.Approximately 13,000 people in the British city of  Bristol participated in either the Race for Life or the Run for Moore this weekend as part of one of the largest running events in the south west of England.The first of the day, the woman only Race for Life, started at 11:00 local time (10:00 UTC. This continues on from yesterday, where other woman competed in the Race for Life.The quickest finishing time for the event was around 20 minutes for the five kilometer race, with the slowest time being over an hour.Later in the day, at approximately 14:00 local time, the warm up for the mens event started. It was lead by people on the temporary stage (pictured).At 14:30, the mens event started. The finishing times for this event varied from about 20 minutes to approximately 50 minutes.Before the warm up participants were shown a video showing the effects of cancer. The run is in aid of Cancer Research UK.The 2013 Beverly Hills Film Festival is set to open on Wednesday. The event will feature multiple independently produced films and screenplays. 130 screenplays have been listed as finalists in the Screenplays category. The festival spans five days, ending on May 13th. Numerous films will be screened at the festival, including the short film, Byron's Theme. Other films include A Thousand Kisses Deep, and A White Mule. Screenwriter and indie film producer, Kara Rainer's story entitled RORRIM was selected as a finalist in the screenplay category. Rainer told Wikinews, "...I am thrilled that RORRIM was picked with so many [screenplays] being selected." Rainer's story revolves largely around an old hand mirror she discovered while attending an estate sale in Dallas, Texas. In 2012, the festival opened with the film, The Black Tulip, a film shot entirely in Afghanistan. That film ultimately won multiple awards at that year's festival, including Best Producer and Best Actor. Previous festival attendees reads like a 'Who's Who' in Hollywood: Martin Landua, Danny Devito and Doris Roberts, among many others. The festival will be featured at the historic Chinese 6 Theatres on Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California.A 16-year-old male from Novato, California has been arrested in Tennessee over allegations he intended to hijack a commercial passenger airliner in the United States. The boy, who was unnamed due to his age, was a passenger on board Southwest Airlines Flight 284 from Los Angeles to Nashville on Tuesday, with his parents reporting him missing at 11:30 am the same day. Although he remained calm throughout the flight and made no hijacking attempt, authorities report he had handcuffs, duct tape and yarn inside the aircraft cabin with him. Although his arrest was only made public on Friday, it is reported that he was detained immediately on reaching Nashville International Airport.George Bolds, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said that the items were "suspicious" and that the boy had informed the FBI he had indeed intended to hijack the aircraft. An FBI agent told reporters that he felt the plot was ill-conceived, saying "His plan had a low probability of success."The FBI also conducted a search of his home on Thursday, finding in his room "a photograph of the inside of a small aircraft, something you'd find in a bookstore."Subsequent to his arrest he pled guilty on Friday to a "delinquent act," according to local officials. A juvenile court judge ordered him to be returned to California for continued perusal of that charge as well as others set to be made. He is currently in Davidson County Juvenile Detention Center in Nashville.Authorities believe that the teen was suicidal, but the FBI dismissed earlier reports alleging that he intended to crash the airliner into a Hannah Montana concert in Lafayette, Louisiana.The 18th International Guitar Festival of Great Britain has been running on the Wirral since 10/11/2006 and continues until 30/11/2006Guitarists covering early and classical periods to jazz, rock, pop and extreme electronics. The concerts take place across Wirral in pubs, theatres, warehouses and concert halls.Pacific Road Arts Centre, Birkenhead, Wirral, Merseyside.Terry Knutsen, who performed under the name Terry Teen during the 1960s, died on Friday evening after life support systems were removed, according to sources close to the artist. Mr. Knutsen was seriously injured on Wednesday evening, while riding his bicycle along the outskirts of Tyler, Texas, United States.Doctors immediately classified Mr. Knutsen's condition as 'critical' upon his arrival at the hospital, and further stated that he never achieved notable brain activity while hospitalized. Reports indicate that Mr. Knutsen struck a tow truck while he rode his bicycle along Highway 110 along the outskirts of Tyler, Texas on Wednesday evening. A passerby describes seeing "...a smashed up bicycle covered in...plastic bags and...a yellow raincoat..." lying at the scene of the accident. Mr. Knutsen achieved some notoriety for his novelty song Curse of the Hearse, which was a staple for many years on Doctor Demento's annual Halloween radio program. Before his death, Mr. Knutsen had performed for many years throughout Texas as a professional clown. He made a brief (uncredited) appearance many years ago on one episode of the hit television show In Living Color. Sources indicate he also had minor roles in various films.A memorial service is planned for Monday evening at 7:00pm local time (CDT).At least 20 people were injured when a covered stand collapsed during a main parade in the Carnival of Blacks and Whites in the Colombian city of Pasto.According to the police, the stands were designed to support 500 people, but there were 700 on them. The intense rains might have also contributed to the collapse as the tents had become too heavy.The Red Cross immediately helped all those affected. Most people presented minor injures although 3 people had to be referred to medical assistance centers.Despite the incident the parade continued along the main streets of the city.Today, Chinese Wiki Conference 2006 (CWC2006) organized by Cnic.org, a wikipedia-like wiki site, will be held in Shanghai. Those approximately 80 participants discussed in the municipal library Schanghais the future of the Wikis and tried to give to the movement in China new wind.The Chinese Wiki Conference, the first such meet for Chinese Wikiers, aims to explore the further growth of Chinese wiki, and to provide a forum facilitating deeper exchanges among Chinese wikiers. (from CWC2006 English page)The European Union Individual Chess Championships are underway in Liverpool, England. They are being staged at the World Museum Liverpool on William Brown Street from Wednesday 6th September to Friday 15th September 2006.More the 250,000 people viewed the first day's games online, more than attended the City's recent Mathew Street Festival.After 8 rounds the top 5 was.1 Stephen J. Gordon2 Luke McShane3 Nigel Short4 Sarunas Sulskis5 Simon K WilliamsMonday, March 6, 2006 The 78th Academy Awards were hosted by Jon Stewart, host of Comedy Central's The Daily Show.Crash won the Best Picture award, a surprise for many predictors. Co-producer Cathy Schulman commented "[thank you for] embracing our film, about love and about tolerance, about truth. Thank you to the people all around the world who have been touched by this message. And we are humbled by the other nominees in this category. You have made this year one of the most breathtaking, and stunning, maverick years in American cinema, thank you."Paul Haggis and Bobby Moresco also won best original screenplay for Crash.Directed and co-produced by Canadian Paul Haggis, film distribution rights were purchased for just USD$3 million by Lions Gate Films. Noted film critic Roger Ebert called it his favourite picture of 2005, and the picture made many North American "10 best" lists.Backstage, Best Director winner Ang Lee commented to the press on how Brokeback Mountain refreshed his will to direct. "Before I get into making this movie, I was very tired from two very ambitious work, The Hulk and Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. I almost wanted to retire. I felt I had enough, I hit the bottom, sort of like my mid life crisis or something, and this movie teach me how to look at myself, how to manage myself in movie making again, enjoying making them, and the movie was shot very simple, nothing special, but most important, it taught me again, it's about human emotions, drama and acting."Foreign Language Film winner Gavin Hood (Tsotsi) commented that he felt the Oscar win would "change the way South Africans view their moviemaking... hopefully it means that people will keep investing in our local stories, because this gives investors a little more confidence and what we want more than anything else is that people and human emotion is universal and we're more alike than we think we are around the world... we're actually so similar as human beings inside."Tsotsi was the People's Choice Award winner at the 2005 Toronto International Film Festival, while Crash debuted at the fest in 2004. Capote and Brokeback Mountain both played at the festival days after debuting at the Telluride Film Festival. TIFF's winners often go on to win Best Picture or Best Foreign Language Film; Wo hu cang long (Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon), American Beauty, and Whale Rider are such examples.Stewart's humor fell short of expectation for most North American film and television critics who commented on the broadcast.At one point, Stewart jokingly chastised Hollywood for being "out of touch" with mainstream American values. Actor George Clooney later responded to this notion, saying, "We are a little bit out of touch in Hollywood. It’s probably a good thing. We’re the ones that talked about AIDS when it was just being whispered. And we talked about civil rights when it wasn’t really popular. We bring up subjects. This group of people gave Hattie McDaniel an Oscar in 1939 when blacks were still sitting in the backs of theaters. I’m proud of this Academy, of this community. I’m proud to be out of touch."Brooklyn Borough Hall featured a Who's Who in New York's literary community during the second annual Brooklyn Book Festival.  According to Brooklyn Borough President Marty Markowitz, the borough's zip code 11215 boasts more authors than anywhere else in the country.  It appeared to be the case on Sunday.  More than 100 authors were featured at the day-long event, including The Basketball Diaries writer Jim Carroll, former M*A*S*H star Mike Farrell, author and illustrator Mo Willems, Jack Kerouac's sometime lover and National Book Critics Circle Award recipient Joyce Johnson and PEN American Center President Francine Prose.  This year's festival made use of Saint Francis College and the Brooklyn Historical Society to accommodate the big jump over last year's 70 authors in participation to 115 this year.  Although there is no official way to keep track of the numbers of attendees, Borough Hall officials estimated between 15,000 and 20,000 people attended. Markowitz spoke with NY1's Inside City Hall host Dominic Carter, who shared stories of his childhood abuse.  A lone protester from Develop Don't Destroy, the group against the development of Brooklyn's Atlantic Yards, held up a sign decrying Markowitz's support for the project.A highlight of the festival was recent Heinz Family Foundation award recipient Dave Eggers discussing with Nigerian poet Chris Abani a slide show of Eggers's trip to Marial Bai, Sudan.  Eggers wrote a fictional account of the life of Valentino Achak Deng, one of the Lost Boys of Sudan.  The book, What Is the What, was a critical success.  One of the featured panels on "soon-to-be-published works of groundbreaking authors" that included Jim Carroll, The Women of Brewster Place author Gloria Naylor and playwright and music journalist Joe Meno, ran into problems.  The panel was the final program and started half an hour late.  Naylor failed to show, reportedly due to a death in the family.  In the middle of Carroll's presentation he was asked to stop speaking so they could close the courtroom where the event was held in the Borough Hall.  Carroll was visibly upset.  He asked the audience if they wanted to hear one song, to which they enthusiastically cheered until the festival organizers cut off his microphone to keep to a schedule that required they vacate the premises by a certain time.Steven Carter and Bernice McFadden also failed to attend; McFadden stated on her blog that she came down with a stomach illness.  The Brooklyn Book Festival had no comment.Wednesday morning, the Frankfurt Book Fair opened its gates to the first of an estimated 280,000 visitors this year in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The Frankfurt Book Fair is the biggest book fair in the world. It also organises the participation of German publishers at more than 25 international book fairs and is the co-founder of the Cape Town Book Fair in South Africa. It maintains the most visited website worldwide for the publishing industry.The German Publishers & Booksellers Association, which runs the Frankfurt Book Fair, says that the book market is thriving. It declared on Tuesday that the high number of exhibitors and the record numbers of 7,448 exhibitors from over 100 countries, showing 391,652 books, including 121,267 new books of this year, proves that the book market is thriving.Publishing houses have long since expanded into non-traditional markets. TV and merchandising rights have long played a role, but have become more and more important for larger projects. Two other media forms have also become more standard elements of the value chain. E-books and audiobooks are both big topics of this year's Book Fair.On the final day of 2007 HiNet, WCG, and WGT 3-in-1 Taiwan Gaming Athletes Qualification, an intensive gaming competition risen up from last night during the finales of three Xbox360 Gaming Group and three PC Gaming Group took place.The first Taiwanese National Athlete was decided at the final of "Gears of War" Team Competitions, in the "best of seven series" rule, L bracket winner Z.A.C.K Team won W bracket winner SWPP Team with 4-1 sets at L bracket challenge, after the L bracket challenge, the organizer held an extra match, and Z.A.C.K. Team won again with 3-1 sets and became the Champion.In the final of Xbox360 "Dead or Alive 4" Group, former champions competed at semi-finals, Cheng-kang Tu risen up and finally won the champion with a three-straight-sets and roared "I've been waited for a long time!" to express his anticipation for participating WCG Global Final; and You-cheng Liu won "Project Gotham Racing 3" champion to fulfill the hope of his father who died two days ago.Not only in Xbox360 Groups, but also in PC Gaming Groups have a brand new lineup, Ming-kuei Liu, Yong-shan Liang, Jun-nan Tsai, and Taiwan UMX Team separately won the championships and Taiwanese Delegates at "Need for Speed - Carbon", "WarCraft", "Age of Empires 3", and "Counter Strike" Groups.After the main events, Chunghua Telecom announced that the HiNet, WCG, and WGT Gaming Competitions will hold unity at 2008 autumn.With resource reusing, environmental awareness, and creations, Jane Goodall Institute Taiwan held "2007 Hope Parade" in Taiwan and lots of environmental volunteers, community colleges, and charity organizations (approximately more than 10,000 people) participated this parade walking from Taipei Municipal Hsing-an Elementary School to Ketagalan Boulevard with some materials showing the presence of five continentals."To respond with theory of 'Roots & Shoots' by Dr. Jane Goodall, 'Roots & Shoots Program' in Taiwan has been promoted for a long time with the living quality improving and environment awareness valuing." Hau Lung-pin (Taipei City Mayor) remarked at Opening.According to the organizer, this parade is originally founded with some communities in Xizhi, Taipei County. To expand the global view of environment respect, this parade is chosen at Taipei City to show the particularity and differences of creatures which should be cared by common people.MuchMusic announced the nominees for their MMVA People's Choice awards today. In their 18th year, the MuchMusic Video Awards (MMVAs) have always had categories open to public voting. Simple Plan holds the record for number of People's Choice wins, with four.Viewers can watch all the videos on MuchAXS, muchmusic.com's "viewer-controlled broadband community." From there, viewers can either vote online at muchmusic.com, or text "MMVA" to 299299 to vote on their phone (Canada only).Favourite Canadian Artist:Avril Lavigne / "Girlfriend"City and Colour / "Comin' Home"George / "Talk To Me"k-os / "Sunday Morning"Nelly Furtado / "Say It Right"Favourite International Artist:Akon / "Smack That"Fergie / "Fergalicious"Gwen Stefani / "The Sweet Escape"Hilary Duff / "With Love"Justin Timberlake / "SexyBack"Favourite Canadian Group:Alexisonfire / "This Could Be Anywhere In The World"Billy Talent / "Devil In A Midnight Mass"Hedley / "Gunnin'"Nickelback / "Far Away"Three Days Grace / "Pain"Favourite International Group:Evanescence / "Call Me When You're Sober"The Killers / "When You Were Young"My Chemical Romance / "Welcome To The Black Parade"Pussycat Dolls / "Buttons"Red Hot Chili Peppers / "Dani California"After "Taiwan Flower Tourist Train" started at Kaohsiung Station on Oct. 30, the main show - 2007 Taipei International Flower Exhibition (2007 TIFE), supervised by Council of Agriculture, Executive Yuan, R.O.C. (COA Taiwan) and organized by Taiwan Floriculture Development Association (TFDA), opened from yesterday (Oct. 31) at Taipei World Trade Center Exhibition Hall (TWTC). This show had more than 200 participating companies and organizations exhibiting products, solutions, and international specialists in flower industry.At the opening ceremony yesterday, Chia-chuan Su (Commissioner of COA Taiwan) encouraged the export market in Taiwan's flower industry and mentioned applications on arts and cultural decorations. "After 12 years' suspension and Taiwan Orchid Exhibition held in Tainan several months ago, This show (TIFE) finally located at TWTC and gathered flower industry and application companies in several countries including Taiwan. We (organizers) also set a special pavilion for orchids to promote 2008 Taiwan Orchid Exhibition, if we successfully hold this exhibition, we'll expand exhibition space next year.""Taiwan had some unique creations and diversifications especially flower seeds and materials in the flower industry, with those conditions above, the good quality and its excellence can be shown in its industry in Taiwan." Shui-bian Chen (President of Republic of China, Taiwan) remarked at Opening Ceremony.In the international pavilions, some of participants like the Netherlands, Japan, Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, and Australia showed their own style with booth decoration, national culture, and unique products like planting. By the way, TFDA will invite entertainer from 1st season "Taiwan Million Star" finalist Judy Ting-wei Chou and zodiac professional in Taiwan Yung-heng "the Zodiac Sign Prince" Yen for the "Stage of Floral Show Zone" performances separately on Nov. 2 & 3 with night hours.According to TFDA, 2007 TIFE is a professional trade show in the flower industry, the opening day is only available for trade and industrial visitors and medias, public people should enter with tickets on next four days from today. And night hours will be available on Nov. 2 & 3. With security and quality issue, minors under 120 cm aren't permitted to enter the showground.The Taipei International Travel Fair (Taipei TVF), founded in 1987 by Taiwan Visitors Association (TVA), is now in its 15th year. This show will start on December 14 and be open through December 17 at the Taipei World Trade Center with participants from 62 countries and 861 tourism companies and organizations. This year's fair is larger than ever.At the press conference yesterday, TVA invited some exhibitors including Taiwan, as well as countries from Southeast Asia, Europe, and Oceania to promote their traveling packs for media. The TVA recruited local citizen journalists to cover the event, which they also did last year, and awarded honorary press accreditions for the selected 16 nominees.Before the press conference, Wikinews reporter Rico Shen had a brief interview with Honorary Chairman of TVA Stanley Chang-shou Yen about their policy on citizen journalism. Stanley said:Besides of some traditional displays by exhibitors at the press conference, Cross-Strait Tourism Exchange Association also introduced the tourism industry of China at this conference.  With the 2008 Summer Olympics to be held in Beijing, the Cross-Strait Pavilion of Taipei ITF will be a focus of the media in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and China.2007 Taipei International Travel Fair (Taipei ITF), supported by governments with new premiums promoted by Executive Yuan in the future, started with a great new scale at December 14 to 17. In the opening morning yesterday, governmental people and ambassadors from several countries including Taiwan successively visited this show.The show organizer, Taiwan Visitors Association (TVA), held 2 opening ceremonies for Cross-Strait Pavilion and the main show. In the side of Cross-Strait, several teams performed traditional entertainment shows like "Bian Lian" (Face-Changing) and Martial Arts of Shaolin Monastery (In Chinese: Shaolin Kungfu) successively at press conference and welcome reception yesterday and opening ceremony today. Participants from China and Taiwan hoped the relation from Cross-Strait can be improved with tourism industry.In the main opening ceremony, Premier of the Republic of China Chun-hsiung Chang not only announced the premiums of "2008-2009 Visit Taiwan Year" but also said: "We (the Executive Yuan) will still encourage foreign visitors visit Taiwan and also provide premiums for groups with a charter airline. with our '2008-2009 Visit Taiwan Year' in the future".Not only Chun-hsiung Chang, Minister of Transportation and Communications Duei Tsai, Commissioner of Tourism Bureau of MOTC Janice Lai, and the current President of Palau Thomas Esang Remengesau, Jr. visited this show. Governments in several divisions participated in this show to showcase traditional cultures from several divisions with unlimited potentials on tourism industry in Taiwan.Although the 2007 Taipei IT Month closed last Sunday (December 9), it attracted more than 750,000 people to visit the show, but it exposed some problems especially on the traffic factor.Generally on weekdays (December 3-7), the traffic jam at Shi-fu Road often took place in the afternoon as many schools visited the show and several sightseeing buses sometimes parked there for patronages on students. In comparison with Sung-shou Road, Shi-fu Road was sometimes obstructed but not as serious than on weekends because the official shuttle buses played a key role on transportation.On the opposite way of two weekends (December 1, 2, 8, and 9), it exposed traffic problems as many people visited the show, even though the Traffic Division of Taipei City Police Department set medians around the Taipei World Trade Center and the Taipei 101, and it apparently decreased violations on illegal crossing, Shi-fu Road and Sung-shou Road were still trapped in traffic jams than on weekdays.Before the launch of the TWTC Nangang in March 2008, governments and show organizers will focus on the traffic issue at the Taipei World Trade Center during the construction of the MRT Taipei World Trade Center Station.With the success of the Samsung Running Festival from 2005 in Taipei, and continued with the image of charity, Samsung Electronics donated 100 PDA phones to Chinese National Association of the Deaf, R.O.C., Taiwan. (CNAD) and CNAD elected "Taiwan Top 10 Outstanding Deaf Occupational Excellence" delegates to receive this donation in the 3rd Taipei Samsung Running Festival."Earlier in 2006, Samsung donated lots of funds to help the process of 2009 Summer Deaflympics in Taipei. In this meaningful activity, I'm appreciated with the donation from Samsung who helped lots of deaf people in Taiwan with a good enterprise image. I hope Samsung can still promote the charity in Taiwan." Jiong-huang Yang (Chairman of CNAD) said at the Donation Ceremony."Based on a concern with an enterprise of 'What's taken from the people is used for the people', Samsung imported this running activity and donated with charity activity in Taiwan. I hope this event will close on people in Taiwan." Kuen-Hee Park (Greater China Area Chairman of Samsung Eletronics) remarked at Opening Ceremony.Nearly the start at 7:00 a.m. (Taipei Time), more than 30,000 runners were ready to start. To prevent the starting and route problem, the organizer Chinese Taipei Road Running Association set up the controlling line at the start line and it took a good effect with the start controlling.After the running activity, Samsung Electronics held lots of performances such as kids' street dancing, taekwondo skills by Taipei Physical Education College, CTITV Live Contest of "Ape Show" Program, and a small concert of CTV "One Million Star" entertainers. And National Palace Museum also invited runners visiting the NPM with dressing official "Taipei Samsung Running Festival" T-shirt after all the programs ended."Aztec Cup", named and famous in Taiwan on cyber-gaming industry, started in Taipei today and will run until January 6, 2008 at Taipei New World Shopping Center. Companies like iKala, Bandai-Namco, International Games System, Kingston Technology, and Seednet all supported this competition to help donations with Child Welfare League Foundation of the Republic Of China on public welfares.According to the main organizer, Aztec Master Plan, the Aztec Cup would be scheduled with different gaming natures and populations by seasonal or friendship competitions. Several games might be chosen as the official games frequently in different kind competitions.By the way for the sponsors, they identically agreed the combination with charity, cyber-gaming, and entertainment by the organizer in winter because it (the competition) can help the disadvantage organizations and developments of the cyber-gaming industry.Also in the press conference, Taipei New World Shopping Center, the venue owner,  mentioned to media: "We [the owner] definitively supported the gaming industry as some good examples like X06 Taiwan, 2006 World Cyber Games Taiwan Qualifier, and NBA 2K8 Asia Championship Taiwan Qualifier successively held in this venue. We hope the public can participate this competition to support the gaming industry in Taiwan."This year's COMPUTEX Taipei showcased vast ICT products and innovative designs. According to the Taiwan Design Center (TDC), Taiwan positioned a stable place in industrial and students' designs after winning several international design awards including G-mark, Red Dot, and iF.To promote the design of Taiwan into the world, not only pavilions from the Taiwan Excellence Gold & Silver Awards, d & i Award of COMPUTEX, Best Choice of COMPUTEX, and Taiwan Design Innovation Pavilion, the TDC & Taiwan External Trade Development Council also held the "Design Think Forum" to examine and forecast the design industry in Taiwan on the 2nd Day of COMPUTEX (June 4).In the "TAITRA ICT 5-Stars Press Conference", Walter Yeh, Vice President of Taiwan External Trade Development Council, talked to Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen about "Design", he said:Besides of the "iF Design Award Pavilion" at TAITRONICS 2008, the 2008 2nd Taiwan International Culture and Creative Industries Exhibition (a.k.a Creative Taiwan), which will be showcased at Taipei World Trade Center on October 23 - 26, will be a critical trade show for cultural, design, and creative industries. As a result, the growth of design industry will pulse the future of the other industries including the ICT.File:Dakar 2006 Hummer Gordon.jpgThe threat of terrorism has caused the cancellation yesterday of the 2008 Dakar Rally, due to start today. The race, which was to be the 30th consecutive rally, was to start in Lisbon, Portugal and end on January 20 in Dakar, Senegal having crossed the Sahara Desert.The endurance event is the world’s biggest off-road rally and Paris-based organisers Amaury Sport Organisation had said as late as Thursday that more than 500 cars, trucks, motorcycles and quads from fifty different countries were ready to go as scheduled. However, the organisation changed its mind under pressure from the French government.Al-Qaida-linked groups are believed to have planned to attack the rally, and it is reported that specific threats were made against it by al-Qaida in the Islamic Magreb, a regional African offshoot. The day before Christmas a French family on holiday in Mauritania was murdered and al-Qaida are believed to be responsible; the rally was scheduled to spend eight days in Mauritania.Al-Qaida in the Islamic Magreb have recently seen a crackdown by authorities, but are continuing their operations and are now seeking to strike international targets. Last month they bombed the United Nations headquarters in Algiers; that attack killed 37.The Mauritanian government had promised a 3,000-strong security force to protect the competitors but the remote location of the desert and scrubland involved would make effective security arrangements almost impossible. French security consultant Louis Caprioli, former anti-terrorism head at the Direction de la Surveillance du Territoire, said “You would need really incredible security precautions, and I don’t think it’s possible with the new techniques of attack, such as suicide bombings.”French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said yesterday that Amuary had been warned by government officials that it would be too dangerous to go ahead with the plan. After last-minute meetings with ministry officials. “No other decision but the cancellation of the sporting event could be taken,” said a statement on Amuary’s website.Caprioli said the terrorists intended to prove “They can chase out the infidels. The cancellation was wise. But it gives the impression that the terrorists have won.”Patrice Clerc, head of Amuary, stated “When you are told of direct threats against the event and when the sinister name of al-Qaeda is mentioned, you don’t ask for details. It was enough for me to hear my government say the danger is at a maximum.”Security has caused many concerns for the race over the years. Extremists tend to view the race as a prime target, as it is highly covered by the media, and is a rare concentration of Westerners. As a result, major security measures have had to be undertaken by French and African authorities. Almost 50 people have been killed, several of whom at the hands of African fighters. Although there are fears for the future of the race, Amuary said that the event would continue in the future. “The Dakar is a symbol, and nothing can destroy symbols,” they said. “The cancellation of the 2008 edition does not endanger the future of the Dakar.” However, they have confirmed that it is unlikely Mauritania will be a destination in future events. Competitors in the event, however, are less optimistic, with many saying that they feel the race will not go ahead next year. Newspapers in Senegal have described the cancellation as a death sentence. Meanwhile, the town of Portimao in Portugal, intended to be the rally’s first scheduled stop, are considering filing for damages against Amuary.Victor Anderes, vice-president of a New York firm specialising in high-profile event security, called the cancellation an unprecedented one in sporting history, saying “Smaller cultural events have been cancelled , but this hasn’t happened with such a major international event.” However, he did accept that “The threat is significant. It would be almost impossible to secure the entire course.”Nominees for the 2008 Juno Awards, Canada's primary music honours, were announced in Toronto on Tuesday. Celine Dion received nominations in six categories. Five nominations apiece were given to Michael Bublé, Feist and Avril Lavigne, who also happen to be previously scheduled performers at the Juno ceremonies. Ottawa's controversial rapper Belly received nominations in both the best rap recording and best new artist categories.Rock band Triumph will be inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame at the Juno awards ceremony, to be held in Calgary on 6th April. Russell Peters will host the ceremonies which will be televised by CTV television.This year's Leisure Taiwan trade show (a.k.a Taiwan Sport Recreation and Leisure Show) started yesterday, with 131 companies participating including sports media companies such as ESPN and VideoLand Television, businesses selling sports equipment and fitness clubs. There were also a variety of sports being played in the arena built for the trade show. The events included a 3-on-3 basketball tournament, free style shooting, and bicycle test-riding. In addition, conferences discussed issues related to sports and physical education.A major topic in the trade show was energy-efficiency and, as a result, bicycles and similar sports equipment were being heavily promoted. Next Tuesday, companies from the electronics industry plan to promote their industry at "2008 Digital E-Park." In previous years, organizations from the electronics industry have showcased their products at Leisure Taiwan instead of at the Digital E-Park, so this move has reduced the number of markets covered by Leisure Taiwan."2008 PeoPo Citizen Journalism Forum", organized by Public Television Service, PeoPo Citizen Journalism Portal, and Department of  Radio, TV, & Film of Shih Hsin University, held yesterday in the auditorium with participation from several bloggers, social workers, elites from mass media industry in Taiwan to prospect the status of citizen journalism in Taiwan.Continued with some topics from 2007 PeoPo Citizen Journalist Summit Party, 2007 Citizen Journalism Unconference during the Wikimania 2007, and first-ever "30-seconds question challenge by citizens" in the first official debate of 2008 Taiwan Presidential Election, topics in this forum mainly focused on participation and progression of citizen journalists, elites in this forum also did a simple SWOT analysis on the development of citizen journalism in Taiwan.In the opening topic of "Questions from the citizens in the official debate of '2008 Taiwan Presidential Election': General Overview", Feng-chia Chuang, Deputy Editor-in-chief of Central News Agency, described several kernel issues on sectors like background, political approaches of questioners, topics and views of questions suspected by media in Taiwan.In the next 3 topics related to citizen journalism on "community development", "citizen journalism in Taiwan", and "burgeoning and rising next media", lecturers described some examples from local citizen journalists' participation on several key social incidents like "2000 Pachang Creek Incident (in Chinese: 八掌溪事件)", "Planning Argument of Losheng Sanatorium (in Chinese: 樂生療養院爭議)", and "Homelessness in Taiwan".Therefore, "A-shaw" Hsun-hsiao Chen, Deputy Professor of Fu Jen Catholic University, analyzed the past and the presence of the information technology and transformations of mass media in Taiwan. And Po-ru Chen, Executive Officer of Chia-yi Community University analyzed differences on social phenomena, lifestyles, and culture between Northern and Southern Taiwan, and difference between urban and rural areas in a rapid-changing era of citizen journalism.In a general view of "2008 PeoPo Citizen Journalism Forum", the citizen journalism in Taiwan especially in some townships and communities in Central and Southern divisions, showcased significant cultures differ from Northern Taiwan. Multiple and mature convergences in the rising Web 2.0 era was grown up after participation by citizen journalists in Taiwan. Executives in this forums initiated the communities can continue good interactions to help the citizen journalism grown up in Taiwan.The leader of the 2008 Tour de Taiwan gets a yellow jersey.  But every tour winner gets assistance from a "Miss Etiquette,"  a tour assistant and a brand new part of the Tour de Taiwan.  Miss Ettiquette has become a key feature at the awards ceremonies for every stage. Fma International Co., Ltd., the jersey sponsor of 2008 Tour de Taiwan, and a participant of the 2008 Taipei Cycle, has designed 4 different cheongsams (dresses) for "Miss Etiquette," each matching the colors of the four leader jerseys. These cheongsam made a big hit with the Taiwanese and international media in Taiwan.But what led to these champion jerseys and cheongsams? Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen visited the booth of Fma International and interviewed Martin Hsueh-po Cheng, General Manager of Fma International, to uncover the background of their design at the 3rd Day of Taipei Cycle, just after the finish of the 7th Stage of the Tour de Taiwan (March 15).The 2008 Taipei Game Show, organized by Taipei Computer Association, supported by Bahamut Gamer Community, will begin on January 24 and then close on the 28 at the Taipei World Trade Center. This exhibition is sponsored by FamilyMart and titled the official motto with "Where You Are One of the Gamers" (in Chinese: 全家都是玩家) to invite the public to visit the show.Not only the main show and the votes of the 2007 Taiwan Digital Contents Award, but world-class experts from the gaming industry like Yoshiyuki Tomino and David Gould will share experiences about gaming developments at the 2008 Taiwan Digital Content Forum.According to the organizer, the award ceremony of the Taiwan Digital Contents Award was held before the main show in the past, but due to the schedule and arrangements of the Industrial Development Bureau of Ministry of Economic Affairs, the organizer decided to exhibit nominees from the 2007 Taiwan Digital Contents Award and postpone the award ceremony to February.For the issues on noise and flow of people, the organizer will bring some security policy by the venue owner TAITRA into practice during the show hours to prevent disorders of the show. Minors under age 12 also will be allowed to visit the show.The 2008 Taipei Game Show, organized by the Taipei Computer Association (TCA), ended on Monday, and was different from shows of past years. This could be seen in the gaming population, industry, and exhibition arrangements.The 2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition (TIBE 2008), organized by the Taipei Book Fair Foundation (TBFF), will start tomorrow and end next Monday (Feb. 18) at the Taipei World Trade Center in Hall 1 & 3 and in the Taipei Show (TWTC Hall 2). Before the opening of the main show, the TIBE changed significantly.Since the 2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition, which ended recently, made several significant differences this year, the arrangements of Comic Hall (TWTC Hall 2, a.k.a Comic Pavilion) showcased its differences with "different style reading style" and "growth of reading population".In the weekend of the 2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition at the Taipei World Trade Center, several participating publishers from Comic Hall (Hall 2) and General Book Hall (TWTC Hall 1) successively held several signing, meeting, and seminar events for different reading populations. Especially in the Comic Hall, several fans had waited for a long time before the opening hour.In the Signing Area of Comic Hall, due to several notable Japanese authors arriving for the signing events, the organizers restricted the flow of participants through the signing area. Not only the Comic Hall, since several entertainers from Taiwan came to the TWTC Hall 1, several media and drama fans expected some signing events in Hall 1.With several signing, meeting, and seminar events this weekend, good weather in Taipei, and the 2008 Taipei Lantern Festival held in the Xinyi Shopping Area and Taipei City Hall Square, the TBFF predicted that the peak of visitors will be determined with those events above, weekend hours, and extensions of the opening hour.Even though the weather was cold & bad weather in Taipei the 2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition (TIBE 2008), anticipated by worldwide media, government executives, and publishing experts, started on February 13 at the Taipei World Trade Center Halls 1 to 3. The show organizer, the Taipei Book Fair Foundation (TBFF), presented a special book award named the "Taipei International Book Exhibition Prize" (TIBE Prize) to publishers and authors for the first time.2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition, recently closed on Monday (Feb. 18), showed not only significances from visitors' participation but also smooth traffic condition on roads near the Taipei World Trade Center (TWTC).Since several MICEs (meetings, incentives, conferences, and exhibitions) were held in the TWTC and Taipei International Convention Center, a major issue for the hall owner TAITRA and several show organizers and participants was traffic condition near the venues especially in a show related to information technology. If the venue was filled with overflowed visitors, roads near the venues would be gotten in a stuck especially when it rained.Even though the Xinyi Line of Taipei Metro is still under construction, and the 2008 Taipei Lantern Festival is still held in the Xinyi Shopping Area and Taipei City Hall Square, the traffic condition on Shi-fu Road, Song-chih Road, and Song-shou Road had some differences with a sudden rain in Sunday (Feb. 17) afternoon, in which period made a major impact in corrupting good traffic condition in the TIBE 2008 especially from Saturday (Feb. 16) to Sunday morning, in which period, a bad traffic condition ever taken place in past years.Even though what the TIBE will be transformed, the overall image and quality from an exhibition including the TIBE will be determined by several factors especially operations and contents from the venue owner and show organizers.Following the first day's events at the 2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition (TIBE), organisers used today as an opportunity for a number of autograph sessions, the announcement of awards and a focus on the Taipei World Trade Center's Hall 3 where children's activities and seminars were being held.The Kids' Book Hall, which was created with cooperation from the Regional Association of Educational Materials, saw a new addition this year in the form of the "Taiwan Stationery" pavilion. The display included a variety of paper products not only for children, but for small-business and general usage. In order to promote some conceptions on environment and recycling, Yuen Foong Yu Paper Mfg. Co. Ltd. sponsored the exhibition with recycled poster container and corrugated-fiberboard, which was used to design several nature scenes, and the material will be reusable in the future.Participants also held several seminars at TWTC Hall 1 for reading population promotion, for example, a Taiwanese version of a famous magazine named "Kagakuru". Aimed at science education, imported by Taiwan Mac Education, and promoted by several academic professionals in Taiwan, the magazine will be released on March 3, 2008.At the 2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition, comic books and fiction books presented different authoring styles in formatting, story construction, and background settings. Examples of these were highlighted at two seminars entitled "On Trends in Creative Chinese Literature" and "From 'Shao Nu Xiao Yu' (少女小漁, meaning in English as "A Young Girl - Little Fish") to 'The Banquet Bug' (赴宴者)", as well as through recent fiction released by several publishers in Taiwan.		In the seminar about 'The Banquet Bug', a book, which has drawn by international media attention from "The Times", "Daily Mail", and "TIME Magazine", was recently translated into the Chinese language by John Chiang-sheng Kuo (郭強生). Taiwanese literature commentator Nan Fang Shou (南方朔, pen-name by Xin-ching Wang, 王杏慶) said the following at the seminar:At the other seminar, "On Trends in Creative Chinese Literature", which focused on wuxia novels, famous Taiwanese novelist Da-chuen Chang (張大春) commented with some specialists on wuxia novels and said:In fact, the novel and fiction authoring in Taiwan has generally been steady and varied with such examples and the maturation of independent authoring.In the Hall 1 of 2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition, the public often think this hall as a collective from general books. But this year, United Daily News Group (聯合報系) not only participated in this show with major brands on Economic Daily News (經濟日報), Linking Publishing (聯經出版社), and United Daily News Online (聯合線上), but also announced two interactive e-books with Old Master Q and Wan-Wan (彎彎) on Saturday (Feb. 16). With two major announcements, the General Book Hall conjoined with a fashion of comic.				The "Old Master Q" became a fashion in not only Taiwan but also Chinese-language world because readers in Chinese-language world wanted to collect whole series and recommended its series as "Must Buy Series", its humor style attracted readers to read. After several arrangements with music and flash movies, the "Old Master Q" series will be more interactive than a simple comic book.Joseph Chak Wong (王澤) ever replied a question to local media about its characteristic and said:In the afternoon, a Taiwanese famous blogger drawer "Wan-Wan" Chia-wei Hu participated the E-book launch of "Can't I go to work? A drawing diary by Wan-Wan.". The original author, Wan-Wan said to media and fans:After her words, the possibility of brand establishment on Wan-Wan's work may be increased in the future for the global marketing in comic world.Vastly different from the YODEX, mainly focused on students' designs, the 2008 2nd Taiwan Designers' Week, a collective show organized by Taiwan Designers' Web for industrial designs and individual design studios, took place at the Xinyi Public Assembly Hall, formally known as "Si-Si Nan Cun (in Chinese: 四四南村)" and entitled the theme of "Design & Beyond".This professional exhibition featured topical designs including "Play with the Eating Culture", "Wall", "The Story of Paper-Cutting", "Basket", "Between On and Off", "50 Pleasures in the Study - Dian Shin Refreshment 2008", "Reincarnation", and "NoName Design", at Xinyi Public Assembly Hall; "City Yeast 2008･Balcony Project" at Xue Xue Institute from June 26th to July 8th; "Having A Perfect Life Is Easy" at Taipei Artist Village from June 27th to July 7th. In addition, The XRANGE Studio also created a giant floating cloud at Central Square of Xinyi Public Assembly Hall.Innovative designs in this exhibition showcased different topical elements on environment, modern lifestyle, current incident, and subculture. Those reflect the achievements by professional designers in Taiwan as Taiwan's designs were affirmed in several international design competitions including G-mark, Red Dot, and iF.After this exhibition, Taiwan Design Center, the show co-organizer, scheduled several upcoming competitions and shows from this August to October including "Taiwan Design Expo", "Taiwan Design Award", "Taiwan International Design Competition", and "Creative Taiwan".The 2nd-annual Taiwan Tourism Exposition 2008, organized by the Taipei Association of Travel Agents, started yesterday (May 16) at the Taipei World Trade Center Exhibition Hall 3. 350 different agencies from local and foreign countries participated in the show. Governments and travel agencies in Taiwan hoped this exhibition could inspire the tourism industry in the light of the recent earthquake in Sichuan Province in China.Before opening day, Peter Ting, Vice Chairman of the Taipei Association of Travel Agents, spoke to Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen about the recent earthquake."It [the earthquake] wouldn't make a great strike for the [tourism] industry, but it apparently effected us [the industry] in consequence. In fact, we hoped this [Sichuan] earthquake never happened even though it is partial for us. Currently, not only [did] our delegates visit there to gain [perspective of the] current conditions [after the earthquake], but also the Tourism Bureau [of the Republic of China] also did the "Travel Warning" announcement for Sichuan as "No Visiting Place". Besides of this, I think the other places [or nations] would be effected less than Sichuan. Therefore, I hope visitors can choose suitable travel packages after several views for safety issue.," stated Ting.Vincent Siew, the pre-elected Vice President of the Republic of China, was invited to join in the Opening Ceremony yesterday, and commented."The tourism industry is a potential industry in Taiwan, I hope this industry can be properly promoted with some modifications from our laws after this earthquake to encourage more foreign visitors visit Taiwan," said SiewBecause of the "Travel Warning" by the Tourism Bureau, the Straits Exchange Foundation dispatched several travel guide books during the show hours to strengthen traveling risks and conceptions for visitors when choosing any travel package.The third annual Taste of Taiwan Cuisine opened on Wednesday of June 18, 2008 and runs until June 21. Organized by Taiwan External Trade Development Council to promote the culinary culture of Taiwan, the tradeshow featured three main shows for food and food packaging industries: "Food Taipei", "Foodtech Taipei", and "Taipei Pack".Twenty-seven countries including United States, South Korea, Canada, Japan, Sri Lanka, Austria, Philippines, Chile, Malaysia, Spain, Fiji, Poland, and six nations from Africa, grouped their own national pavilions for sourcing and procurement. In addition, the Taiwan Pavilion featured sections on culture, product image, brand design, and agriculture verification in Food Taipei.Industrial solutions including medical applications, packaging machines, food CNCs, and bar-code printers are showcased in the "Foodtech Taipei" and "Taipei Pack". Seminars and forums from security, global marketing, and policies for food, machinery, and packaging industries are also held during show hours.After the 3-in-1 show in Taipei, the Kaohsiung International Food Show will be scheduled for November.Ever since the Taste of Taiwan Cuisine, a complex to promote the MICE (meeting, incentive travel, conference, and exhibition) and cultural industries in Taiwan exclusively in June, made its initiation at 2006, the tourism ratio from foreigners were progressively increased in this complex event.To bring up the MICE industry, Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), the event organizer, arranged several key events including Taipei Trade Shows, travel packages, views, and conferences for international businesspeople. This effectively redefined the MICE industry in Taiwan during the event.The Saint Paul Winter Carnival in Saint Paul, Minnesota suffered a brief thaw on Monday, with Monday's 41°F afternoon temperature plummeting below zero twenty four hours later.  On Sunday, judging of both ice and snow sculptures had taken place.  By Monday afternoon, temperatures above freezing had greatly damaged the outdoor sculptures.  In Rice Park, fallen ice from sculptures mixed with chunks left from the previous day's carving.  Snow sculptures at the State Fairgrounds were also significantly damaged.The brief warmth made for comfortable skating on the Wells Fargo Winterskate rink next to Landmark Center in downtown Saint Paul.  A block away the Hot Dish Tent was offering popular high-starch fare.The Winter Carnival started in 1886, after the city's Chamber of Commerce took offense at a New York reporter's comparison of the city to Siberia.  The annual event celebrates the cold weather while drawing people to outdoor and indoor activities.The 27th Young Designers' Exhibition 2008, recognized by the International Council of Societies of Industrial Design (ICSID) as the largest show of student creations, recently ended Sunday May 18. It was held at the Taipei World Trade Center. Improvements and expansions were seen with 107 academical and industrial units. Different design competitions participated and showcased their products and also received awards.It's no doubt that companies related to design and cultural industries want to discover creative talents from academical units in this exhibition. However, most companies still try to showcase different conceptional and applicative products in order to promote Taiwan's designs into the world market. A typical example is Fora Series, a photo-voltaic product series by the Tsann Kuen Trans-nation Group.Before entering into their careers, students participated in this show and showcased varied styles that differ from the usual industrial businesspeople. To get more opportunities and in order to interact with the design and cultural industries, students also participated in vast competitions and tried to get the top places. Some students also tried to design conceptional products in conjunction with industrial designs, especially in some design competitions.In summary, not only did the 2008 YODEX, have companies which can discover talents and showcase achievements of industrial design in the exhibition, but students can make their stages to showcase excellences from their creations in several competitions related to YODEX.On the opening day of the 2008 Young Designers' Exhibition (May 15), the Council for Cultural Affairs of Executive Yuan announced the first-ever "Wow! Taiwan Design Competition" at the Taipei World Trade Center. It will take place in conjunction with the main show (2008 YODEX). The winners from the  Professional and Student classes were announced and awarded in an ceremony yesterday.According to official information from the Taiwan Design Center (TDC), this first-ever design competition was designed for local participants to construct creative products with internationalizations and traditional cultures, and market them worldwide."EasTea / WesTea" and "Window & Box" also won the championship in the professional and student groups in this competition.2008 The 27th Young Designers' Exhibition, opened on May 15 at the Taipei World Trade Center and closes Sunday May 18. It features participation by 87 academic groups in Taiwan and 20 groups from United States, United Kingdom, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, and Australia to showcase various achievements in industrial design. It is recognized by the International Council of Societies of Industrial Design (ICSID) as the largest show of student creations.Besides the several design competitions, sponsors like International Forum Design (iF), EPSON, MUJI (in Japanese: 無印良品, Mujirushi Ryōhin), Tsann Kuen Trans-nation Group will showcase different solutions for the design, creative, and cultural industries. The show's organizer, Taiwan Design Center, also designed several on-site events like "On-line Graduate Season Show", "Career Match-up", "Creative and Cultural Showcase and Performance", "Seminars of YODEX 2008" to link the actual exhibition with the on-line exhibition.Besides of the previously announced "Wow! Taiwan Design Award", winners from "2008 Young Designers' Competition" and "2008 YODEX Interior Design Competition" were announced on Saturday, May 17.The 2010 BRIT Awards, presented by the British Phonographic Industry, is an annual award ceremony for music artists. This year, the competition took place in the Earls Court Exhibition Centre in London, England. The event started taking place in 1980, with this year's event being the 30th BRIT Awards. This year, the programme was broadcast live - although with a short delay to allow censorship of strong language - on ITV1 from 2000-2200 GMT on Tuesday. 5.8 million viewers watched it, which was an audience share of 21.9%.The main presenter of the programme was British comedian Peter Kay, although various other celebrities also presented awards, including actor Andy Serkis, musician Melanie Brown, singer Shirley Bassey, television and radio presenter Jonathan Ross, actor Idris Elba, singer Geri Halliwell, television presenter Cat Deeley, comedian Alan Carr, singer Mika, fashion designer and film director Tom Ford, former glamour model Samantha Fox, musician Noddy Holder and musician and actress Courtney Love. Fearne Cotton was also a backstage presenter during the event. There was also an after show highlights programme broadcast on ITV2, immediately after the programme on ITV1 had finished, from 2200-2300 GMT. Presenting on the programme was Rufus Hound and Caroline Flack. BBC Radio 1 also had continuous official coverage on the station throughout the day of the awards, with disc jockeys Scott Mills and Greg James hosting a programme on the station at around the time of the award ceremony. Various artists, all of which were BRIT Award nominees, performed during the ITV1 programme. Lily Allen, JLS and Kasabian were amongst the performers. American musician Lady Gaga said that "[t]his is for Alexander McQueen", who died on February 11, 2010, before performing two of her tracks - Telephone and Dance in the Dark. Dizzee Rascal and Florence and the Machine performed a duet entitled You've Got the Dirtee Love, which was a merger of two songs - You've Got the Love, which was originally recorded by The Source and Candi Staton - and later covered by Florence and the Machine - and Dirtee Cash, which was originally performed by Dizzee Rascal.After Jay-Z and Alicia Keys performed their song Empire State of Mind, Cheryl Cole performed her track, Fight For This Love, although the performance featured excerpts from Show Me Love, a track that was originally recorded by Robin S.Lady Gaga won all three awards that she was nominated for, including "International female solo artist", "International breakthrough act" and "International album", the latter being for The Fame. In one of her acceptance speeches, she said: "Thank you, thank you so so much. I love my fans. Thank you. My fans in the UK, thank you."When accepting the award for "British male solo artist", rapper Dizzee Rascal stated: "It's about time as well." Music group JLS were nominated for three awards and won two of them - "British breakthrough act" and "British single". Group member Oritsé Williams stated in the acceptance speech: "We never ever thought this would happen, you've made our dreams come true." Kasabian was given the award for "British group". Lily Allen, who was wearing an orange wig during the award ceremony, received the award for "British female solo artist". In her acceptance speech, she declared: "Oh my god. I only wore this orange wig 'cause I though it'd make it harder for them to find me, the cameramen, and catch my disappointed face."British group Florence and the Machine won the "Mastercard British album" award for the album Lungs. Florence Welch of the group accepted the award, stating: "Thanks so much for having me back. Cheers! [...] There are so many people that help me make this album and so many people who supported it, people like you." The award for "BRITs performance of 30 years" went to former group the Spice Girls for their performance of Wannabe/Who Do You Think You Are. The award for "International male solo artist" went to rapper Jay-Z.Former British group Oasis were awarded with the honour of "BRITs album of 30 years", for their album (What's the Story) Morning Glory?. Former group comrade Liam Gallagher came onto the stage to accept the award and told the viewers: "Listen kids. I wanna thank Bonehead, Quiggs, Alan White... the best fucking fans in the world. Live forever." He then threw his microphone and the trophy into the crowd and walked off the stage. Presenter Peter Kay then came on and said about Gallagher: "What a knobhead."At one point during the programme, a pre-recorded video with Prince Harry of Wales in it was shown. In the video, Prince Harry said: "You'll be pleased to know that I'm not gonna sing, but only because I don't want to show up the next act. The BRITs is a celebration of all that is totally outstanding and unique about British music. But what's less well known about the BRITs is the fantastic work it does raising millions of pounds for the BRIT trust which has benefited thousands of young people to develop their talents and generally enrich our society. Well done on all you've achieved. I hope you have a fantastic evening."The "Critic's choice" award was given to British music artist Ellie Goulding. The "Outstanding contribution award" was won by British musician Robbie Williams, who performed a medley of thirteen of his songs at the end of the programme - Let Me Entertain You, Supreme, Millennium, Feel, Everything Changes (originally performed by Take That, the group that Williams was formerly a member of), Angels, No Regrets, Bodies, Come Undone, Morning Sun, Rock DJ and Rudebox.Below is a complete list of the recipients of the awards on Tuesday night. Please note that the awards list is not in order of when they were given out.British male solo artist - Dizzee RascalBritish female solo artist - Lily AllenBritish breakthrough act - JLSBritish group - KasabianMastercard British album - Florence and the Machine - LungsBritish single - JLS - Beat AgainBRITs performance of 30 years - Spice Girls - Who Do You Think You AreInternational male solo artist - Jay-ZInternational female solo artist - Lady GagaInternational breakthrough act - Lady GagaInternational album - Lady Gaga - The FameBRITs album of 30 years - Oasis - (What's the Story) Morning Glory?Critic's choice - Ellie GouldingOutstanding contribution award - Robbie WilliamsThe 2011 Pichileminian Week (Semana Pichilemina 2011) concluded on Saturday night, after a performance of Chilean humourist Juan Carlos "Palta" Meléndez, and singer Douglas, in the city's Arturo Prat Square.The Pichileminian Week celebrations began on February 14, on Saint Valentine's Day, with a performance of singer Leandro Martínez, along with other local artists. "My public still remembers with nostalgia my days as Rojo [a Chilean talent show] participant, [it] will be a huge opportunity to reunite myself with them," Martínez told Jorge Vargas González during an interview for Radio Somos Pichilemu. During that night, the participants for Miss Playa Pichilemu 2011 were presented to the public.Celebrations on Tuesday were mostly based in Cáhuil. On Wednesday, the "Noche Ranchera" ("Ranchera Night") took place: the Chilean cumbia band Los Kuatreros del Sur, along with Pichileminian musicians such as Gabriel y Los Bravos de la Costa, performed until very late in the night.The "Gran Gala Folclórica" ("Grand Folkloric Gala") was made on Thursday, with folkloric bands such as Orimapu, Sentimiento Chileno, Voces Colchagüinas, and Las Capitalinas performing through the night.Friday night saw the final stage of Miss Playa Pichilemu 2011, and the performance of Uruguayan New Wave band Los Iracundos, whose hit songs of the 1960s Puerto Montt, and Es La Lluvia Que Cae are still remembered among fans.The winner of Miss Playa Pichilemu 2011 was the local student Natalie Pavez Cerda, aged 15. Camila Herrera Fernández, 17, ended up in second place, and Valentina Donoso Farías, 17, in third."This has been the best weekend I have seen for ages," said Hernán Garrido, former councillor of Pichilemu in Radio Entre Olas. "I am so happy that the tourism has [been] reactivated in our loved commune," he added. It has been estimated that Pichilemu was visited by around 100,000 tourists only this week, according to Radio Entre Olas reports.In previous years, the Municipality of Pichilemu had invited artists such as Joe Vasconcellos (2010), and Los Jaivas (2009), reaching enourmous assistance to each of the performances.On Tuesday, the 2011 BRIT Awards were presented from The O2 Arena in London, England. This is the first time that the awards ceremony has been hosted from this venue; previously, the regular location for the show was the Earls Court Exhibition Centre, which is also located in London.The BRIT Awards, presented by the British Phonographic Industry, is an annual ceremony that awards music artists for excellence in music. The BRIT Awards started in 1980; this year's event is the 31st BRIT Awards. ITV1 broadcasted this year's programme from 2000-2200 UTC, with British actor and presenter James Corden hosting it.The ITV1 programme contained performances from various artists, many of which had been nominated for BRIT Awards. The performers and the performances are displayed below but are not in chronological order. They are as follows:Take That – KidzAdele – Someone Like YouRihanna – Only Girl (In the World) / S&M / What's My Name?Mumford & Sons – TimshelPlan B – She Said / Prayin'Tinie Tempah, Eric Turner and Labrinth – Written in the Stars / Miami 2 Ibiza / Pass OutArcade Fire – Ready To StartCee Lo Green and Paloma Faith – Forget YouBritish rapper Tinie Tempah was nominated for most awards than any other artist, with 'Best British Album' and 'Best British Male' included amongst his four nominations. He was given two BRIT awards - one for 'Best British Single', which was Pass Out, and the second for 'Best British Breakthrough Act'. Upon receiving what would turn out to be his first award of two, Tinie Tempah proclaimed: "I want to big up God and my family for sticking by me when times are hard." Canadian indie rock group Arcade Fire were also successful in achieving two BRIT Awards, one for 'Best International Group' and the other for 'Best International Album'; their album is entitled The Suburbs.Dermot O'Leary presented an award to British pop group Take That for 'Best British Group', the first time the group have ever achieved such an award. While the group received the award, member Mark Owen looked at Robbie Williams, who had recently rejoined Take That, and said: "Can I say thanks for coming back mate. Appreciate it. It's a real pleasure for the five of us to be up here." The group had a second nomination for 'Best British Album' but were unsuccessful in winning the award.Cee Lo Green, a member of the group Gnarls Barkley, received one BRIT Award for 'Best International Male'. In his acceptance speech, he commented: "I'm so excited. Thank you so much for this honour. Such a pleasant surprise." Cee Lo was also nominated for 'Best International Album' but failed to achieve the award.Roger Daltrey, lead singer of English rock group The Who, humourously commented that "[i]t's good to see the British music industry still has enough money for a good booze up" before giving the award for 'Best British Album' to Mumford & Sons for their album, entitled Sigh No More. Marcus Mumford, of the group, said that "[t]his is very bizarre, very strange. Thank you very much indeed. We are very honoured, very humbled."Mark Ronson and Ellie Goulding awarded the 'Critics' Choice' to English singer-songwriter Jessie J. Backstage, Jessie J - who is currently at number one in the UK Singles Chart with her song Price Tag, featuring American rapper B.o.B - remarked that "[p]op stands for popular. I want to be a pop icon and take Britain across the world."Plan B, another British rapper, achieved the award for 'Best British Male'. "There's a lot of people I could be thanking right now, I wanna thank them all together," he said during his acceptance speech. Having expressed thanks to various family members, friends, his record labels and the people he had worked with, he concluded his speech with the line: "Thank you, everybody. That's all." Earlier in February 2011, Markus Dravs was given the BRIT Award for 'Best British Producer' by Chris Martin, a member of the group Coldplay; Dravs is co-producing a fifth album for the group at present. Dravs was nominated for his work in relation to Arcade Fire album The Suburbs and Mumford & Sons album Sigh No More. "You could hear it in the lyrics and in the commitment in the demos," he commented. "I really wanted to get involved and see if I could help make the record."During the BRIT Awards programme on Tuesday, Cheryl Cole presented the 'Best International Female', which was won by Rihanna. The Barbadian pop and R&B singer exclaimed during her acceptance speech: "Britain, I love you! This is so exciting. I want to thank everybody at my label, Mercury [...] all my fans here. You guys are the best! I love you so much. This is...this is big. It doesn't get much bigger than the BRITs, so I love you guys. Thank you so much. This means a lot. I'm the only girl in the world!"The award for 'Best International Breakthrough Act' was given to Justin Bieber, a Canadian pop music / R&B singer. Upon accepting the award, Bieber commented: "I want to thank all my fans over here. You guys are amazing. I want to thank the label over here". Laura Marling was subsequently awarded 'Best British Female'. After being presented with the award by Boy George, Marling said: "Thank you. My name's Laura and there you go, mum. That's for you and thank you very much to Adam and Laura and everyone at Virgin. This is really weird."Shortly after the broadcast of the main programme, performances became available to purchase via iTunes. The The BRIT Trust will receive all of the downloads' profits as a donation.Below, all of the recipients of the awards on Tuesday night are available to view in a list, which is not presented in chronological order.Best British Male – Plan BBest British Female – Laura MarlingBest British Group – Take ThatBest British Single – Tinie Tempah - Pass OutBest British Album – Mumford & Sons - Sigh No MoreBest British Producer – Markus DravsBest British Breakthrough Act – Tinie TempahBest International Male – Cee Lo GreenBest International Female – RihannaBest International Group – Arcade FireBest International Album – Arcade Fire – The SuburbsBest International Breakthrough Act – Justin BieberCritics' Choice - Jessie JBelow is an image gallery displaying library photographs of some of the acts who appeared at the BRIT Awards 2011:On Wednesday, the news emerged that the BRIT Awards 2011 gained approximately 4.8 million viewers, the smallest viewing figures the show has experienced for five years. The ratings of the ceremony were beaten by the last episode of Big Fat Gypsy Weddings in the series, broadcast on Channel 4 from 2100–2200 UTC on Tuesday; the viewing figures stood at approximately 6.5 million viewers. Holby City, broadcast on BBC One, also attracted more viewers than the BRIT Awards 2011. The programme, which was shown from 2000-2100 UTC, received approximately 5.8 million viewers.The 2013 Autumn Old and Antique Bookfair ((es))Spanish language: ‍Feria de Otoño del Libro Viejo y Antiguo continued on Paseo de Recoletos in Madrid, Spain yesterday with an outdoor temperature around 21C/70F and no precipitation.   Running from September 26 until October 13, the first stalls are found near Plaza de Cibeles and continue to Calle Prim, running in a straight line down Paseo de Recoletos in the pedestrian walk in the center of the road. The antique and old books fair is in its twenty-fifth edition and is one of several large bookfairs that occurs annually in Spain. While not widely known internationally, the festival of books is known nationally. Organized by The Libris Antique Books Association ((es))Spanish language: ‍La Asociación de Libreros de Viejo Libris in collaboration with the Madrid City Council, 39 book vendors are selling books at the fair from across various regions of the country including Madrid, Valencia and Zaragoza.  The poster for the event was designed by Madrid comic artist Alfonso Azpiri.Unesco's World Heritage Committee inscribed 21 new sites into the World Heritage list on Wednesday, during the 34th session of the committee's meeting in Brasilia, Brazil under the Chairmanship of the Minister of Culture of Brazil, João Luiz da Silva Ferreira.Three countries had sites added to the list for the first time: Tajikistan, Kiribati, and Marshall Islands.  The Committee added four sites to the World Heritage in Danger list, including the Gelati Monastery and Bagrati Cathedral, both in Georgia.  The Galapagos (Ecuador) were removed from this list.Some of the newly included World Heritages are: Papahānaumokuākea (United States), el Camino Real de Tierra Adentro (Mexico), and São Francisco square (Brazil).Unesco World Heritage sites have special cultural or physical significance as a place or region. Unesco conserves, names, and catalogues these sites for the common heritage of humanity. Italy ranks as the country with the most World Heritage sites, having 45 in total.Many of the 302 million people living in the United States celebrated Independence Day today.24 people had to be rescued by fire fighters after a mechanical fault caused a roller coaster to stop mid journey at the California's Great America theme park in Santa Clara, California, United States. The Invertigo roller coaster malfunctioned at around 12:15 p.m. (PDT) leaving some riders stranded as high as 80 ft from the ground. The ride was stuck for several hours, and the last passenger reached the ground at 5:45 p.m.. None of the riders were injured during the incident. The theme park released a statement saying that the cause of the fault was a faulty lift chain.  They added that getting the ride fixed was "priority number two while the passengers safety was the number one priority." One of the stuck passengers was Shannon Brown who said "there was a lot of noise, parts went flying. A big, heavy piece of metal went flying. It gave a pretty rough stop -- knocked my glasses off."Passengers were given water as they waited in 90(F)-degree heat. Fire captain Scott Kouns said, "It was a hot day in the Santa Clara with temperatures in the 90s. Any length of time trapped on a roller coaster would be uncomfortable, to say the least, and it took at least an hour to get the first person off the ride."After the riders were rescued, the theme park offered complimentary soft drinks and pizza.Today, June 29, the New Zealand Broadcasting Standards Authority (BSA) decided to throw out the 35 complaints made against a South Park episode. Three of the 35 were from church societies. The South Park episode in question was aired in February and depicted a statue of the Virgin Mary menstruating. The episode was named Bloody Mary.That episode received the highest number of complaints the BSA has ever received since starting in 1989. And C4, the broadcaster, received the highest number of viewers since it started in 2003.The complaints received state that the broadcaster breached a number of standards in the Free To Air Television Code of Broadcasting Practice but the BSA responded by saying that it is within the broadcasters freedom of expression.C4 and the BSA both agree that people were given offence by the episode. C4 chose not to screen the episode again. The broadcast of the programme was protected by the Bill of Rights Act 1990.The BSA did note that the programme was not a direct attack on Catholics but was to satirise the belief in miracles from statues. The programme was deliberately provocative. The BSA says, "But showing disrespect does not amount to the sort of vicious or vitriolic attack normally associated with the denigration standard."November 5, is Guy Fawkes Night. On this day, 401 years ago there was an attempt to blow up the British parliament.Since that time, Guy Fawkes day is celebrated by bonfires, fireworks and the parading of effigies called "guys".The event is not only celebrated in the United Kingdom, but other Commonwealth countries including New Zealand, South Africa, Newfoundland, Bahamas, Saint Kitts and formerly Australia.Britons celebrate a national day of thanksgiving that the Gunpowder plot did not destroy their king and parliament. But as tradition goes, the oppression that Roman Catholics felt was always de-emphasised.This year sees rising opposition to the traditional fireworks and bonfires celebrations. A smog warning has been issued for London on the 5th and British Labour MP Barry Sheerman called for the event to be scrapped.The Muscular Dystrophy Association will get their annual boost, thanks to one of America's longest running annual programs, the Jerry Lewis MDA Labor Day Telethon.Anchored for the 39th consecutive time by Ed McMahon, the special will be co-hosted by Kelly Monaco, who recently appeared on Dancing with the Stars, and Tom Bergeron, host of that series. Broadcast from the South Coast Hotel in Las Vegas, the live program will begin at 9 p.m. EDT Sunday and run for 21½ hours.America's Got Talent contestant, Taylor Ware, will perform Monday, according to her agent. Set to perform are Celine Dion, Lance Burton, Clint Holmes, Rita Rudner, and George Wallace; a complete list was not made available on the MDA website.Lewis started the telethon on just one station in New York City, in 1966, yet the show raised $1 million. Last year's record total raised was $54.9 million, as the special was aired on 190 stations across America.The 47th Thessaloniki Film Festival will open on Friday, November 17, 2006 in Thessaloniki, Greece. According to the Festival's officials, a record number of three hundred plus films will compose this year’s festival programme. The Venice Film Festival prize winner The Queen, directed by Stephen Frears and starring the award winner, British actress Helen Mirren, will be the opening film. According to the Festival's Director, this year's international competition section will "leans towards the adventure of narrative. It creates a world of vital stories, which film makers from four continents believe they must tell at any cost". Among the official guests of the 47th Film Festival are the French actress Emmanuele Béart, director Wim Wenders, and the American actress and singer Juliette Lewis, who will give a concert at the Mylos Hall, in Thessaloniki's Port. Also, the France-based Greek director Costa Gavras will give a seminar regarding the Greek-American actor-director, John Cassavetes.  According to the President of the Thessaloniki Film Festival, actor Georges Corraface, this year's bill of the Festival reaches 7.5 million Euro. From his side, the Minister for Culture, Giorgos Voulgarakis stated that the Ministry acts towards the increase of the International character of the Film Festival. Thessaloniki's Film Festival is regarded the most important cinema festival in the Balkans. Many famous actors, actresses and directors like Francis Ford Coppola, Faye Dunaway and Catherine Deneuve have been among the official guests of the Thessaloniki Film Festival during the last decade. Former Presidents of Thessaloniki's Festival were the film directors Theo Angelopoulos and Pantelis Voulgaris.For two weeks, from Saturday June 21 to Saturday July 5 2008, Šibenik, Croatia will be welcoming the whole world at the 48th International Children's Festival. Musicians, actors, film-makers, poets, puppeteers and other performance artists will perform for the young spectators. Performances generally take place in the evening, while budding artists will have access to numerous workshops during the day.At the peek of summer, children will be able to train their creativity in the cool yard of a Baroque hotel, explore the mysterious network of the wells and tanks of an old city or launch an attack on the numerous strongholds which once protected the city, the first one constructed by the Croatian kings.Philippine fishermen, volunteers and authorities with dozens of fishing boats have joined hands in guiding back to sea about 500 disorientated melon-headed whales that were stranded in the shallow waters near the mouth of Manila Bay delta in the Bataan Peninsula.The gentle mammals were first spotted swimming back and forth and straying very dangerously close (about a mile or 1.6 kilometers) to the shores of the coastal towns of Pilar, Orion and Abucay 135 kilometers northwest of Manila at around at around 4:00 am on Tuesday, said Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) Commodore Luis Tuazon and Bataan Governor Enrique Garcia Jr.The Philippines Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) said its has responded to the reported mass "stranding" of whales off Pilar coastal waters in the province of Bataan where the famous and historic Corregidor Island is located. Using dozens of fishing boats with machines shut down and bare hands, more than 100 village fishermen and volunteers along with BFAR, local police and Philippine Coast Guard personnel have joined the massive rescue. With great difficulty, the emergency team has waded into the chest-deep water, clapping their hands and hitting the surface to guide and drive the whales farther away from the coastal shore to deeper waters."The mammals were at first thought to have been dolphins, but experts then identified them as melon-headed whales," local veterinarian Mariel Flores said. "This type of whale can be easily mistaken for dolphins because of their size and their teeth, which resemble those of dolphins. The mammals have ears that are sensitive to large changes in pressure underwater," she added."It looked like they never wanted to leave. They looked sad,” said Rodolfo Joson, a village councilor. Joson and his son, Joey, a fisherman like him, have rushed home at about 4 a.m. to report the pod sighting. “It was still dark when we waded into the water. The whales were about 200 meters from the shore. The water was up to my neck. We first checked their conditions by playing with them. They did not repel us or leave. They were making hooting sounds,” Joson explained the mass beaching. “It seemed they were running away from waters that they didn’t like. Dolphins are happy and strong creatures. They raced with ships,” he added.A post-mortem examination has revealed that four dead whales found beached farther up north in Abucay, Bataan, include two adult females, one of which was pregnant, while the other gave birth to a calf that also died, said Dr. Lemnuel Aragones of Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport who did the necropsy at the Bataan fisheries office in Balanga City.This is the first time that such large numbers of dolphins had been stranded in the Philippines. "We are trying to come up with a possible explanation to this unusual occurrence. It could be that the dolphins had lost their bearings and inadvertently ended up on the shallow portion of the coast unable to extricate themselves," said Dr Lemuel Aragones, Associate Professor at the UP Institute of Environmental Science and Meteorology. Dr Aragones, who holds a PhD on Tropical Environmental Studies (Marine Ecology) from Australia's James Cook University, explained that "the melon-headed whales of the dolphin family have sophisticated navigation systems that operate on a principle similar to sonar instruments used in submarines. Like humans, dolphins also follow a 'leader' of their pod. It is possible that the leader of this dolphin [pod] had somehow lost its way. In turn, the leader’s acoustic system, which serves as its guidance system, might have been impaired," the marine expert elaborated.Dr Aragones said "BFAR, UPIESM, and the Ocean Adventure Marine Park in Subic started the Philippine Marine Mammals Stranding Network (PMMSN) in 2005 as a response to cetacean strandings or beachings." She cited the PMMSN training received by BFAR officers in Bataan during Tuesday's mass beaching. She has asked the government to release funds for marine mammal studies.The two adults had damaged eardrums, Alberto Venturina, the provincial veterinarian, said. "Dolphins with injured eardrums become disoriented, cannot dive for food and are too weak to swim and just flow with the current. If it's a sick leader, the animal needs to be identified and taken out of sight of the rest of the pod so the healthy dolphins could be prodded back to sea," he added."The two animals were identified as melon-headed dolphins, weighing about 250 to 300 kilograms (550 to 660 pounds)," explained Venturina, adding "the third dolphin was only a month old and measured barely a meter long. Its gender had not yet been determined."According to Nelson Bien, head of the Fisheries Resource and Management Division of BFAR Region III, a necropsy by BFAR, the provincial veterinarian, and veterinarians from the Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport has traced the cause of their death to drowning. The marine doctors have determined that the marine mammals might have drowned after failing to extricate themselves from the fishing nets or "baklad," explained Dr. Mundita Lim, director of the Protected Areas and Wildlife Bureau (PAWB) of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). “There were no injuries to their ears, like visible lesions, but the possibility of an acoustic problem or trauma is still there,” Dr Lim explained, saying, "more tests, like analysis of tissue samples and MRI tests will have to be done to see if there were other injuries to the animals not visible externally."They are sending tissue samples to the University of Philippines in Los Baños, Laguna for analysis. “If it was something like climate change, then it would be a bigger environmental problem,” Lim added.A fourth and pregnant one was also found dead in the village of Tortugas in the town of Balanga, Bataan, said Bien, saying they were investigating the incident and would conduct a “water quality and water parameter test” to determine why the dolphins beached to shallow waters. The condition of melon-headed whale found at Talisay River and taken to Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport has improved amid forced feeding and treatment of its 2 wounds, said Nilo Ramoso, Biologist III, Pawikan Conservation Project.Dr. Westly Rosario, BFAR Center chief in Dagupan City, has reported that BFAR personnel were also investigating a “problem in the water, probably chemical pollution,” to explain why the dolphins beached and sought shelter in the shallow waters. The dolphins have faced the same direction and their blowholes above water, they seemed to be avoiding something. “The dolphins were behaving in the same way, they have the same action. People were trying to drive them back into the sea but they refused. There could be chemical pollution somewhere which they were avoiding,” Rosario explained.Dolphins' disorientation is sometimes caused by the changes in earth's magnetic field “that cause the dolphins’ navigational mechanisms to go haywire,” Dr. Edgardo Gomez, professor emeritus of the University of the Philippines Marine Science Institute, said, adding that "it could also be chemicals in the water that affected the dolphins, although this should be proven by water tests." Philippine marine biologist Rizza Salinas said a possible cause for the stranding of large pods of distressed whales is that there could have been illegal dynamite fishing in the area.“This is very strange. What is also unusual is they appeared disoriented. I am on my way to Bataan on board BFAR’s patrol vessel. We will look into the situation. Our patrol boats are also on their way to the area. We are also getting experts on stranding," said BFAR director Malcolm Sarmiento Jr. Sarmiento, explaining that the highest number of stranded dolphins recorded by the BFAR was only 20 to 30. "It's something unusual. It's the first time that such a large pod has entered Manila Bay, and is acting strangely," Sarmiento added."Most strandings are caused by seaquakes, heat wave or disturbances at sea. Such disturbances affect the pressure underwater, which subsequently affects the dolphins’ eardrums and sense of balance, leading to their "disorientation." The creatures then will avoid diving in deeper parts of the ocean and will swim to shallow areas. They came from the north and were headed towards the South China Sea," Sarmiento explained, adding that the unusual occurrence may have also been caused when the pod could have been following a sick or injured leader.Sarmiento has appealed to the public not to inflict harm on the dolphins, which are considered threatened species. "Please do not harm the dolphins because they are already endangered. The authorities should also prevent the people who want to inflict harm on the creatures. They should be arrested, if needed." Melon-head dolphins are considered threatened species — meaning they are likely to become endangered in the future. "At around 12 noon, the dolphins were finally guided to the open seas, but residents in Hermosa near Mariveles were surprised to see the dolphins near their shoreline, but around 4:30 pm, all the dolphins have left the shoreline and swam towards into deeper waters," said Governor Garcia."The dolphins swam parallel back to Abucay, Hermosa, and Manila Bay before they were eventually herded farther offshore. There are theories that this phenomenon was a result of the Monday night lunar eclipse. The Fisheries Bureau will know after their tests,” Garcia added. Having suspected the dolphins’ habitat must have been disrupted, forcing them to flee and seek refuge in shallow waters, Senate of the Philippines Majority Leader, Juan Miguel Zubiri on Tuesday asked experts to probe the cause of the sudden appearance of more than 300 electra dolphins near the shores of Pilar town in Bataan province Tuesday morning.Senator Zubiri wanted the experts to examine the possibility that an earthquake study, involving an undersea experiment using blasting in the South China Sea by the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (L-DEO) - a collaborator of Columbia University - caused the abnormal behavior of the small whales.Citing an International Union for Conservation of Nature research concluding that the melon-headed whales may have been distracted by the South China Sea study, forcing the dolphins to wander in the shallow waters, Senator Zubiri said that “the earthquake study is a sea floor investigation project in the exclusive economic zone that includes Taiwan, China, Japan and the Philippines for its earthquake research. On top of saving stranded dolphins, we should find the cause for the tragedy in order to avoid them in the future and to be prepared when it occurs again," he explained.But according to Erlinton Olavare, Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) science research specialist, “no significant event was recorded by their stations in Bolinao, Sta. Cruz and Lubag, near Pilar at the time the dolphins were stranded Tuesday."Department of Environment and Natural Resources Secretary Jose L. Atienza, Jr. said Bataan Gov. Enrique “Tet” Garcia on Wednesday confirmed there was dynamite fishing in his province. “I asked him [Garcia] and he confirmed it. He also said he was battling this illegal activity,” said Atienza. “The causes of the acoustic trauma could have been sound waves caused by dynamite fishing or sounds emitted by passing ships or seaquakes,” Gov. Garcia said. "Dolphins are a 'cohesive' group and that they follow where their leader takes them. If the leader of the dolphins was sick, then the animal could have committed a “navigational error” and led the rest of the group to shore," said the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society (WDCS)."The pod of melon-headed whales (dolphins) on Manila Bay were injured by a rather nasty group of more than 120 undersea earthquakes. The swarm started with a small magnitude-4.5 event on December 21, 2008. Things got red-hot on January 3, 2009 when a magnitude-7.6 event erupted near the water’s edge on Papua Island in Indonesia, 700 miles southeast of Davao City in Mindanao. The 7.6 magnitude quake was followed by more than 120 major aftershocks each one capable by itself of inflicting injury on a pod of dolphins," said Capt. David Williams, a retired marine mammal researcher, a commercial sea captain for 40 years and active whale conservationist. Capt. Williams explained that whales and dolphins have small air sacs (pterygoid sinuses) that surround each inner ear and help then sense sound direction underwater. A damaged pterygoid air sac results in the loosing of echonavigation and echolocation. "In summary, my Seaquake Theory indicates that barotrauma, as a result of exposure to potent earthquake-induced changes in ambient pressure, solves the centuries-old mystery of why whales and dolphins mass-strand on beaches around the world," Capt. Williams concluded.An explosive blast and explosive decompression create a pressure wave that can induce barotrauma. The difference in pressure between internal organs and the outer surface of the body causes injuries to internal organs that contain gas, such as the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and ear.According to the Natural History Museum experts, whale and dolphins can become confused, mis-read the Earth's magnetic fields, fear certain sounds and get lost. Since 1913, it has investigated all strandings, more than 11,000 so far, and it runs the UK Whale and Dolphin Stranding Scheme. New Zealand's Project Jonah has claimed that the largest recorded beach stranding was in 1918 when 1,000 pilot whales were stranded on New Zealand's Chatham Islands. The last mass beaching in the Philippines was in 1956 when around 12 sperm whales were stranded in a coastal area in Capiz, amid at least 10 yearly strandings that happened in the country involving only one or two animals that were either sick or dying.Last January this year, Filipino fishermen have also rescued an endangered sea cow. The fishermen aided the beached sea cow to the deep sea, according to the Worldwide Fund for Nature.The Melon-headed whale (Peponocephala electra; many-toothed blackfish and electra dolphin) is a cetacean of the oceanic dolphin family (Delphinidae). As small members of the dolphingroup, it is closely related to the Pygmy Killer Whale and Pilot Whale, and collectively these dolphin species are known by the common name blackfish.The tender mammal can grow up to 2.7 meters (9 feet) and weigh as much as 210 kilograms (460pounds). With black triangular “mask” on its face, it appears dark gray to black in color, has no discernible beak and its head is shaped like a rounded melon, thus the name. Its primary diet is squid and fish. The Melon-headed whale lives well off-shore in all the world's tropical and sub-tropical oceans. At the northern fringes of its range it may also be found in the warm currents of temperate waters. Ordinarily, however, it is found beyond the continental shelf between 20° S and 20° N. The Melon-headed whale is widespread throughout the world's tropical waters, although not often seen by humans on account of its preference for deep water. It has been found in Ireland, Hawaii and Cebu, in the Philippines.As social species, they are covered by the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 in the United States. In July 2004, between 150 and 200 melon-headed whales occupied the shallow waters of Kauai island in Hawaii for over 28 hours, after which, they were rescued and guided to deeper water. This incident may have been related to nearby United States Navy sonar exercise. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) which includes the melon-headed whales in its Red List of threatened species said that the number of whales involved in mass stranding had increased in the last 30 years."The melon-headed whales are likely to be “vulnerable” to loud sounds, such as those generated by navy sonar and seismic exploration. Evidence from stranded whales also has indicated that they may have died after swallowing plastic items. It has been predicted that the whales will be affected by global climate change, but the impact is still unclear," the IUCN explained.According to this years edition of the World Wealth Report conducted by Merrill Lynch and Capgemini, the number of millionaires worldwide increased by 600,000 to 8.3m in 2004. The report defines a millionaire as an individual who has assets worth more than $1m excluding their primary residence.The combined wealth of all these high net worth individuals (HNWI's) exceeds $30 trillion. At a regional level, Australia, India, Singapore, and Hong Kong were the strongest performers - Australia added 47 new millionaires a day throughout 2004, whilst India added almost 25 a day.The following is a regional breakdown:North America: Number of millionaires grew by 9.7%; total wealth grew 10.2%.Asia-Pacific: Number of millionaires grew by 8.2%; total wealth grew 8.5%.Europe: Number of millionaires grew by 4.1%; total wealth grew 3.7%.Latin America: Number of millionaires grew by 6.3%; total wealth grew 7.9%.Middle East: Number of millionaires grew by 9.5%; total wealth grew 28.9%.Last Sunday evening at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California were the 67th Annual Golden Globe Awards hosted by English comedian Ricky Gervais.  The choice of Gervais as host was a move to increase viewership which declined to 15 million viewers last year from 27 million in 2004.  Canadian director James Cameron—who previously won in 1997 for his film Titanic—and his high-grossing 3D epic Avatar seemed to dominate the ceremony, taking home the awards for Best Director and Best Picture respectively.This annual event—which is often considered a preview of the Academy Awards—is conducted by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association to recognize achievements by those within both the motion picture and television industries internationally.In the midst of the festivities, the earthquake in Haiti was still on the minds of many attendees. For instance, some wore lapel ribbons to honor the victims, while others noted how strange it was for them to be enjoying something like an award ceremony in the midst of such tragedy.On incident of this was when American actress Meryl Streep got emotional while accepting the Best Actress award for her portrayal of chef Julia Child in the film Julia & Julia, "I am really honestly conflicted about how to have my 'happy movie self' in the face of everything that I'm aware of in the real world."  She went on to mention her late mother, who Streep said would have told her to be grateful that she does in fact have the money to donate to people of Haiti.Following this, American actor George Clooney officially announced his intention to coordinate a telethon that would air on NBC, among other networks worldwide, on January 22 to raise money for those affected by the quake.Below is a complete list of Sunday night's award recipients:Best Motion Picture – Drama - AvatarBest Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy - The HangoverBest Director - James Cameron, AvatarBest Actor – Motion Picture Drama - Jeff Bridges, Crazy HeartBest Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy - Robert Downey, Jr., Sherlock HolmesBest Actress – Motion Picture Drama - Sandra Bullock, The Blind SideBest Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy - Meryl Streep, Julia & JuliaBest Supporting Actor – Motion Picture - Christoph Waltz, Inglourious BasterdsBest Supporting Actress – Motion Picture - Mo'Nique, PreciousBest Screenplay - Jason Reitman & Sheldon Turner, Up in the AirBest Original Score - Michael Giacchino, UpBest Original Song - "The Weary Kind," Crazy HeartBest Foreign Language Film - The White Ribbon (Germany)Best Animated Feature Film - UpCecil B. DeMille Award for Lifetime Achievement in Motion Pictures - Martin ScorseseBest Drama Series - Mad MenBest Comedy Series - GleeBest Actor in a Television Drama Series - Michael C. Hall, DexterBest Actor in a Television Comedy Series - Alec Baldwin, 30 RockBest Actress in a Television Drama Series - Julianna Margulies, The Good WifeBest Actress in a Television Comedy Series - Toni Collette, United States of TaraBest Mini-Series or Motion Picture made for Television - Grey GardensBest Actor in a Mini-Series or Motion Picture made for Television - Kevin Bacon, Taking ChanceBest Actress in a Mini-Series or Motion Picture made for Television - Drew Barrymore, Grey GardensBest Supporting Actor in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture made for Television - John Lithgow, DexterBest Supporting Actress in a Series, Mini-Series or Motion Picture made for Television - Chloë Sevigny, Big LoveThe 88th annual Brita Kongreso (British Congress) in Letchworth, England drew to an official close, Sunday, after a weekend of presentations, courses, lectures, and activities in Esperanto. With the final excursion to Cambridge (town of the Third Universal Esperanto Congress in 1907) taking place on Monday, the event will draw to a final close at the end of today.The Brita Kongreso is an opportunity for Esperantists the world over to convene and spend the weekend being entertained, lectured, and socialising with other Esperantists in a relaxed atmosphere. This year, it was also host to a Guinness World Record attempt by French musician Jean-Marc Leclercq, a.k.a. jOmO, who successfully sang 25 songs in 25 different languages in an open air concert on Saturday, before providing evening entertainment within the main venue, Plinston Hall.For its 98th consecutive year, the East Texas State Fair opened for operations on Friday in Tyler, Texas in the United States. The event features brand new attractions including a high dive show, a wolf pack exhibit and an Old West exhibit. According to fair officials, the event is projected to bring in roughly US$7.5 million in total receipts. Heavy rains on Friday seemingly impacted the opening day attendance, with very few attendees present at 4pm local time.On Thursday evening, members of the city's Chamber of Commerce were treated to a preview of food offerings to be offered during the fair. The menu included corn dogs and funnel cakes, longstanding fair staples. The fair's President stated that all fair employees are now subjected to drug screening before, during and after the fair.The dive show's owner and producer told Wikinews his show had some unusual setup obstacles to overcome, compared to other fair venues. The show commonly uses giant concrete blocks as anchors for their dive tower, but for this fair, they had to anchor a portion of the tower to a tree, about 30 feet away. The show's tower stands eight stories high, with performers attempting to dive into a pool just 9.5 feet deep.To promote The Simpsons Movie that will be released July 26, 2007, over a dozen 7-Elevens in the United States have been transformed into Kwik-E-Marts, the grocery store from the popular TV series. Most of the other 7-Eleven stores will also sell products with brands reminding of The Simpsons, such as Buzz Cola, Krustyo's cereal, squishees, and Bart Simpson's favourite comic book Radioactive Man, but not Duff Beer, Homer's favourite drink.Inside the outlets are employees dressed like Simpsons characters such as Marge, Homer and Bart Simpson.In the 20th Century Fox series, the Springfield Kwik-E-Mart is run by Apu Nahasapeemapetilon, a stereotypical Indian shopkeeper who always greets his customers with "Thank you, come again", lives for his store but also changes the expiration dates on Kwik-E-Mart products.The stores that received the make-over are located in:Burbank, CAChicago, ILDallas, TXDenver, COLake Buena Vista, FL/Orlando, FLLas Vegas, NV/Henderson, NVLos Angeles, CANew York City, NYOrlando, FLSan Francisco, CA/Mountain View, CASeattle, WAVancouver, BC/Coquitlam, BCWashington, DC/Bladensburg, MDToday saw Edinburgh's Scottish National Portrait Gallery reopen following a two-and-a-half-year, £17.6m (US$27.4m) refurbishment. Conversion of office and storage areas sees 60% more space available for displays, and the world's first purpose-built portrait space is redefining what a portrait gallery should contain; amongst the displays are photographs of the Scottish landscape—portraits of the country itself.First opened in 1889, Sir Robert Rowand Anderson's red sandstone building was gifted to the nation by John Ritchie Findlay, then-owner of The Scotsman newspaper and, a well-known philanthropist. The original cost of construction between 1885 and 1890 is estimated at over 70,000 pounds sterling. Up until 1954, the building also housed the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland who moved to the National Museum of Scotland buildings on Chambers Street. The society's original meeting table now sits in the public part of the portrait gallery's library, stared down on by an array of busts and phrenological artefacts.Wikinewsie Brian McNeil, with other members of the press, received a guided tour of the gallery last Monday from Deputy Director Nicola Kalinsky. What Kalinsky described as an introduction to the gallery that previously took around 40 minutes, now takes in excess of an hour-and-a-half; with little in the way of questions asked, a more inquisitive tour group could readily take well over two hours to be guided round the seventeen exhibitions currently housed in the gallery.A substantial amount of the 60% additional exhibition space is readily apparent on the ground floor. On your left as you enter the gallery is the newly-fitted giant glass elevator, and the "Hot Scots" photographic portrait gallery. This exhibit is intended to show well-known Scottish faces, and will change over time as people fall out of favour, and others take their place. A substantial number of the people now being highlighted are current, and recent, cast members from the BBC's Doctor Who series.The new elevator (left) is the most visible change to improve disabled access to the gallery. Prior to the renovation work, access was only 'on request' through staff using a wooden ramp to allow wheelchair access. The entire Queen Street front of the building is reworked with sloping access in addition to the original steps. Whilst a lift was previously available within the gallery, it was only large enough for two people; when used for a wheelchair, it was so cramped that any disabled person's helper had to go up or down separately from them.The gallery expects that the renovation work will see visitor numbers double from before the 2009 closure to around 300,000 each year. As with many of Edinburgh's museums and galleries, access is free to the public. The expected significant increase in numbers has seen them working closely with the National Museum of Scotland, which was itself reopened earlier this year after extensive refurbishment work; improved access for wheelchair users also makes it far easier for mothers with baby buggies to access the gallery – prompting more thought on issues as seemingly small as nappy-changing – as Patricia Convery, the gallery's Head of Press, told Wikinews, a great deal of thought went into the practicalities of increased visitor numbers, and what is needed to ensure as many visitors as possible have a good experience at the gallery.The International Watch Company (IWC) is organizing an on-line auction to take place in the period from December 13 to December 20, 2006. The proceeds of the auction will be used for offering support to a charitable organization - Association Vol de Nuit/Vuelo Nocturno. The main task and responsibility of the association lies in taking care of Buenos Aires children who live in reduced circumstances. Association Vol de Nuit/Vuelo Nocturno, a humanitarian institution, was established in 2003. The Foundation has built close cooperation with the city's schools, homes and other organizations helping street children. The proceeds of the IWC on-line auction are to be benefited to the major projects carried out by the Foundation. Da Vinci is the name of a rarity timepiece chosen by the IWC to be put for auction.  The watch itself was developed back in 1990 as a part of a limited edition of just 110 pieces. It represents a stainless steel model featuring a white dial in English which is provided with a perpetual calendar function. The exclusive watch is on the list of the most sought-after items among connoisseurs of High Horology. This is the ninth time the IWC is holding an auction for charitable purposes and every time dozens of watch collectors and enthusiasts take part in the event. The bidders are invited to visit the official site of the Company.The Sesame Place theme park in Langhorne, Pennsylvania opened for its 2007 season this morning, adding Abby Cadabby to its all-star lineup of characters that children can meet.Described as a "sweet, inquisitive enthusiastic three-year-old fairy-in-training" who loves making new friends, the character stars in a musical show called Abby Cadabby's Treasure Hunt. Featuring all of the stars of Sesame Street, the production joins Elmo's World Live: Fishes.Abby was not the first recurring female character to be introduced to Sesame Street since 1993, as press materials for season 37 of Sesame Street proclaimed; Phoebe and Googel from the short-lived Monster's Clubhouse segment both hold that title. She is however the first new female character since 1993 to show any lasting power.  Her performer, Leslie Carrara, says Abby will appear in "almost every episode next season".The Langhorne, Pennsylvania attraction was opened in 1980, sparking robust commercial development in the town. While similar parks have opened in Irving, Texas, Tokyo, Japan, Monterrey, Mexico and São Paulo, Brazil, none of them managed to strike the hearts and minds of tourists.Roller coaster Super Grover's Vapor Trail, the Sky Splash water ride, and the "Rock Around the Block" musical parade all return for the 2007 season, as do other rides, shows, and physical play activities.The park is open Friday through Sunday until 25 May, when the park begins opening daily. After Labor Day, Sesame Place is open weekends only until 27 October 2007.For ABC, the fifth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks will be marked with a new kind of controversy over alleged political motives in a new miniseries, slated to be aired on prime-time slots this coming Monday and Tuesday.Titled The Path to 9/11, the 5-hour film is slated to be aired over the course of 2 nights, culminating on Monday with dramatizations of the October 2000 attacks on the US Navy ship, USS Cole, as well as fictionalized portrayals of the attacks on the World Trade Center towers, which killed 2,973. Many officials and watchdogs, however, have criticized the film for allegedly stretching and fabricating the truth. Samuel R. Berger, a national security adviser made a statement denouncing the film claiming the film "flagrantly misrepresents my personal actions." Former secretary of state Madeleine Albright called one scene involving her "false and defamatory," and former White House aide Bruce R. Lindsey said "it is unconscionable to mislead the American public about one of the most horrendous tragedies our country has ever known." A flurry of on-line email campaigns, protesting the film and demanding it be corrected or not aired, has erupted. According to the liberal group Truemajority, "It's not just that ABC's movie is slanted. Big parts of it are simply untrue. The producer himself even admitted to simply improvising a key scene which depicts the Clinton administration letting bin Laden go when they had him in their sights -- a complete fabrication. Last night, the movie's star, Harvey Keitel, said 'It turned out not all the facts were correct.'"According to ABC's entertainment division, the film is a "dramatization... not a documentary." However, several key scenes, which critics allege distort the September 11 commission's report on which the film is based, are being reworked, reshot, or pulled altogether, and ABC is reportedly "mulling the idea of yanking the mini altogether." For ABC, credibility, along with what is reported to be millions of dollars spent in advertising, is on the line. The film includes many noted actors, including Donnie Wahlberg, Patricia Heaton, and Harvey Keitel, who plays counterterrorism official John O'Neil. However, criticism has come from within as well. Many who worked on the film  have spoken out, claiming the film's accuracy and objectivity is questionable. One writer, Cyrus Nowrasteh, in an interview with Los Angeles radio station KRLA-AM, claimed that moments had been improvised, and writer James Bamford claimed on MSNBC that an FBI agent working as a consultant on the film quit due to allegations of fabrication.Action committees from all across the political spectrum have made statements on the film, including liberal watchdog MoveOn.org, which, in a recent statement to its members, stated that "ABC shouldn't have any role in the political exploitation of 9/11.""This docudrama is designed to do just that," the statement continued. "It's spreading a false message to millions of viewers across the country.""No one has seen the final version of the film, because the editing process is not yet complete, so criticisms of film specifics are premature and irresponsible," said Disney, the company that owns ABC.Peter Jennings, longtime anchor of ABC's World News Tonight died Sunday in Manhattan after a four month fight with lung cancer. From the anchor desk or from the field, Jennings covered more than 40 years of national and international news including the erection and destruction of the Berlin Wall, the fall of apartheid, the demise of communism in Europe, the millennium, and the September 11 terrorist attacks.Jennings was honored with numerous awards for journalism, including 16 Emmys, two George Foster Peabody Awards, several Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Awards and several Overseas Press Club Awards. Jennings told viewers back in April in a taped message that he had lung cancer and was going to start chemotherapy treatment for it. He stated he would continue to host World News Tonight when it was possible, although he never again appeared on the broadcast. During his absence, Charles Gibson and Elizabeth Vargas filled in for Jennings. It is unknown who will replace Jennings at this time.Jennings first broadcast experience came at age nine, when he hosted his own radio show for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. Following many years of reporting from the Middle East, Jennings began appearing on World News Tonight in 1978, and became its sole anchor in 1983. During the 1980s and early 1990s, the broadcast became the most popular network news program in the US, surpassing the CBS Evening News in 1986. Jennings followed in his father's footsteps: Charles Jennings served as Canada's first network news anchorman on the CBC.A native of Canada, Jennings became a U.S. citizen in 2003. He is survived by his wife, Kayce, his daughter, Elizabeth (25), his son, Christopher (23), and his sister, Sarah.Soon after he died his wife, Kayce Freed, issued this statement: "Peter died with his family around him, without pain and in peace. He knew he'd lived a good life."ABC News anchorman Peter Jennings was diagnosed this week with lung cancer. Despite beginning out-patient treatment next week which will involve chemotherapy, Jennings will continue to front ABC's 'World News Tonight' show, "to the extent he can do so comfortably", says ABC News."Almost 10 million Americans are living with cancer," Jennings told ABC staff on Tuesday. "I am sure I will learn from them how to cope with the facts of life that none of us anticipated." The 66-year-old anchor man, who gave up smoking several years ago, added: "I hope it goes without saying that a journalist who doesn't value deeply the audience's loyalty should be in another line of work."Jennings began his career at ABC News in 1964 and in 1983 was made senior editor and anchor of World News Tonight. Due to ill health, he was unable to work during his network's special report on the recent death of Pope John Paul II.An investigation into Scientology and Tom Cruise which was set to air this past Friday on the American television program 20/20 was removed from broadcast by ABC News. This is not the first time that ABC News has pulled an investigation into Scientology from airing on 20/20. A press release published by ABC on Thursday announced the scheduled airing of the investigation. It described the program as "an in-depth look" by Elizabeth Vargas into the recent report on Tom Cruise and Scientology by journalist Maureen Orth for Vanity Fair in its October 2012 publication.An analysis of the situation by Editor-in-Chief Tony Ortega of The Village Voice pointed out that in 2008, actor and former Scientologist Jason Beghe was interviewed by Elizabeth Vargas after he had flown to New York. Beghe recounted to Vargas his experiences within Scientology and his decision to cease activity in the organization. However, this interview by Vargas was never shown on ABC. Ortega noted, "Then, Friday night, ABC caved again, and this time much more publicly." He highlighted a television screenshot which displays clearly the description given by ABC for the 20/20 program scheduled for Friday: "20/20. New. 'Lovestyles of the Rich and Famous; The Camera Never Lies' Journalist Maureen Orth discusses her recent article in Vanity Fair on Scientology and actor Tom Cruise; celebrity".According to Ortega, this was to be a significant investigation into Scientology. It was going to cover topics including the recent divorce of actress Katie Holmes from Tom Cruise, the role of minors within the Scientology organization, material on Scientology's chief David Miscavige, and controversy regarding the elite Scientology group known as the Sea Org. Ortega was himself interviewed as part of the investigation, which he was told would comprise an hour-long broadcast. In addition to Ortega, former Scientologists Marc Headley and his wife Claire were interviewed by ABC News for the 20/20 piece which they were informed would be complemented by a news segment on Nightline. Claire told the camera of her two mandatory abortions she experienced while a member of the Sea Org in Scientology; Ortega reported that this interview moved the ABC television crew to tears.Marc Headley confirmed that he had learned of the ABC News decision. In a post Friday to a legal fund webpage he set up to support his family with litigation costs from Scientology, he commented: "We just got word that both ABC 20/20 & Nightline have pulled the TV shows that were going to air tonight. It appears that someone at OSA is trying to sandbag the downstats over the next few weeks." OSA is an abbreviation for the Office of Special Affairs — a department within Scientology which has been compared to an intelligence agency that handles legal affairs and public relations. Downstat refers to a negative impact on statistics gathered by Scientology members of the Sea Org due to critical investigations of the organization by the media.The U.S. television network ABC says its 24-hour news network, ABC News Now, will become a permanent 24-hour television news network starting in July. Currently, the operation is only available on the Internet as a streaming media web site.The network started as a experiment by the Walt Disney Company-owned ABC in the summer of 2004 during the U.S. presidential campaign nomination conventions. It was mostly broadcast as a subchannel or shared channel within the bandwidth of an existing digital television (DTV) channel already owned by ABC.  For instance if the local ABC affiliate is on Channel 7 with a DTV channel of 23, then ABC News Now may have been available on digital channel 23.1, sharing the same bandwidth.Because few households in the U.S. are equipped to tune in digital over-the-air sub-channels, and virtually none are carried on local cable companies, ratings were low for the fledgling digital channel. Adding to that technical difficulty, cable carriage of the network was small. ABC News Now was delivered to only 6 of the 110 million U.S. households via cable. Most viewers of the network, 30 million at last count, watched the network via the Internet.Citing money reasons, ABC shuttered the over-the-air ABC News Now broadcasts in January to focus on building the web-based service. But come July, ABC plans to return its news network and its 20 original programs to local TV stations. Without any commitment from national cable or satellite companies, ABC will return to digital sub-channels on local DTV transmissions.The American TV show Alias will end in May 2006 after five seasons, ABC said Wednesday. No reason for the cancellation has been given. Alias stars Jennifer Garner as top secret CIA agent Sydney Bristow. Garner has won a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors Guild award for her performances in the show.Alias currently airs Thursdays at 8:00 PM EST on ABC. This has led to a drop in ratings as it is opposite CBS' popular reality TV show Survivor: Guatemala.Last season Alias averaged 10.3 million viewers per week according to Nielsen Media Research. This season they only averaged 7 million viewers per week.HOLLYWOOD, California — Following the example set by the Golden Globes, Martin Scorsese's The Aviator leads the nominees going into Sunday's 77th Academy Awards ceremony. The biopic depicting the life of aviation pioneer Howard Hughes, with nominations in 11 categories. Tied behind, nominated in seven categories, are Marc Forster's Finding Neverland and Million Dollar Baby.Notably missing from the Best Picture category are two of last year's most controversial films "The Passion of the Christ" and "Fahrenheit 9/11", voters instead opting with biopic Ray and Golden Globes Best Comedy winner Sideways.Competing for best actor are Jamie Foxx, Clint Eastwood, Leonardo DiCaprio and Hotel Rwanda's Don Cheadle.Wednesday, January 26, 2005 HOLLYWOOD, California —Academy Award®-winning actor Tim Robbins has been tapped to present at the 77th Academy Awards®, telecast producer Gil Cates announced today.Robbins received his first acting Oscar last year at the 76th Academy Awards, for his supporting role in Mystic River. In 1995, he received a nomination for directing Dead Man Walking. Robbins is currently filming War of the Worlds and will be seen next in The Secret Life of Words.Meanwhile, Documentary category rules for the 78th Annual Academy Awards® have been changed by the Board of Governors of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to exempt documentaries "with a true theatrical rollout" from the rules' television blackout provision. The change will apply to documentaries released during the 2005 Academy Awards year. Documentary branch executive committee chair Freida Lee Mock said the theatrical exhibition requirements of the rules for the documentary awards were instituted in 2003 at the branch's request to encourage commercial theatrical runs for documentary films. "Our new rules had a positive impact," Mock said. "Since 2003 there have been a growing number of documentary theatrical releases, and that growth exploded this summer." But some of the films bumped up against the television blackout provisions of the rule and were thereby prevented from having a television exhibition until a nine-month time period had expired. The Academy isn't trying to prevent television exhibition for documentaries that have had a successful theatrical run, Mock said, "but we want documentaries to be able to exploit their theatrical release as fully as possible, so we've modified the rules to exempt those documentaries from the blackout provisions." Even for documentaries with more modest theatrical runs, the 2005 rules reduce the blackout window to six months. To qualify for exemption a film must have had a minimum of 25 commercial exhibitions for paid admission in motion picture theaters in 15 states, each exhibition to be at least two consecutive days. (Exhibitions held at festivals, benefits, special events and the like do not qualify under this provision.) The 2005 rules also contain a provision requiring that short documentaries "must be contractually available for theatrical release for six months after receiving a nomination" unless they have met the test for the new blackout exemption.Jennifer Jones, leading lady in two dozen Hollywood pictures and an Academy Award winner for her first major film, 1943's The Song of Bernadette, died Thursday at her home in Malibu, California. She was 90.Born Phyllis Lee Isley in Tulsa, Oklahoma on March 2, 1919, her pursuit of fame as an actress took her to New York City at the age of 19, leaving for Hollywood one year later. She changed her name to Jennifer Jones while testing for a part in a David O. Selznick movie; in 1949, Selznick, who produced Gone with the Wind, would become her second and perhaps highest-profile husband.Jones broke into dramatic film roles in 1943 as the lead in The Song of Bernadette, a movie about a nun who saw visions of the Virgin Mary in Lourdes, France in 1858. She won an Academy Award for Best Actress for the role, and became a star well in-demand, earning Academy Award nominations the next three years in a row for the films Since You Went Away, Love Letters and Duel in the Sun.Jones was a popular movie actress well into the 1950s. She starred as a Eurasian doctor, Han Suyin, in the 1955 film Love is a Many-Splendored Thing, earning her a fifth and final Academy Award nomination. After a well-received turn in a film adaptation of Ernest Hemingway's A Farewell to Arms in 1957, she started to take on fewer and fewer movie roles. She would make her final on-camera appearance in the 1974 disaster movie The Towering Inferno.Jones was married three times and was survived by one of her three children, Robert Walker, Jr., from her first marriage to Robert Walker. She married for a third and final time in 1971 to industrialist Norton Simon, six years after the death of her second husband David O. Selznick. The couple's collection of South Asian art, acquired while living in India, is now showcased in the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, California. Jones was an active force behind the operations of the museum, serving as chairman from Simon's death in 1993 to 2003, and as trustee emeritus until her own death.On Friday, US director John G. Avildsen, best known for directing the 1976 film Rocky for which he won an Academy Award for the Best Director and the 1980s The Karate Kid trilogy, died at the age of 81. His son, Anthony, told the Los Angeles Times that Avildsen died due to pancreatic cancer at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California.Actors Sylvester Stallone, Ralph Macchio, Carl Weathers, Joe Manganiello, Thaao Penghlis; Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer CEO Gary Barber and Directors Guild of America President Paris Barclay paid tribute to Avildsen.Raised in Oak Park, Illinois, Avildsen began his cinematography career with advertising agencies. He later served as an assistant director for filmmakers like Arthur Penn and Otto Preminger.Avildsen directed his first film Turn on to Love, which was released in 1969. A year later, he directed Joe and in 1973, he directed Save the Tiger starring Jack Lemmon. Lemmon won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in the 1973 movie.Avildsen directed Rocky in 1976, starring Stallone, which won three Academy Awards, including the Best Picture and the Best Director. Fourteen years later he directed Rocky V. He directed the first three films of The Karate Kid, all starring Macchio and Pat Morita in the 1980s.Avildsen also directed W.W. and the Dixie Dancekings in 1975, Neighbors in 1981, 1989 film Lean on Me, and the 1994 film 8 Seconds. 1999's Inferno was his last movie.Avildsen's accomplishments were documented in this year's documentary film John G. Avildsen: King of the Underdogs, which premiered at the Santa Barbara International Film Festival.Academy Award-winning film director Paul Haggis declared to Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis that he had decided to leave the Church of Scientology after being a member for 35 years.  His letter to Davis was posted Saturday on the blog of former high-ranking Scientology official Marty Rathbun.  Haggis received Academy Awards for writing and producing the 2004 film Crash, which he also directed.Rathbun confirmed the authenticity of the letter by Haggis, and The Hollywood Reporter also confirmed it with a friend of the director. At his blog, Rathbun has been critical of Scientology's current leader David Miscavige. In the June article "Former Scientology executives say leader David Miscavige abused staff", Wikinews reported on criticism by Rathbun and other high-ranking officials that was published in a series of investigative articles in the St. Petersburg Times. In his letter to Davis, Haggis wrote that he read the series in the St. Petersburg Times, where these former Scientology officials accused David Miscavige of physically abusing Scientologists. He criticized the manner in which the Church of Scientology attempted to smear the former officials after they spoke out against the organization.Well-known celebrity Scientologists include actors Tom Cruise and John Travolta. Haggis had not been known to be a vocal public supporter of Scientology prior to his declaration to Davis that he was leaving the organization.He expressed his disappointment to Davis, son of actress Anne Archer, that the San Diego, California branch of the Church of Scientology supported Proposition 8. Proposition 8 removed the rights of same-sex couples to marry in California. The San Diego Church of Scientology was listed along with other groups on a Proposition 8 supporters website, but it was later removed. Haggis said that Davis initially told him he would do something about the San Diego Church of Scientology's support for Proposition 8, but in the end Davis did not take action about this. Haggis called the inaction by Davis with regard to the San Diego Church of Scientology's stance on homosexuality "cowardly". Scientology views of homosexuality are controversial, and the introductory work to the topic Dianetics by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard describes homosexuality as a form of sexual perversion. Haggis wrote to Davis that he did not wish to stay a member "of an organization where gay-bashing was tolerated", and called such behavior "indefensible". Actress Deborah Rennard, wife of Haggis, was introduced to Scientology by her parents. According to Haggis, the Scientology practice of "disconnection" was imposed on Rennard and her husband, and they were ordered to disconnect from her parents because Rennard's parents had violated a rule of the organization. Due to having undergone a personal experience with regard to Scientology's practice of disconnection, Haggis was surprised to hear Davis deny the policy existed in an interview with CNN journalist John Roberts.He concluded his letter to Davis by noting that his Scientologist friends might disassociate from him due to his words, writing, "...I am fully aware that some of my friends may choose to no longer associate with me, or in some cases work with me. I will always take their calls, as I always took yours. However, I have finally come to the conclusion that I can no longer be a part of this group. Frankly, I had to look no further than your refusal to denounce the church's anti-gay stance, and the indefensible actions, and inactions, of those who condone this behavior within the organization. I am only ashamed that I waited this many months to act. I hereby resign my membership in the Church of Scientology." Roger Friedman of The Hollywood Reporter described the film director's decision to leave the Church of Scientology as "a stunning move". Friedman wrote that "Haggis has taken an enormous step here, and one that should resonate among all celebrity Scientologists." Tony Ortega of The Village Voice called Haggis's declaration to Davis "a remarkable letter", and Gina Serpe of E! Online wrote "True, he was nowhere near the  religion's most famous celebrity practitioner, but he will no doubt now go down as one of its most infamous, thanks to the inevitably viral publication of his resignation letter". Writing for Movieline, Kyle Buchanan characterized the letter by Haggis as "a candid, confrontational letter to Scientology top brass", and said "It's a must-read." Radar Online observed "In a shock heard-round-the-Scientology world, Paul Haggis has very publicly quit the organization." Foster Kamer wrote for Gawker that the letter by Haggis was "incredibly damning" to Scientology, and Adam McDowell of National Post called it "a scathing letter about church policy". Vicki Hyman of The Star-Ledger called Haggis "the most famous name (if not face) to renounce the Church of Scientology", and Xan Brooks wrote in The Guardian that "the Church of Scientology lost one of its most high-profile members". According to The Guardian, the Church of Scientology has not yet responded publicly to the statements made by Haggis in his letter to Davis.Haggis has multiple credits in film, including work as writer-director for Crash, and writer for Million Dollar Baby (directed by Clint Eastwood), Casino Royale, Quantum of Solace, and Letters From Iwo Jima. Both Million Dollar Baby (2004) and Crash (2005) won Academy Awards for Best Picture, making Haggis the first film writer since 1950 to pen movies which won Best Picture Oscars in consecutive years. He is highly-regarded for his work as a humanitarian and for his civil liberties work, and his letter includes a list of awards he has received related to his dedication to civil rights. He is currently working on the film The Next Three Days, which includes actors Liam Neeson, Russell Crowe, and former Scientologist Jason Beghe. Beghe previously went public with his own criticism after leaving the Church of Scientology, and described how members must pay large amounts of money to advance in Scientology levels.An accident on the set of British television show Heartbeat has taken place, involving five cast and crew members who are yet to be identified. It is believed that a tractor rolled down an embankment while filming near Whitby, North Yorkshire. Police say that none of the injuries is said to be life-threatening. A spokeswoman for the ITV show released a statement saying that a guest actor received chest injuries. One actor was flown to Middlesbrough, one was taken to a hospital in Whitby and the remaining three were taken to Scarborough's district hospital. Four of the victims have been released. Heartbeat is a television drama set in the 1960s which follows a group of police officers in Yorkshire. The show has also brought about a medical spin-off, The Royal. Heartbeat returns to British television later in the year. The Health and Safety Executive is investigating the circumstances of the accident.British newspapers have reported that the current series, the 18th, will be the last and both Heartbeat and The Royal will not be recommissioned.An email accidentally sent to Jeff Crouse of the Anti-Advertising Agency recently brought the controversial techniques of the advertising firm Kluger Agency under fire. "I'm writing because we feel you may be a good company to participate in a brand integration campaign within the actual lyrics of one of the worlds most famous recording artists upcoming song/album," the email read, offering to place Jeff Crouse's fake brand, Double Happiness Jeans, into the songs of popular artists. It was posted on his blog along with a reply that mocked Kluger and brought ridicule and criticism against Adam Kugler and his agency. According to Crouse, Kluger emailed him once again to claim it had been an automated email, and later requested that Crouse remove the post and comments criticizing himself and his agency, threatening a $150,000 lawsuit against Crouse for defamation. Kluger Agency is known for advertising brands like Abercrombie & Fitch, Mercedes-Benz, and Nike by inserting the brand names in the songs of popular artists like Mariah Carey, Black Eyed Peas, Fall Out Boy, Pink, Lady GaGa and Ludacris. Kluger, founded in 2006, represents over 170 corporations and focuses on well-known record labels.Kluger and his PR team have come forward defending the advertising techniques, stating that they do not have songs made just for the products in question and do not infringe on artistic integrity. "Now, we don't want an artist to write a song specifically to promote a brand, we just feel that if it's a product that's admired by the artist and fits his/her image, we now have the capability of leveling out the playing field and making things financially beneficial for all parties involved," he was quoted saying to Wired.However, the agency's website shows video examples of its product placement, with brand images and names often being repeated, pointed at, praised, or being the basis of the song. The website also advertises that "a successful 'brand-dropping' campaign will imprint [the] brand name and product into your market's subconscious".A family has a video of what they claim to be "Tigger" punching their son. Visiting the Disney-MGM Studios on Saturday, Jerry Monaco Jr. of New Hampshire alleges that Tigger purposely punched him without provocation. The footage was caught on the family's video camera, and the Monacos and their attorney are demanding an apology from the actor.The costumed character actor at the time was employee Michael J. Fedelem.The contact between the actor's mitted hand and the teen's face is brief. The video shows the following sequence of events:Monaco Jr.'s left arm is moving behind Tigger, while Tigger's right arm is on Monaco Jr's shoulders.Tigger abruptly moves his right arm down and around, sweeping Monaco Jr.'s left arm off of his back, pinning Monaco Jr.'s arm to his body.Tigger then starts rotating clockwise, wherein Tigger's left arm moves across his body.  It appears that Tigger briefly pulls down on his chin, in what looks like a move to possibly prevent the head from flying off.Monaco Jr. stumbles, in combination with his arm being pinned and Tigger's rotation.Tigger's left hand appears to hit Monaco Jr.'s head or face.Monaco Jr. appears to hit Tigger in the head area with his free right hand.The footage is very brief. It shows little before or after the punch, a total of only four seconds. Jean Erik Redrupp, General Manager of Park Operations, stated to Local 6 that "I just wanted to follow up with you and let you know that we have spoken to the cast member in question and have reacted very strongly toward him."Monaco Sr. told the station that "The general manager apologized to me. Everybody will come up and apologize to me but Tigger. He won't be a man about it and get out of the costume and come out and apologize to my son. I didn't want VIP treatment. I didn't want an extra day at Disney. I didn't want any of that. I wanted him to apologize and that is the one thing that they won't do." In the statement, he did not clarify whom "everybody" was.Both Disney and the Orange County Sheriff's Office launched investigations on Saturday. Fedelem has been suspended by the company until the investigation is complete. Disney commented in a statement to CBS News that: "We received the complaint alleging that a character struck a guest; guest and character altercation is not tolerated. The Orange County sheriff is launching an investigation and we are conducting our own investigation and we have suspended the cast member pending the outcome."Monaco Sr. took his son to the hospital the night after the altercation. Monaco Jr. claimed that he had neck pains. "I'm a little sore and most of the pain is gone because I have medicine," he told the CBS Early Show today.In footage, Monaco has no visible bruising.The videotape was in regular rotation on news stations on Sunday and Monday. As of 4:00 pm ET 8 January 2007, Google News listed over five hundred news outlets filing stories on the incident.Late last month, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) filed objections to the United States Government's 'secret' attempts to obtain Twitter account information relating to WikiLeaks. The ACLU and EFF cite First and Fourth amendment issues as overriding reasons to overturn government attempts to keep their investigation secret; and, that with Birgitta Jonsdottir being an Icelandic Parliamentarian, the issue has serious international implications.The case, titled "In the Matter of the 2703(d) Order Relating to Twitter Accounts: Wikileaks, Rop_G, IOERROR; and BirgittaJ", has been in the EFF's sights since late last year when they became aware of the US government's attempts to investigate WikiLeaks-related communications using the popular microblogging service.Acting teacher and director Milton Katselas died Friday at age 75, after suffering from heart failure at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California. He began the Beverly Hills Playhouse in 1978 and taught acting classes there to noted actors including George Clooney and Gene Hackman. Katselas is survived by a sister and two brothers.Katselas directed an off-Broadway production of Edward Albee's The Zoo Story, and received a Tony Award nomination for his 1969 direction of Butterflies are Free. Actress Blythe Danner won a Tony Award for her role in Butterflies are Free under Katselas' direction. He moved to California to direct the film version of that play, and went on to direct films and television movies. Actress Eileen Heckart received an Academy Award for her role in the film version of Butterflies are Free.Katselas directed the San Francisco and Los Angeles productions of the play P.S. Your Cat Is Dead! by playwright James Kirkwood, Jr. In his author's notes in the publication of the script, Kirkwood acknowledged Katselas, and wrote that the plays were "directed with incredible energy and enthusiasm by Milton Katselas, to whom I am extremely indebted".Katselas directed the television movie Strangers: Story of a Mother and Daughter, and actress Bette Davis received an Emmy Award for her role in the movie. Katselas taught many famous actors including Michelle Pfeiffer, Richard Gere, Robert Duvall, Jack Lemmon, Al Pacino, Goldie Hawn, Christopher Walken, Burt Reynolds, George C. Scott, Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, Alec Baldwin, and Patrick Swayze. Katselas was credited with being able to nurture actors with raw talent so that they could develop strong Hollywood careers. He utilized innovative techniques in his courses - one course called "Terrorist Theatre" had a simple premise: successfully get an acting role within six weeks or leave the course.He grew up in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania to parents who had immigrated from Greece, and graduated from Carnegie Mellon. He studied acting with Lee Strasberg in New York at the Actors Studio, and received advice from directors Joshua Logan and Elia Kazan.Katselas was a prominent Scientologist, and a July 2007 profile on Katselas in The New York Times Magazine observed that some of his students stopped taking courses at the Beverly Hills Playhouse because they felt they had been pressured to join the Church of Scientology. According to the article, Katselas credited Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard "for much of his success in life", and one of his students works at Scientology's Celebrity Centre. The article commented that some in Los Angeles view the Beverly Hills Playhouse as "a recruitment center for Scientology".Katselas met L. Ron Hubbard after moving to California, and began studying Scientology in 1965. The New York Times Magazine reported that he had reached the level of "Operating Thetan, Level 5, or O.T. V." in 2007. According to The New York Times Magazine when Scientologists proceed up the "The Bridge to Total Freedom" they learn the story of Xenu, and that: "75 million years ago the evil alien Xenu solved galactic overpopulation by dumping 13.5 trillion beings in volcanoes on Earth, where they were vaporized, scattering their souls." A Church of Scientology publication, Source, lists Katselas as reaching O.T. V. in 1989.Though some actors felt pressured to join the Church of Scientology after taking courses at the Beverly Hills Playhouse, at least one individual felt Katselas was not active enough with the organization. Actress Jenna Elfman left the Beverly Hills Playhouse because she felt Katselas was not committed enough to Scientology. Katselas had previously directed Elfman in half of Visions and Lovers: Variations on a Theme, two one-act plays about relationships that he had written himself. In 1999 Katselas had planned to adapt the script of Visions and Lovers to a film version, and Elfman was set to reprise her role from the play. In an article in Variety about the project, Elfman commented on her experience working with Katselas: "He is brilliant, and knows me so well as a person and an actress that he gets the most out of me."Other prominent Scientologist actors who have studied under Katselas include Giovanni Ribisi, Jason Lee, and Leah Remini. According to Rolling Stone, Katselas also recruited actress Kelly Preston to Scientology. Actress Nancy Cartwright (the voice of Bart Simpson), told Scientology publication Celebrity that Katselas motivated her to get more active in Scientology, and she stated she took the organization's "Purification Rundown" and her life "took off completely".Anne Archer was introduced to Scientology while studying at the Beverly Hills Playhouse, as was former Scientologist and now outspoken critic actor Jason Beghe. Beghe told Roger Friedman of FOX News in April 2008 that "He [Katselas] gets kickbacks", and that he was brought to a Scientology center by fellow Beverly Hills Playhouse classmate Bodhi Elfman, Jenna Elfman's husband. In a 1998 article for Buzz Magazine, Randye Hoder wrote "In his class, Katselas is careful not to label anything as a tenet of Scientology, but there is no question that the church's influence seeps into the playhouse."Anne Archer's husband and fellow Scientologist, producer Terry Jastrow, commented to The New York Times Magazine that Katselas changed the way he experiences life on a day-to-day basis: "I go out in the world and look at human behavior now. I see a woman or man interacting with a saleslady, and I see the artistry in it. Life is an endless unspooling of art, of acting, of painting, of architecture. And where did I learn that? From Milton." Actor Anthony Head of Buffy the Vampire Slayer spoke highly of Katselas in a 2002 interview with San Francisco Chronicle: "He's this wonderfully intuitive teacher and his premise is basically: The only real barriers are the ones we put in front of ourselves. If you say, 'My character wouldn't do that' -- bollocks! Ultimately it's you who wouldn't say that. Who knows what your character might do." In the acknowledgements of her 2004 autobiography Are You Hungry, Dear?: Life, Laughs, and Lasagna, actress Doris Roberts wrote: "I thank my friend and acting teacher, the incredible Milton Katselas, for his insights, wisdom, and inspiration, which have helped make me the actress that I am."Katselas authored two books: Dreams Into Action: Getting What You Want, first published in 1996 by Dove Books, and Acting Class: Take a Seat, which came out earlier this month. Dreams Into Action, a New York Times Bestseller, sought to modify motivational acting exercises to the field of business. In an interview in the 2007 book Acting Teachers of America, Katselas commented on his experiences as an acting teacher over the years: "I have very special teachers here at the Beverly Hills Playhouse—some have been with me for over twenty-five years. I believe that to make a difference over the long haul, we need to train teachers. I really care about the craft of acting. It's absolutely necessary to take the time and patience to really develop an actor."The US comedy actor Robin Williams was found dead yesterday by the Marin County, California Sheriff's Office, apparently by asphyxiation. Williams had been suffering from depression and announced he would re-engage in a twelve-step program.Williams was the star of a whole series of comedy films winning an Oscar for his role in Good Will Hunting and Golden Globes for his acting in Good Morning, Vietnam, Mrs. Doubtfire, and The Fisher King. As well as films and television, Williams did stand-up comedy and appeared on chat shows; he appeared on the finale of Johnny Carson's tenure hosting The Tonight Show.Williams' initial claim to national fame was his role in Mork and Mindy where he played an alien who comes to earth, falls in love and gets married to a woman, Mindy McConnell, played by Pam Dawber.Susan Schneider, Williams' wife, said: "This morning, I lost my husband and my best friend, while the world lost one of its most beloved artists and beautiful human beings. I am utterly heartbroken. On behalf of Robin's family, we are asking for privacy during our time of profound grief. As he is remembered, it is our hope the focus will not be on Robin's death, but on the countless moments of joy and laughter he gave to millions."President Barack Obama paid tribute to Williams: "Robin Williams was an airman, a doctor, a genie, a nanny, a president, a professor, a bangarang Peter Pan and everything in between. But he was one of a kind. He arrived in our lives as an alien — but he ended up touching every element of the human spirit. He made us laugh. He made us cry. He gave his immeasurable talent freely and generously to those who needed it most — from our troops stationed abroad to the marginalised on our own streets. The Obama family offers our condolences to Robin's family, his friends, and everyone who found their voice and their verse thanks to Robin Williams."Comedian Steve Martin tweeted: "I could not be more stunned by the loss of Robin Williams, mensch, great talent, acting partner, genuine soul."Ellen DeGeneres tweeted: "I can't believe the news about Robin Williams. He gave so much to so many people. I'm heartbroken."Born in 1951, Williams leaves behind his third wife, and three children: daughter Zelda, 25, and two sons—Zachary, 31, and Cody, 19.Actor and television host Gary Collins died yesterday at age 74. He died at Biloxi Regional Medical Center, in Biloxi, Mississippi, of natural causes according to Harrison County, Mississippi Deputy Coroner Gary Hargrove. He starred on television series The Sixth Sense, Born Free, The Iron Horse, and The Wackiest Ship in the Army. He hosted Hour Magazine from 1980 to 1988. He appeared on television shows such as Charlie's Angels, Fantasy Island, and The Love Boat. From 1985 to 1989 he hosted the Miss America Pageant. He was also a radio personality.In 2011, Collins separated from his wife Miss America 1959 winner Mary Ann Mobley after 44 years. He had a previous marriage to Susan Peterson. Gary Collins was born on April 30, 1938 in Venice, California. Collins attended Santa Monica City College prior to enlisting in the US Army. He was a disc jockey and announcer for Armed Forces Radio.  After he left the army his civilian television career got underway with the television series The Wackiest Ship in the Army.He is survived by three children, two of them by his first wife.Eddie Albert, well-known for his role as back-to-nature attorney Oliver Douglas in the surrealistic '60's TV series "Green Acres," has died at the age of 99.  Albert, who suffered from Alzheimer's disease in later years, succumbed to pneumonia on Thursday at his California home.  His son Edward Albert was by his side at the time.Although he gained his greatest fame in "Green Acres,"  Albert had a long movie, TV, and stage career stretching back to the 1930s.  His first role came in 1938, playing opposite Ronald Reagan in the comedy "Brother Rat."  He went on to co-star in such movies as "Roman Holiday" (1953), The Longest Day" (1962), and "The Longest Yard" (1974).Mr. Albert was also a vigorous environmental and social activist, making many trips on behalf of UNICEF and helping found the Plaza de la Raza foundation in Los Angeles to assist poor Hispanic youth. He played a significant role in urging the US to ban DDT, which it did in 1972, and was instrumental in starting Earth Day.Eddie Albert's most recent movie role was in 1995's "The Barefoot Executive."According to a spokesperson, actor George Clooney, 46, along with his girlfriend Sarah Larson, 28, were injured in a motorcycle accident in New Jersey after the motorcycle was sideswiped by another vehicle."George Clooney was involved in a motorcycle accident this afternoon after the bike he was riding was hit by a car. He's doing fine. He has a broken rib, it's very painful and it'll take a long time to heal," said Stan Rosenfield, a spokesman for Clooney in a statement.Clooney received fractured ribs and road rash whereas Larson broke a foot. Both were treated and released from North Bergen, New Jersey's Palisades Medical Center.Clooney is still expected to attend the opening of his new film Michael Clayton, which is to take place in New York City, New York on Monday.New York City — Actor Jerry Orbach died in his home in Manhattan at age 69. Orbach was a staple of American cinema, stage and television, with his most recent role being in the NBC police drama "Law and Order." Orbach is survived by his wife of 25 years, Elaine Cancilla, and his two sons Anthony and Christopher.American actor John Fiedler died at the age of 80 on June 25. Though he worked extensively on stage, film, television, and radio for over forty years, he is perhaps most remembered for two roles: the mild, fearful voice of Piglet in Disney's many Winnie the Pooh productions, and the role of Mr. Peterson, nervous patient on The Bob Newhart Show. Born in 1925 in Ohio, Fiedler began his career in New York, working on the radio series The Aldrich Family as sidekick Homer Brown, and making his film debut in Twelve Angry Men (1957), as the nervous Juror #2. Most of his subsequent roles were as gentle or nervous types, though occasionally he broke out of the mold, notably in the original Star Trek episode "A Wolf in the Fold," as an official possessed by Jack the Ripper. On Broadway he was in the original casts of A Raisin in the Sun (as housing commmittee rep Lindner) and The Odd Couple (as poker player Vinnie), reprising both roles for the film versions. Other on-camera work included roles in the films True Grit and The Cannonball Run, plus many TV guest spots from Bewitched to The Twilight Zone, and a recurring part on Kolchak: The Night Stalker as morgue attendant Gordy "The Ghoul" Spangler.His distinctive voice kept him busiest, however. In addition to playing Piglet in many shorts, four features, several specials, and two TV series, he was heard in the Disney features The Rescuers, Robin Hood, and The Emporer's New Groove. A cause of death has not yet been reported.Actor Justin Mentell, known for his role in US television drama Boston Legal, has died as the result of a road traffic accident aged 27.Iowa County Sheriff's Department, who confirmed the death, stated that Mentell was driving without wearing a seatbelt when he crashed his 4 X 4 vehicle into two trees placed on an embankment. He was killed in the collision at 0300 local time.One of the roles that Justin Mentell played was Garrett Wells in Boston Legal in 2005 and in 2006. William Shatner, who also appeared in the programme, paid tribute to the actor on his Twitter page on Wednesday. He wrote: "I'm deeply saddened to hear about Justin Mentell. There’s no telling how far up the ladder he may have climbed. My sympathies to his family."One of the other appearences that Mentell made was in 2009 film G-Force, where he played the role of Terrell.American actor Peter Boyle, well known for his "Holy Crap!" role on Everybody Loves Raymond, died Tuesday from Bone marrow cancer at the age of 71 at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, New York. He suffered from bone marrow cancer and heart disease.Boyle suffered a stroke in 1990. He also had a heart attack while taping an episode of Everybody Loves Raymond in 1999.Boyle played the character Frank Barone, who is the father of Ray Barone (played by Ray Romano), on  Everybody Loves Raymond. The sitcom ran from 1996 to 2005.British actor Ryan Thomas has become involved in a vehicle collision in Manchester, England.  The actor, who is aged 25 and plays the character of Jason Grimshaw in ITV soap-opera Coronation Street, was believed to be involved in a collision involving his Chrysler striking a lamppost.  This occurred at around 0400 GMT on October 31 in the city centre of Manchester.It has been reported that Ryan has been taken away for questioning by the police. Another man was also arrested in connection with this incident, and was later charged with the offence of driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol, according to recent reports. Thomas was however not charged with offences relating to the accident.A spokesperson for the Greater Manchester Police has said the following about this incident: "Police were called following a report of a collision. Officers attended and found a Chrysler had collided with a lamp-post. A 25-year-old was interviewed by police on Friday 6 November 2009."The well-known character actor, Vincent Schiavelli has died at his home in Polizzi Generosa, Sicily. He was 57.Schiavelli appeared in more than 120 films and television shows including the movie "Ghost" where he played opposite Patrick Swayze. He was selected in 1997 by Vanity Fair as one of the best character actors in the United States.Vincent Schiavelli could do with a glance what many actors work a lifetime to perfect. Schiavelli had the countenance of one of Dali's melting clocks, the hooded eyes of a mobster and the smile of someone who might be light years off his meds.It was a look that launched his career. By the time Schiavelli died at age 57, he had starred in 150 television shows and movies. He had a name people couldn't remember and a face people couldn't forget.Acclaimed actor and singer Debbie Reynolds died at the age of 84 yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, California.  Her son, Todd Fisher, said around noon yesterday she suffered a stroke brought on by the stress of the death of her daughter, Carrie Fisher.Reynolds' credits include lead roles in films Singin' in the Rain, Bundle of Joy, and The Unsinkable Molly Brown, the last of which earned her an Academy Award nomination.  She worked to preserve Hollywood history and memorabilia for posterity and, like Carrie Fisher, as an advocate for mental health awareness.Born Mary Francis Reynolds in 1932, she was given the stage name "Debbie" by Warner Brothers director Jack Warner, which she would later say was done without her permission.  She would go on to spend twenty years with MGM studios.  Reynolds received a Tony Award nomination for her acting in the 1973 revival of Irene. Reynolds' business interests included owning various private museums of film memorabilia as part of her personal Hollywood history preservation project.  She would often purchase and hold items such as Marilyn Monroe's dress from The Seven Year Itch and Elizabeth Taylor's Cleopatra headdress until they could be displayed to the public. More recently, she was nominated for an Emmy Award in 2000 for a Will & Grace recurring role and appeared as the main character's mother in HBO's Behind the Candelabra.  She worked as a voice actress on animated productions such as the children's show Kim Possible and the more adult Family Guy.  She was honored with the 2016 Academy Awards Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and a Lifetime Achievement Award from the Screen Actors Guild in 2015.In Reynolds' personal life, her first husband and father of her two children, Eddie Fisher, very publicly left her for her friend Elizabeth Taylor.  She declared bankruptcy in 1997 after a failed casino project.Carrie Fisher was an actor, author, and mental health advocate best known for acting in the Star Wars film series and for her novel Postcards from the Edge, which had a character inspired by her mother, Reynolds. Fisher was taken ill while flying from London to Los Angeles and died on Tuesday.  Fisher and Reynolds did not speak for several years, though this rift was long over by the time of Fisher's death.  According to Todd Fisher, he and his mother had been discussing his sister's funeral at his home shortly before the stroke; Reynolds said to him, "I miss her so much, I want to be with Carrie."Reynolds is survived by son Todd Fisher and granddaughter Billie Lourd.Carrie Fisher, US actress and writer for page and screen, died this morning in a Los Angeles, California hospital after treatment following cardiac arrest.  She was best known for the role of Princess Leia in the Star Wars movie franchise. Fisher went into cardiac arrest on Friday during a commercial flight from London just before landing in Los Angeles.  She was admitted to the UCLA Medical Center. She was reported to have remained stable over the weekend.Billie Lourd, Fisher's daughter, said, "She was loved by the world and she will be missed profoundly [...] Our entire family thanks you for your thoughts and prayers."Though most famous for Star Wars, Fisher also appeared in such film and television productions as The Blues Brothers, Hannah and Her Sisters, When Harry Met Sally, 30 Rock, and The Big Bang Theory.  As a scriptwriter, Fisher contributed to Hook, Sister Act, and other films.  Her most noted written work was the novel Postcards from the Edge, made into a film of the same name starring Meryl Streep.  Fisher's script received a BAFTA award nomination.  Fisher was also known for her candid treatment of both substance abuse and bipolar disorder in both her fictional and autobiographical works and for her mental health awareness advocacy.  She once described a manic episode as being "trapped inside a metaphor.  Everything I looked at had a meaning. Everything was a warning or a sign. I was in a part of my brain I've only been in one time before."Her personal life included romantic relationships with Harrison Ford, Dan Ackroyd, Paul Simon, and Bryan Lourd, with whom she had her daughter, Billie.  Former co-star Mark Hamill reported via Twitter that he was "devastated."Last month, in an interview with Rolling Stone, Fisher responded on whether she feared death: "No. I fear dying [...] Anything with pain associated with it, I don't like. I've been there for a couple of people when they were dying; it didn't look like fun. But if I was gonna do it, I'd want someone like me around. And I will be there!"She was the eldest child of actress and stage performer Debbie Reynolds and Eddie Fisher. Fisher is survived by her mother and daughter, brother Todd, and half-sisters Joely and Trisha Leigh Fisher.American plus-size model and actress Mia Amber Davis has died at the age of 36 in Los Angeles, California. Davis, who appeared in the film Road Trip, died one day after undergoing routine knee surgery.Davis was more than 6 feet (1.8 metres) tall and weighed over 300 pounds (136.1 kilogrammes). She was having the surgery after a prolonged basketball injury from her college days. The model returned to the hospital after feeling dizzy and later died there.Michael Yard, Davis' husband, was in New York at the time of her death. He spoke to TMZ, saying "I want to know what happened to my wife."Davis was also the editor of Plus Model Magazine. Magazine editor Madeline Jones commented on Davis' death in a blog post, writing "Mia was a super model and industry leader because it was her love for the women she represented that kept pushing her when the industry itself did not embrace her. Anyone else would have given up, but Mia remained steadfast in her career, knowing that she was not just doing it for her own benefit, but for women of all ages."Davis is best remembered for her appearance in Road Trip. She played a heavyset woman named Rhonda who seduces a geek played by DJ Qualls.Actress Shelly Winters died of heart failure today at The Rehabilitation Centre of Beverly Hills, her publicist, Dale Olson said. She was 85. Winters was hospitalized in October after suffering a heart attack.Winters was the daughter of a tailor's cutter and her mother was a former opera singer. She made her impromptu singing appearance at a St. Louis amateur night when she was only 4 years old.She started her career as a nightclub chorus girl, and advanced to supporting roles in New York plays, then became famous as a Hollywood sexpot.Winters is probably best known for her appearance in the movie The Poseidon Adventure.  She made several appearances on Roseanne as Roseanne's grandmother.On Sunday, British singer Adele won five Grammy Awards at the 59th Grammy Awards event in Los Angeles. David Bowie posthumously won five Grammys.Adele won Song of the Year, Best Pop Solo and Record of the Year for her song Hello, and Album of the Year for her album 25, becoming the first singer to win the Song of the Year, Record of the Year, and Album of the Year twice.David Bowie was nominated in five categories — three for his album Blackstar in Best Alternative Music Album, Best Engineered Album, Non-Classical, and Best Rock Performance; and two for his song Blackstar, Best Rock Song and Best Rock Performance. Days after releasing his 25th album, Blackstar, Bowie passed away in January 2016, due to cancer. Before Blackstar, Bowie won a Grammy for his music video Jazzin' for Blue Jean, and Lifetime Achievement Award in 2006, never winning the award in a major category before.In the event, singer Bruno Mars paid tribute to music icon Prince, replicating style, costumes, and guitar of Prince's. Minneapolis-based funk band The Time, who had performed with Prince, paid tribute to the singer who passed away in April at the age of 57. Adele, in her performance, paid tribute to George Michael. While performing, Adele stopped, swore, and restarted. She later apologised, saying "I am sorry for swearing and I am sorry for starting again, I can't mess this up for him[...] I am sorry, I can't."  British pop singer George Michael died on Christmas Day of heart failure at the age of 53.Adele was in tears while receiving Grammy for the Album of the Year. In her acceptance speech, she said, "But I can't possibly accept this award. And I'm very humbled and I'm very grateful and gracious. But my artist of my life is Beyoncé. And this album to me, the 'Lemonade' album, is just so monumental. Beyoncé, it's so monumental. And so well thought out, and so beautiful and soul-baring and we all got to see another side to you that you don't always let us see. And we appreciate that. And all us artists here, we fucking adore you. You are our light. And the way that you make me and my friends feel, the way you make my black friends feel, is empowering. And you make them stand up for themselves. And I love you." Other albums in the pool, besides 25 and Lemonade, were Justin Bieber's Purpose, Drake's Views, and A Sailor's Guide To Earth by Sturgill Simpson.Earlier, while receiving award for the Record of the Year, Adele said, "My dream and my idol is Queen Bee [Beyoncé], and I adore you and you move my soul every single day and you have done for nearly seventeen years". Other songs nominated in the category were Beyoncé's Formation, Work by Rihanna, 7 Years by Lukas Graham, and Stressed Out by TWENTY ØNE PILØTS.Beyoncé received the largest number of nominations for the event — nine — but she won only two. Her album Lemonade won Best Urban Contemporary Album and her song Formation won Best Music Video.Chance The Rapper won Best New Artist, and claimed Best Rap Performance for No Problem and Best Rap Album for Coloring Book. Chance's songs were never sold, and were available for free on streaming services.The new host James Corden took a pratfall on the stairs while entering. The duo TWENTY ØNE PILØTS won Best Pop Duo/Group Performance for their song Stressed Out. Upon announcement, they removed their pants to accept the award. Sharing an incident of watching Grammys before the duo was famous, Tyler Joseph said Josh Dun proposed if they were to receive a Grammy, they would receive it in their underpants as they were in underpants watching the award ceremony at the time. In his acceptance speech, he said, "I want everyone who's watching at home to know that you could be next. So watch out, because anyone from anywhere can do anything."Aerosmith have cancelled their remaining concerts on their tour. The rock band was due to tour the United States and Canada until September 16. They have cancelled the tour after lead singer Steven Tyler was injured after he fell off stage while performing on August 5. Tyler suffered a broken shoulder and injuries to the head as the band played in front of a crowd in South Dakota. He was airlifted to hospital after the fall, and later travelled to Boston to see his own doctor. Doctors advised him to recuperate as he rests his shoulder. The group made the announcement saying they had “great regret” for cancelling the tour. Guitarist Joe Perry said "words can't express the sadness I feel for having to cancel this tour," while guitarist Brad Whitford wished Tyler a “speedy recovery”. The injured Tyler released a statement, saying “I'm plain grateful that I didn't break my neck” and thanked the police and medical staff for their help.Fans of the American hard rock band Aerosmith have launched legal action against the band in response to a late cancellation of a scheduled concert on the Hawaiian Island of Maui.Attorney Brandee Faria filed a class action suit in Hawaii Circuit Court on October 19.  The suit alleges that the band's cancellation cost fans between US$500,000 (€349,944) and $3 million (€2.1 million) in travel and accommodation costs, as well as other related expenses.The sold-out September 26 Maui concert - originally planned months before as the final show of a world tour that began in Brazil in April - was canceled by the band on the basis that they could not make it to the island in time after a September 24 concert in Chicago.  The Chicago concert, which attracted 18,000 people, was rescheduled at the last minute after the original September 10 concert date had been postponed due to illness.The band canceled the show at Maui's War Memorial Stadium, which was set to be attended by 9,000 people, and apologized to fans.  The band's management company, HK Management Inc., gave no initial reason when they canceled on September 20, but blamed logistical reasons by the next day. However, just days later, on September 29, the band traveled to the neighbor island of Oahu to play a corporate event in Honolulu for Toyota car dealers and private guests.  An audience of 6,000 people celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Japanese automobile manufacturer at the University of Hawaii, with Toyota paying $500,000 (€349,944) to hire the campus.  Aerosmith received $1 million (€700,000) to perform at the event.  Faria alleges that Aerosmith abandoned the scheduled public concert on Maui in favor of the more lucrative corporate event on Oahu."...Defendants simply canceled the only public performance by Aerosmith in favor of the larger Chicago venue and the lucrative, private concert for the Toyota car dealers," the complaint states.Local officials had hoped the concert would attract other big names to the island.Faria said that "I've had people contact me being out of pocket at much as $800 or $900," adding that if the cancellation is found to be deceptive ticket holders may be eligible for a minimum of $1,000 each. The complaint also says that those aged 62 or over should receive at least $5,000 each. Currently about a dozen ticket holders are  involved with the suit. If the action is approved by a judge, steps will be taken to contact everyone who purchased a ticket.The African Burial Ground National Monument in New York City was dedicated today.  It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1993, after being rediscovered in 1991. The ceremony opens a monument that cost US$5 million and features a sunken courtyard.In February of 2006, United States President George W. Bush issued a proclamation that established the burial ground as a national monument."The African Burial Ground National Monument will promote understanding of related resources, encourage continuing research, and present interpretive opportunities and programs for visitors to better understand and honor the culture and vital contributions of generations of Africans and Americans of African descent to our Nation," said Bush in the proclamation, vowing to make sure the site is protected.Many may be unaware of slavery in New York, but it was present, and this monument makes it impossible to forget. The National Park Service estimated that 15,000-20,000 freed and still-enslaved slaves were buried within a six block area. So far only 400 remains of bodies have been found.It is only the 123rd National Monument in the nation, while there are 110 National Historic Landmarks in New York City alone.After a tense day of rehearsals, in which Spanish national broadcaster RTVE said publicly that the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) would not be imposing sanctions on them for pre-empting the second live Eurovision semi-final, the EBU has made an official statement, contradicting RTVE and announcing that sanctions will be placed on Spain. This year's act, former Operación Triunfo finalist Soraya Arnelas, will not be affected by the EBU ruling, and she will be allowed to perform her song "La noche es para mí" in Moscow as scheduled on Saturday.By late Friday evening, the newspaper ABC announced that while RTVE and the EBU were in talks all day, it looked as if Soraya's spot would not be in danger, as she participated in dress rehearsals during the afternoon. Later, the EBU released their statement, which says in part, "Spanish broadcaster [RTVE] did not broadcast the second Semi-Final (Thursday, 14th of May) of the 2009 Eurovision Song Contest live, despite the fact that this is mandatory by the Rules of the 2009 Eurovision Song Contest...The Reference Group of the Eurovision Song Contest will decide upon a sanction in its next meeting, after this year's competition."The newspaper El Mundo was the first to publish statements from RTVE representatives, in which they were quoted as saying "La UER no va a tomar medidas" ("The EBU is not going to take action") and "No va a haber ningún tipo de sanción" ("There will be no sanctions"). When asked why the Eurovision semi-final was deferred, disenfranchising the Spanish voters, RTVE responded, "We chose the least damaging option possible." El Mundo noted that Spanish Eurovision fans disagreed, with such a high volume of negative sentiment that RTVE's Eurovision fan message boards crashed. The Eurovision Song Contest is a very popular annual event in Spain; more than 80% of all households watch the shows each year.RTVE is no stranger to controversy this week; on Wednesday the network came under fire for fan reaction to the Spanish national anthem being played before the Copa del Rey soccer matchup between Athletic de Bilbao and Barcelona, two teams located in secessionist regions of Spain (Catalonia and the Basque Country). During the telecast of the anthem, fans yelled out anti-Spanish insults and slurs against King Juan Carlos I, and nationalist flags were shown on-air. RTVE's sports director was immediately fired for the incident. An opinion piece in El Mundo called for more resignations at RTVE as they drew parallels in terms of incompetence between the Eurovision event and the Copa del Rey event.Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad claims Paul the octopus, who correctly guessed the outcomes of eight matches of the World Cup, is a sign of decay of Western culture.Ahmadinejad said in a speech at a youth festival in Tehran, "Those who believe in this type of thing cannot be the leaders of the global nations that aspire, like Iran, to human perfection, basing themselves in the love of all sacred values.""We are after constructing Iran, but this does not mean viewing the matter from nationalist angle and singling out the Iranian race. Today the name of Iran is synonymous with prestige, justice seeking, monotheism, anti-despotism, and the entire blessed values that are dear for the world nations," he continued.An Irish journalist, Rory Fitzgerald, wrote a satirical piece in response to the president's remarks. "A visibly shaken Paul spoke out earlier today saying: 'As an octopus, I can claim some objectivity in my view [of] human affairs,' " Fitzgerald wrote.Paul correctly predicted the outcome of Germany's seven matches and picked Spain over the Netherlands for the World Cup final.  The mollusk currently lives in a tank at the Oberhausen Sea Life Centre in Germany.The winners of the annual 2006 Air New Zealand Screen Awards were announced on Thursday, 24 August night.The movie: The World's Fastest Indian, about an Invercargill motorcycle enthusiast who set a world speed record in 1967 on his Indian motorcycle, won altogether seven awards. The awards were for best-Director, Roger Donaldson,Leading actor, Sir Anthony Hopkins,Film, Gary Hannam and Roger Donaldson (producers),Screenplay, Roger Donaldson,Editing, John Gilbert,Sound, Tim Prebble, Gethin Creagh and Michael Hedges andProduction design, J Dennis Washington & Rob Gillies.However both Donaldson and Hopkins were not present at the ceremony to receive their awards.John Gilbert, The World's Fastest Indian editor, said: "The movie is successful because people can relate to the main character."The film No. 2 won four awards, they were for best:Actress, Ruby Dee,Supporting actor, Rene Naufahu,Supporting actress, Mia Blake andOriginal music, Don McGlashan.Ruby Dee, American actress was also absent from the ceremony.The River Queen scored two awards, including best:Cinematography, Alun Bollinger andCostume design, Barbara Darragh.In the television section the The Insider's Guide To Love won six awards, including the best:Contribution to design, Nic Smillie,Actor, Gareth Reeves,Actress, Kate Elliott,Director in a drama/comedy programme, Nathan Price,Camerawork in a drama, Simon Baumfield andOriginal music, David Long.Television series Interrogation won three awards, for best:Supporting actress, Claire Chitham,Script for a single episode of a drama series or serial, Fiona Samuel andEditing in a  Drama programme, Lisa Hough.Television comedy series bro'Town won three awards for best:Comedy,Production design, Ant Sang andScript in a Comedy, Oscar Kightley, Mario Gaoa, David Fane, Shimpal Lelisi & Elizabeth Mitchell.Drama series Outrageous Fortune won two awards, for best:Drama programme andDrama seriesTV Series The Promise won two awards, for best:Documentary andCamerawork in a Documentary, Wayne Vinten.The following twelve shows also won an award: High Times, Koi, Holly's Heroes, Dancing With The Stars, Westfield Style Pasifika 2005, Busted At The Border, The Market, Off The Rails -- A Love Story, Lifting Of The Makutu, The Living Room Series 3, From Cannon's Creek to Jacob's Pillow and Earthquake.An aircraft dating back to the Second World War has crashed at Shoreham Airshow in West Sussex, United Kingdom whilst participating in a mock dogfight, killing the pilot. The plane was with the Royal Air Forces Association  and had been performing in a Battle of Britain display.Witness Tim Deakin described the chain of events to BBC News 24: "The main point of the show was a Second World War dogfight between some Messerschmitts and some Spitfires. Midway through the dogfight one of the planes, I'm not sure which one, literally, turned quite steeply, went into almost a straight dive and ploughed into a hill probably about a mile from the airfield. There's still quite a bit of confusion about which aircraft it was."Witness Holly Russell had some more details: "They were doing a mock dog fight and it looked like the plane was doing a dive, but it was going too fast and smashed straight into the ground. It was nose down... There was a mushroom cloud of black smoke."Authorities could not confirm any injuries or fatalities, but the missing man formation was performed in a flyby shortly after the crash. The plane went down into a field near the A27, about a mile from the airfield. Emergency services and a police helicopter attended the scene. The plane was a Hurricane, one of three performing alongside the two Spitfires and five Messerschmitts.The show is thought to have been attended by about 20,000 people, and was delayed by about 30 minutes after the crash. However, eventually a tannoy (PA) announcement stated that the pilot "would have wanted them to carry on", and the show continued. The crash occurred on the first day of the two days the annual airshow is scheduled to take.Officials have requested for anyone filming the airshow at the time to come forward in the hope that the footage will assist in investigating the cause of the crash.A midair collision today killed a pilot during an airshow in the village of Dittingen in Switzerland.The crash occurred as three Ikarus C42 planes from the German Grasshopper display team flew together in formation. Two collided and crashed, with one pilot ejecting and parachuting to safety and the other remaining on board and being killed. The third plane was not directly involved and landed successfully.The northern Swiss village is near Basel. Basel-Landschaft police spokesman Meinrad Stoecklin put the time of the accident at 11:30a.m. The airshow was first halted as rescuers arrived, then cancelled altogether. It is unclear if there are any additional injuries.Authorities have closed down access to the scene. The killed pilot's plane struck a barn. The display team reportedly was using amateur pilots.It is the third deadly European airshow crash in four days. On Thursday two planes carrying parachutists collided and crashed in West Slovakia. At least seven were killed. They had been practising for an airshow due to be held this weekend. Yesterday a vintage warplane crashed onto a busy road by Shoreham in England. Seven are confirmed dead, with the pilot critical and police continuing to search the scene for more bodies.Starting August 1, the channel will be known as Current and will aim its news programming at the 18-34 year old demographic that traditionally does not tune into cable news. "The Internet opened a floodgate for young people whose passions are finally being heard, but TV hasn't followed suit. Young adults have a powerful voice, but you can't hear that voice on television ... yet," Gore said in a press release issued from the network's San Francisco studios.Gore said the new channel will be partly created by citizen journalists, where viewer-created reports will find their way on air. "We want to transform the television medium itself, giving a national platform to those who are hungry to help create the TV they want to watch. We're creating a powerful new brand of television that doesn't treat audiences as merely viewers, but as collaborators," Gore said in the release. The network posted submission guidelines on its new website which launched Monday.Gore bought Newsworld International (NWI) from Vivendi Universal last year for $70 million. It was the only TV asset of Vivendi's not snapped up by NBC in the creation of the NBC Universal media conglomerate. NBC already had two struggling cable news channels of its own. NWI's current news content is mostly rebroadcasts of news produced by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.Originally, the network was going to be remodled as a liberal counterpart to the popular Fox News Channel, which some critics claim is a conservative-slanted newscast despite the network's denial that it is "fair and balanced" in its reporting. But after market research, the new owners of NWI decided that a liberal news network was not financially feasible.Instead, they focused on a youth-skewed news channel under the code name "INdTV" (pronounced "Indy Tee Vee"). The new name, Current, and re-launch date announcement was timed to coincide with the annual National Cable & Telecommunications Association convention, which is being held this week in San Francisco, the same city as Channel's new headquarters.Arab news channel Al Jazeera announced Saturday that it plans to open an English-language channel called Al Jazeera International at the beginning of 2006. The project fits in with the robust growth and in-your-face style of the original channel, but faces significant challenges in the new markets.Al Jazeera's confrontational approach to news has earned it enemies in every government in the Middle East. Its independence has caused the Iranian government to close its Tehran bureau for covering ethnic riots near the border with Iraq.Al Jazeera has also earned the enmity of Washington D.C., where the Bush administration regularly complains about their coverage. Al Jazeera offices were also hit by U.S. weapons in Kabul, Afghanistan, and Baghdad, Iraq, although the U.S. military insists they were accidental targets.The biggest issue for Al Jazeera is a lack of distribution. All major news services in North America, a prime market for the English language channel, struggle to gain and maintain distribution.The new channel has named its management team:Nigel Parsons is to head operations at the company's Doha headquartersSue Philips, a former employee of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, is to be in charge of the European coverage from Al Jazeera's London officeTrish Carter, formerly of Television New Zealand is to head the Asian desk in Kuala LumpurAnd Will Stebbins, formerly with Associated Press Television News, is to head the North American operations.Al Jazeera has been expanding in other markets as well.  It opened a channel last month which covers news events without a presenter or commentary. It also have a sports channel and plans for a children's channel.Al-Qaeda's No.2 Ayman al-Zawahiri warned in a 20-minute audiotaped message that the knighthood of Salman Rushdie was defying the Islamic world by granting the honour to the author of The Satanic Verses, which was deemed an insult to Islam.Al-Zawahri said in the message that a "very precise response" is in preparation to retaliate against this offence, "And if you did not understand, listen, we are ready to repeat it for you."Rushdie was given the knighthood last month by Queen Elizabeth II. The United Kingdom's Foreign and Commonwealth Office said the honor was not intended as an insult to Islam but was "a reflection of his contribution to literature."Today, the family of English actor Alan Rickman announced his death at the age of 69 in London from cancer. As per the family statement "he was surrounded by family and friends" at the time of death.Rickman started his film career as an antagonist in Die Hard — in which he played the role of Hans Gruber in 1988. He was 41 at that time. He won a British Academy Film Award for his role as the Sheriff of Nottingham in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves in 1991.  He played a ghost lover of Juliet Stevenson's character in Truly Madly Deeply. He also portrayed Professor Severus Snape in the Harry Potter series, an adaption of the novel series written by J. K. Rowling. Rowling tweeted  "There are no words to express how shocked and devastated I am to hear of Alan Rickman's death.  He was a magnificent actor & a wonderful man".A well-known actor in Britain, he also directed My Name Is Rachel Corrie, an award-winning 2005 play based on emails of Rachel Corrie who was killed in the Gaza Strip protesting against Israel Defense Forces actions.When a fan connects with a band, it's often during moments like a drive down a highway at night reflecting on some aspect of his or her life; sitting at home after a fight with a girlfriend; singing in the shower; or celebrating at a party with her friends.  Music becomes a soundtrack to an individual's life, and a connection with the musician forms when the listener is able to peg a perfect moment or feeling to a song.  Boston-based mega-member rock group Bang Camaro's fan base claims a different level of interaction: they often have learned to play their music before they ever had a moment associated with it.  Bang Camaro found fame on the video game Guitar Hero II, where an aspiring rock god uses a guitar-shaped peripheral to play rock music as notes scroll towards him on the screen.Wikinews reporter David Shankbone journeyed to the Bowery Ballroom to talk to the two founding members of Bang Camaro, Alex Necochea and Bryn Bennett.  But when MTV.com shows up at the same time as Wikinews to do an interview, the band must split up.  Below is our conversation with Necochea about touring, influence, politics, throwing his corpse out of a plane and flatulent women.David Shankbone:  How's the tour going?Alex Necochea:  The tours is going great!  We just played in Poughkeepsie last night with the OCC house band.DS:  Poughkeepsie, huh?AN:  Yeah! [Laughs]  Poughkeepsie, it's kind of a dark town.  Not much of a built-in crowd there.DS:  What kind of crowd is there?AN:  From what I could tell, we played for a lot of Guitar Hero fans and people who heard about us through friends of friends, or came across us on MySpace.  That sort of thing.  But for the most part a lot of the kids we meet are anywhere between...well, I guess at a club like that they have to be over 18, but usually they are just much younger kids who are video game fans, who have heard about us through Guitar Hero II.DS:  What's that like to have a fan base that comes from primarily video games?  Have you noticed a difference between being known as a local band playing in your city and being known through video games?  How would you compare the audience?AN:  It's different.  In our hometown it started off as just a big word of mouth thing.  We had twenty guys in the band, so everybody had friends-of-friends.  We started a groundswell that way.  But when we get out of town, not in New York so much, but when we go to Chicago and Milwaukee and places like that they generally tend to be much younger people.  It's a really big thrill for Bryn and I in that we are meeting kids who are just like us: young video game fans, aspiring musicians, usually males who picked up guitars.  They come to us and say, 'Nobody plays guitar anymore like you guys do!' or 'My parents used to listen to music like that!'  It's just a big thrill for us to meet young kids like that who remind us of ourselves when we were kids.DS:  How does it feel to be looked-up to by the kids, by America's future?AN:  [Laughs]  It's terrifying! [Laughs]DS:  Do you see parents at the show?AN:  Oh, yeah, oh yeah.  Parents with their kids—DS:  That must reduce the crotch grabbing.AN:  [Laughs]  Yeah, a little bit of macho posturing. I tell you man, it's a really big thrill, just to go out and play in towns we've never been to.  Kids come out and they know all the songs.  We've had situations where we've played New York and girls are in the front row singing along to our guitar solos.  Like, wow...we're on stage playing and we can hear them singing back at us.  Something else Bryn and I have noticed is at larger festival shows when we get to the end of our shows we play Push Push Lady Lightning, the kids would just light up and start air guitaring!  But not actually playing air guitar, but playing air guitar hero--like, they knew where all the notes were!DS:  Which is a lot different for audiences of many bands.  AN:  Absolutely!  I can't imagine other bands having the same experience, because we come from such a unique perspective that a large part of our music is driven by the instrumentals, and that sort of thing.DS:  Your fans are so engaged with your music, far more than most bands have.  Most bands they have fans who feel their music speaks to them, but your fans can say, 'I learned to play guitar on your shit and not on Eleanor Rigby!'AN:  It's an honor.  It's still unbelievable to me.  I had a message from a friend of mine who was at Guitar Center and he heard one of the kids cranking out one of our songs when he was trying out the guitar.  To me, it's like we made it.DS:  At this point of your career, you're not playing stadiums, but you're also not playing Otto's Tiki Lounge on a Tuesday night.  When you reflect upon it, what do you think about?AN:  In the past two years, since Bryn and I started this project, we've both been playing in bands locally in Boston for years.  We had some mixed success, we played large venues in and around Boston.  We got to the point where we said fuck it, we just want to have some fun and we'd laugh a lot going over old Ozzy Osbourne stuff we listened to as kids, just giggle about it.  Bang Camaro started that way, something for us to do and invite our friends to come sing on it.  Now, just two years later, it's amazing what happens when you stop trying.  It's something not contrived or born of any desire to reach an audience.  We just did it for fun, and that spoke to people more than anything else we worked on.DS:  Do you have other areas of your life where you've been able to apply that?AN:  [Laughs]  You mean as an ethos?  Don't try?  [Laughs]  You know, not really.  I have found the greatest success in the things I have put most of my effort into.  This band has been a complete unique experience in that respect, at least in terms of trying to forge a 'career in music.'  Bryn and I had gotten to the point where we thought maybe this wasn't the way to go.  Bryn was going to go back to his career as a video game programmer and I was just going to find something else to do.  So not really, I don't really apply that in any other portion of my life.DS:  What are some dream projects you'd like to work on?AN:  As a musician, obviously for me it would be to meet and work with some heroes of mine since I was a kid.  Like Mutt Lang; he always made my favorite records.  At the same time, it has also been a dream of mine to meet people like Mark Linkous of Sparklehorse.  Those guys made honest sort of rock n' roll, for lack of a better comparison, the way people like John Lennon or Bob Dylan would.  To me those are the artists of my generation.  It would be my dream one just to meet those guys and two just to work with them on some level.  I'd also be lying to say that it would just be my dream to take this project with twenty of my best friends and take it as far as we can take it.  So far in my life it's been the most rewarding thing.DS:  In the creative process it's so difficult to be original today.  Everything has been done.  Do you ever let that trip you up, the Simpsons Did It problem?AN:  No, not really.  I found I would end up falling into that cycle playing in indie rock bands, just trying to come up with the next thing, like Radiohead they stopped using guitars and things like that.  Trying to kick the ball forward a little bit instead of kicking it side to side.  With this band we don't get hung up on that.  We originally just started it as a celebration of the things we loved when we were kids.  We're not out here trying to reinvent the wheel.  We're fortunate in that when we were putting the project together we wanted that big vocal sound.  What set us apart was how we went about doing that.  We just invited all of our friends because we didn't want to multi track everything ourselves.  Soon after we had to figure out how to pull it off live, and people would approach and say 'we heard you have this crazy project with all these people.'  The project grew into the live monster it is out of necessity.  We're not rich people, we don't have refrigerators and the big tour bus.  Speaking of dreams, maybe one day we'll have a tour bus.  For now, we travel in two very smelly vans.DS:  If you could choose your own death, how would you die?AN:  [Laughs]  I would want to steal what I heard a mutual friend of ours said.  He said when he died--it's not how he died, but this is what I heard--he said when he's dead, he wants his corpse to be dressed up like Superman and thrown out of an airplane.  I thought that would be fitting.  But I'm not ready to think about death, not just yet.DS:  You guys have been described as Metal and Glam rock.  What would you describe your sound as?AN:  I would call us anthem rock.  We're really not heavy metal.  I think our focus is more on writing great singles, as best as we can make them.  Pop music.  That's just something Bryn and I grew up on.  We're big fans of melody and big driving hooks, that sort of thing.DS:  Would you say anthem rock more in the Mötley Crüe vane or more in the T. Rex vane?AN:  I would say half and half.  Our influences don't just stop with hair metal and things like that.  We draw on things like Thin Lizzy, Boston, bands like that.  Not necessarily virtuosic sort of musicianship, but things that are put together.  We like to spend the time when we are writing our songs that we are taking all the extraneous crap out of it.  We just want to make good, hook-drive pop music.DS:  Does the war in Iraq affect you artistically at all?AN:  [Laughs]  No, not at all.  No, you could say I'm just like everybody else.  I read the paper and blogs, and I'm just as horrified as everybody else.  I'm definitely not a fan of this war.DS:  If you had to fight in Iraq or Afghanistan, where would you fight?AN:  Oh, the fight was definitely in Afghanistan.  Iraq was a much different animal.DS:  Are you more inspired by things in nature or things that are man made?AN:  I would probably have to go with nature.  I'm a student of science.  I have a degree in environmental geology.  When I was 19/20 years old I went through all the regular existential questions people that age go through: why am I here and my place in the universe, that sort of thing.DS:  Did you answer any of them?AN:  Oh, God!  I play rock guitar in a twenty man band!DS:  That's important for a lot of people - you see your audience.  You're giving a lot of inspiration to a lot of people.  You don't know who you might be inspiring to pursue music.  AN:  [Laughs]  Oh, kids, don't be like me!  I would definitely go with nature over man made.DS:  What's your favorite curse word?AN:  Fuck.DS:  What's your favorite euphemism for breasts?AN:  Big guns.DS:  Have you used that recently?AN:  Actually, I think I did use that in the last week, and no comment.DS:  I read that you named the band after fast women and fast cars.  AN:  [Laughs]  Who told you that?  No, Bang Camaro were two words out of the English language that were the two sexiest words we could think of.  We put them together and they roll off the tongue.  Bang Camaro.  It says a lot more than it means.DS:  What sort of qualities do you look for in a woman?AN:  I need a girl who is going to make me laugh.  I need a woman who is smarter than I am.  A woman who will always keep me guessing.  Absolutely.  Calling me out for my own jerky bullshit.  I like a girl who is fiercely independent, knows what she wants, and doesn't need me.DS:  Hillary Clinton or Barack Obama?AN:  Oh, man, I'm going to get in a lot of trouble for saying Obama.  I would probably go with Obama.  There's just something in his rhetoric and his oratory that is a lot more inspiring than Hillary.  Hillary, to me, represents not much of a changing of the guard.DS:  What would be the greatest of misfortunes to befall you?AN:  [Chuckles]  Oh, if I were to die alone.  No, probably one of my greatest fears is injuring or maiming any of my appendages, to be honest.DS:  Do you have any special things you do to make sure you don't injure or lose an appendage?AN:  [Chuckles]  I don't keep my hands in my pockets when I am running down stairs.DS:  That's a conscious choice?AN:  Yes, that's a conscious choice.DS:  What if you are just walking down stairs?AN:  [Chuckles]  You can't realign the stars, man.  Shit will happen, shit will happen.DS:  What possession do you treasure most?AN:  That's a good question.  Probably my cat.  I love my cat more than anything.DS:  What's your cat's name?AN:  Sadie.DS:  Like Sexy Sadie?AN:  Yeah, like Sexy Sadie.  That's exactly what I named her after.  Big John Lennon fan, so I couldn't resist.DS:  What trait do you deplore most in other people?AN:  I'm a lover, not a fighter.  Jealousy, greed.  But I try to look for the best in everybody.  Who knows.DS:  What do you think are the greatest threats to humanity?AN:  Humanity itself.  You can typically read anywhere that humanity is a virus, a plague, on Mother Earth.  I really think the greatest threat to humanity is not a meteor or comet hurtling toward the planet, it's us.  We'll be our own undoing. Bad politics, the spread of...oh, man, I could get in trouble...DS:  Who would you get in trouble with?AN:  No, I don't know who I could get in trouble with.  But I definitely think that capitalism is something that having gone unchecked for so long isn't doing right in delivering civil freedom.  It's not delivering on its promises.  Then again, I play in a rock band and people come pay to see me.  I understand it works on both levels.DS:  What would be a bigger turn-off in bed: a woman who spoke in a baby voice, or someone who was overly flatulent?AN:  Oh God!  I'd go with the baby talk, man.DS:  You'd prefer the baby talk?AN:  No, I would go with the flatulent woman.  At least she's real.DS:  Have you ever been faced with either scenario?AN:  No, I don't think women should be flatulent.DS:  At all?  Not even if she lets out a little giggle afterwards?AN:  Yeah, well, so be it.DS:  What if she was really flatulent?AN:  Like, extremely flatulent?  I'd go more for the flatulence.  Baby talk...that's a real boner killer.  Sorry, man.DS:  And you've never had a baby talker?AN:  No, not since high school.DS:  In high school?AN:  Oh, yeah.  She had to go.DS:  What if she was Dutch oven flatulent?AN:  Is it really one or the other?  Can I just go gay?DS:  You can always go gay.  It's the new millennium.  AN:  Yeah, well, I'd probably end up with a baby-talking overly flatulent man, I'm sure.Mixed martial arts fighter Alex Reid, nicknamed "The Reidenator", has been voted the winner of UK Celebrity Big Brother 2010. He won what is the last series of the programme in the final on Friday night, having received 65.9% of the votes from the public.Musician Dane Bowers finished in second place, while Vinnie Jones, a former British soccer player and now a film actor, came in third place. After his departure from the Big Brother house, he commented about Alex: "I taught him everything I know." Vinnie had become unpopular with fans as he was said to have been bossy to other celebrities inside the house. Speaking to presenter Davina McCall, he stated: "I was just trying to keep order in the house because a lot of people were selfish. I was just trying to keep some stability in the house."Musician Jonas Altberg, better known by his stage name Basshunter, finished in fourth place. Actress Stephanie Beacham left the Big Brother house in fifth place.Alex Reid has been the girlfriend to former glamour model Katie Price since July 2009. Fellow housemate Dane has also previously been Katie's boyfriend. When Davina McCall mentioned Price during the interview with Alex, the crowd gave out a negative reaction of booing. In response, he said: "Come on guys, don't do that. I'm sorry guys... I'm not sorry, I really love Katie Price."During the interview with Davina McCall, Alex commented about his victory. He said: "What an amazing, fantastic start to a new year. Vinnie has been very inspirational to me. He's transitioned from athletic to actor, which is what I want to do. I'm not getting booed now. That's amazing... I'm speechless. My whole agenda in here was to be myself." Alex also spoke of contestant Dane. "I was surprised by what a cool dude he is. I'm really looking forward to seeing more of Dane," Alex said.Reports say that the host of the United States television game show Jeopardy!, Alex Trebek, 67 is being hospitalized after suffering from a minor heart attack."Alex Trebek, host of 'Jeopardy!,' has had a minor heart attack. He is resting comfortably in a Los Angeles, California hospital, and he will be back in the studio for the next scheduled tapings in January," said a spokesman for the show in a statement posted on the show's website.Trebek is expected to remain in the hospital for at least two days for observation and continued tests.Solo American hard shock rock artist Alice Cooper has commented that The Osbournes, a reality TV show starring heavy metal vocalist Ozzy Osbourne, ruined the career of the Black Sabbath frontman.Cooper said he felt that by allowing daily life in his house to be broadcast to the world, he destroyed the mystery that had previously surrounded him."Most fans thought he lived in a big, dark castle with skeletons in the cellar." said Cooper."When that show aired they knew he was just some guy who potters around his Beverly Hills mansion. "It was meant to be some kind of comedy but the audience was laughing at Ozzy, not with him. And as a close friend, that made me very sad." Meanwhile, both artists have related news this week. Finnish solo symphonic power metal soprano Tarja Turunen, most famous as the former Nightwish frontwoman, has released a 30-second preview of her cover version of Alice Cooper's top ten hit Poison, which will feature on her upcoming album My Winter Storm.Cooper himself has stated that during an upcoming tour he will replicate a mock hanging for the first time after a near-fatal accident performing the same stunt in 1988, only this time he will also be wearing a straightjacket.Meanwhile, Ozzy has blamed illegal music downloads for poor sales of his latest album Black Rain, saying that the low sales have forced him into a 90-gig world tour that he has admitted he can barely cope with.Alice Cooper, a founder of the shock rock genre, and infamous for his gory stage shows, is setting up a Christian center for at-risk youths in Phoenix.Cooper, who has been a born again Christian for over 20 years, has already raised US$2 million for the center via his charity, the Solid Rock Foundation, founded by Cooper in 1995. "The Rock", as the center will be called, is expected to cost $7.3 million, and Cooper hopes that construction work will begin on the site, currently a grassy area near the Grand Canyon University, by November.The land was donated by the university, which is Christian-based. The structure will cover about 29,000 square feet. The center will aim to get teens in Phoenix off the streets. Alice explained the problem in an interview with Reuters: "Some of these kids just don't have a chance. All their environment does for them is teach them how to dodge bullets and be really good criminals."The center will also attempt to make the youths interested in a music career as an alternative to crime, and will feature a recording studio and sound room, a concert hall, and a coffee house with a stage for performers. Cooper spoke of his confidence in the scheme's potential, saying "If you get a kid that's just as addicted to that guitar as he would be addicted to selling crack, it will change his life right then and there. I'm sure of that,".The controversial Russian music site, AllOfMP3.com, is expected to reopen after a Moscow court ruled that Denis Kvasov, owner of the site, did not break Russian copyright laws and that the site was fully legal.Mr Kvasov argued that although no royalties had been paid to the music industry, the site did pay the 15% of its profits required by the Russian Organization for Multimedia and Digital Systems (Roms). A spokesperson from Roms said "We pay royalties to those who sign up with us and ask for them. But none of the majors, among them I mean labels like EMI and Universal, want their money."A blog post on the website, which had been shut since July, said that "the service will be resumed in the foreseeable future", however no official date for the reopening has been announced.The court ruling disappointed many including the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). Tim Jenkins from the IFPI said, "If it were to resume trading as it was before, it would be in clear violation of copyright laws both within and outside Russia."Rock musicians Kid Rock and Mötley Crüe drummer Tommy Lee were involved in a minor altercation at the 2007 MTV Music Video Awards (VMA), held on Sunday night in Las Vegas.Both Lee and Rock were former husbands of Pamela Anderson, who was present at the VMAs and delivered her lines from the top of a table. Eye witnesses claim the fight started when Kid Rock, who was sitting next to rapper Diddy, walked up to Lee and slapped him. Tommy Lee stood up to fight back and Rock punched him in the face. Lee was dragged off by security guards before he was able to fight back.Rap Producer Rich Nice said Lee had been antagonizing Rock before the altercation. The incident inspired many jokes from hip hop and rap artist, such as MTV VJ Sway who was quoted saying "They say it's only rappers. I told you rockers fight too."  Police cited Rock for misdemeanor battery.Indian economist Amartya Sen is among nine scholars to receive the US National Humanities Medal tomorrow. No other Indians have received the medal in the sixteen years since it was introduced.A White House citation hoted "his insights into the causes of poverty, famine, and injustice" and claimed "by applying philosophical thinking to questions of policy, he has changed how standards of living are measured and increased our understanding of how to fight hunger."A 1998 Nobel Prize for Economics laureate, Sen is currently Harvard University's professor of Economics and Philosophy. Other new awardees include John Ashbery, Robert Darnton, Teofilo Ruiz, Kwame Anthony Appiah, Charles Rosen, Andrew Delbanco, and Ramon Saldivar.Scholars of Indian origin have won National Medals in Science and Engineering but not in Humanities. Introduced in 1996, the medal is awarded to "those individuals or groups whose work has deepened the nation's understanding of the humanities," says the White House.An amateur sex video allegedly filmed in Singapore using a mobile phone has become an Internet phenomenon. Various blogs are reporting that tens of thousands of Internet users are searching for the video, creating what bloggers call a "blogstorm". According to unconfirmed reports, the female in the video is "Tammy", a 17 year old student at Nanyang Polytechnic (NYP) in Singapore, and the male is her 21 year old boyfriend. The incident has stirred controversy, with many bloggers critical of the interest the video has attracted.Terms such as "tammy nyp" and "tammy video" topped the list of search terms on Technorati, a blog search engine, for days. Bloggers appear to be creating entries containing the terms to increase hits to their blogs. Domain names such as nyptammy.com have been registered, in an attempt to make money through advertising. Further, The Malaysian Star (A major newspaper in a neighbouring country, Malaysia) reported last week that a DVD version of the clips is available for sale on the streets of Penang.It has been reported in the Singapore press that the female student in the video is currently undergoing counselling. The student has also lodged a complaint with the police, who are currently investigating the matter.While it is unlikely that the culprits who uploaded the video will ever be caught, a warning must be sounded to people seeking to exploit this unfortunate incident. Under Singapore Law, bloggers who intentionally spread the "Tammy videos" are liable in tort to "Tammy".American-based online retailer Amazon.com has backtracked from its July decision and actions to remotely delete George Orwell's classic dystopian novels, Nineteen Eighty-Four and Animal Farm, from customers' Kindle e-book readers.Late Thursday, Amazon emailed owners of Kindle readers who had previously lost copies of these novels, offering a new copy of the deleted books, or a gift certificate or check for US$30. In the email, the company's chief executive, Jeff Bezos apologised again, and described the earlier actions as "stupid, thoughtless and painfully out of line with our principles."Initially, the two works of Orwell were made available to Kindle owners by a third-party company which did not have the rights to distribute them. When Amazon was alerted to this by the actual rights holder, the company removed the books from their online store then, far more controversially, remotely deleted the books from their customers' devices before issuing refunds.In the aftermath of significant press coverage of Amazon's actions to remove content, legal action was started against them in Washington alleging violations of the company's published terms of service, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, and Washington's consumer protection legislation. A Michigan student named as a plaintiff in the case explained that the deletion of his copy of 1984 had rendered his annotations and notes worthless.First published in 1949, the novel Nineteen Eighty-Four will not enter the public domain in the United States until 2044.Comedic actor Bernie Mac has died today at the age of 50. According to his publicist, Danica Smith, Mac had been suffering from pneumonia for about a week, potentially related to the actor's sarcoidosis, although it was initially believed that he would make a full recovery. However on August 2, 2008, a day after Mac was hospitalized, a family member was quoted as saying that Mac was in "very, very critical" condition.Mac, who was born in Chicago on October 5, 1957, started his career in 1977 and won the Miller Lite Comedy Search at the age of 32. He opened for many performers including Dionne Warwick, Redd Foxx and Natalie Cole. In 1993 he appeared in his first film, Who's the Man?. In following years Mac appeared in many television series and movies, most notably the 2001 film Ocean's Eleven. He also had a role in other movies such as Guess Who, the remake of Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?, Bad Santa, and Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle. His television series, The Bernie Mac Show, won him a Peabody Award in 2002 and the NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series four years in a row, from 2003 to 2006. The show also earned Mac Emmy and Golden Globe nominations.American actor Kelsey Grammer has checked into a hospital in New York after feeling faint. It is the second time the actor has checked into a hospital after he suffered a heart attack in Hawaii two months ago. His current condition is not life-threatening. According to his publicist, Stan Rosenfield, the symptoms may have been caused by a mix up in his medication. "His doctor is changing the medication and they will monitor him overnight," he said.Grammer blamed the heart attack on the pressure from his canceled sitcom Back To You; the attack occurred while paddle-boating with his wife in June.Grammer is best known for his roles on television sitcoms Frasier and Cheers. He won the Primetime Emmy Award for "Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series" three times and one Golden Globe Award for "Best Performance by an Actor" in a TV Series in 2001.American actor Arnold Stang, famous for playing the voice of cartoon character Top Cat, has died at the age of 91 from pneumonia. JoAnne Stang, his wife of 60 years, announced that he had died in Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Massachusetts, United States on Sunday.Some of his famous roles included being the sidekick to Frank Sinatra in The Man with the Golden Arm, a film released in 1955, and It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World, a film that was released in 1963. In addition to these roles, Stang voiced the lead character in Top Cat, a television cartoon which ran from 1961 to 1962.On Tuesday, JoAnne Stang said about her husband: "He was really unique, because he could perform in any role, comedy or drama, he just loved it all. He always thought of himself just as an actor, not any particular kind of actor, but just an actor who would play whatever he was asked to play. I remember how smart he was, and how hardworking, and how disciplined he was, no matter what the role."Brad Renfro, an American film actor, has died at age 25. Renfro, who had a history of substance abuse, was found dead yesterday morning in his Los Angeles home by paramedics who had been summoned to the scene. The cause of death has not yet been determined, but officials said an autopsy could be conducted as early as today.American actor Charlie Sheen was arrested Friday on domestic-violence related assault charges. The 44-year-old was charged with assault, menacing and criminal mischief. He was released on US$8,500 bond from an Aspen, Colorado jail. Aspen police spokeswoman Stephanie Dasaro did not identify the victim in press briefings, citing police policy.Sheen's publicist Stan Rosenfield said not to jump to conclusions, "It would benefit everyone not to jump to any conclusion." Sheen is married to real-estate investor Brooke Mueller Sheen, with whom he had twins in March.Sheen has had incidents in the past, such as in 1990 when he accidentally shot his then-fiancee, Kelly Preston, in the arm. He also had a drug violation in 1998, when he injected himself with cocaine and overdosed.Sheen, born Carlos Irwin Estévez, is the son of actor Martin Sheen began his professional career in The Execution of Private Slovik. However his first starring role was the the 1986 movie Platoon, and he co-starred with Michael Douglas in the Oliver Stone film Wall Street. His filmography also includes Young Guns, Major League, The Rookie and a leading role on the television show Two and a Half Men.American Oscar-winning actor Morgan Freeman is in reported to be in serious condition but good spirits in a Tennessee hospital following a single car accident in Tallahatchie County, Mississippi in the Mississippi Delta. The 71-year-old actor was flown to the hospital by air ambulance with injuries to one arm.Freeman, the Associated Press reports, "has a broken arm, broken elbow and minor shoulder damage, but is in good spirits," according to a statement from Donna Lee, Freeman's publicist.Reports say that Freeman was driving Demaris Meyer — the owner of the 1997 Nissan Maxima — when the car flipped over two or three times around 11:30 p.m. Sunday night. Meyer's condition has not been released. Meyers is reported to be a 48 year old family friend visiting from Memphis.According to reports, Freeman over-corrected the vehicle when he may have dozed and began to go off the highway, causing the car to flip two or three times before landing in a ditch. The accident occurred on Highway 32 just north of Ruleville, Mississippi not far from where Freeman currently resides.Clay McFerrin, editor of the Sun Sentinel in Charleston, told the Associated Press he arrived at the accident scene soon after the accident. "They had to use the jaws of life to extract him from the vehicle," McFerrin told the Associated Press. "He was lucid, conscious. He was talking, joking with some of the rescue workers at one point."Freeman was one of the stars of the recent film The Dark Knight and is currently being treated at Memphis Regional Medical Center along with Meyer. Spokeswoman Kathy Stringer says that "Freeman is in a serious condition," but did not comment further. The hospital, known locally as "The Med" is an acute care facility for up to 150 patients.According to Sgt. Ben Williams of the Mississippi Highway Patrol, "there's no indication that either alcohol or drugs were involved" in causing the accident. He also said that both Freeman and Meyer were wearing their safety belts.Singer, songwriter and actor Patrick Swayze died on Monday after a long battle with pancreatic cancer at the age of 57.Swayze was born Patrick Wayne Swayze on August 18, 1952 in Houston, Texas, USA. He starred in the 1987 film Dirty Dancing, and also had a hit song from the movie with "She's Like The Wind", with Wendy Fraser, which was later covered by hip-hop artist Lumidee and R&B singer Tony Sunshine.Swayze also starred in the 1990 film Ghost with Demi Moore. In addition to the two films, he starred in Road House with musician Jeff Healey.In November 2008, Swayze wrapped taping on an A&E television drama The Beast, filmed in Chicago in summer 2008; he played FBI Agent Charles Barker. The Beast aired on January 15, 2009, and was canceled in June of that year.Swayze is survived by his wife, Lisa Niemi — they had no children —  and his brother, Don.American actor Robert Culp died at the age of 79 after falling outside his Los Angeles home early Wednesday. Culp was best known for his part on the television show I Spy.He was found lying on the ground outside of his home by a jogger passing by who called 9-1-1.  Culp was taken to Queen of Angels hospital around 1100 local time (1800 UTC), where he later died.  Police Lieutenant Bob Binder said that foul play was not likely involved, but an autopsy will be conducted.Culp was born in Oakland, California in 1930. He was well known for his roles on Trackdown, Everybody Loves Raymond, and The Greatest American Hero. He is survived by his wife Candace Faulkner.Beatrice Arthur, an American actress, died at the age of 86 on Saturday morning at her home in Los Angeles, California, according to a spokesperson. Arthur had been suffering from cancer for some time."She was a brilliant and witty woman. Bea will always have a special place in my heart," said Dan Watt, Arthur's spokesman for six years.Born in New York City in 1922, Arthur was probably most famous for her role in the American TV series The Golden Girls, where she played Dorothy Zbornak, and her role in Maude. Both roles earned her Emmy Awards. She also won a Tony Award for her role in the Broadway musical Mame."Bea was such an important part of a very happy time in my life and I have dearly loved her for a very long time," said Betty White, one of Arthur's co-stars on The Golden Girls to Access Hollywood. Rue McClalahan, who co-starred with Arthur in both series, said she will "miss her courage [and] her voice".Arthur was also an advocate for gay rights, saying she once considered a gay relationship after a bad divorce. "With all the improvements and all the people who've become so much more knowledgeable, there's still an enormous amount of vicious homophobia," said Arthur in a 2001 interview with Out Magazine.On July 22, 2008, Estelle Getty, who also co-starred with Arthur on The Golden Girls, died after a battle with dementia.American actress Brittany Murphy has died at the age of 32 in Los Angeles, California, US, according to reports. She had been married to her husband Simon Monjack since 2007. According to entertainment website TMZ.com, the actress had suffered a cardiac arrest in the shower of the house of her husband, Simon Monjack, and could not be revived. The Los Angeles Fire Department received a call from the house at around 0800 local time. The cause of death has not been released from a spokeswoman for Cedars-Sinai Medical Centre, the location where she was pronounced dead.She was famous for appearing in such films as Clueless, 8 Mile and Just Married. The Los Angeles Police Department has now launched an investigation into the death. Nicola Perna, who is Murphy's publicist, has released a statement saying: "In this time of sadness, the family thanks you for your love and support. It is their wish that you respect their privacy."As well as the films that she has already appeared in, Brittany Murphy is expected to appear in Sylvester Stallone film The Expendables upon its release in 2010.Emmy Award winning American actress Estelle Getty has died at the age of 84. Getty had been previously diagnosed with dementia which had been in its advanced stages. She died while at her home in Hollywood, California early Tuesday morning."She was loved throughout the world in six continents, and if they loved sitcoms in Antarctica she would have been loved on seven continents. She was one of the most talented comedic actresses who ever lived," said her son Carl Gettleman.Getty was probably most famous for her starring role as Sophia Petrillo in the American television show The Golden Girls where she co-starred with actresses Bea Arthur, Betty White and Rue McClanahan. It ran from 1985 until 1992 having aired 180 episodes, and was an immediate success. In 1986, Getty was nominated for three Golden Globe Awards, winning one, for her role in the show for "Actress In A Supporting Role - Series, Mini-Series Or Television Movie" and "Actress In A Leading Role - Musical Or Comedy Series".  Ironically, though she played the oldest of the four roommates, and the mother of Arthur's character, Dorothy Zbornak, she was actually younger than Arthur or White."Our mother-daughter relationship was one of the greatest comic duos ever, and I will miss her," stated Arthur in a statement to the press."The only comfort at this moment is that although Estelle has moved on, Sophia will always be with us," said White to the Associated Press.Getty also starred in several movies after the show including Mask where she played the mother of singer and song writer Cher and Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot where she also played the mother of actor Sylvester Stallone. She also starred in the television show spin off of The Golden Girls titled The Golden Palace and made a two episode appearance on another spin off called Empty Nest.Getty was born in New York City on July 25, 1923, passing away just three days before her 85th birthday.File:Puss Get the Boot.jpgJack Zander, the animator whose career lasted from the "golden age" of theatrical animation into the 1980s, has died at the age of 99 on Monday, December 17.Born in May of 1908, he helped animate the Tom and Jerry cartoons with William Hanna and Joseph Barbera, including Puss Gets the Boot (1940), The Night Before Christmas (1941), Fine Feathered Friend (1942), and Sufferin' Cats (1943). Zander was nominated for an Outstanding Animated Program Emmy in 1981 for Gnomes, and in 1984 he won the Motion Picture Screen Cartoonists' Golden Award.American author and producer Michael Crichton has died in Los Angeles, California at the age of 66, according to a statement released by his family.According to Entertainment Tonight, Crichton died after a long and quiet battle with cancer. His family said that his death was "unexpected". "While the world knew him as a great storyteller that challenged our preconceived notions about the world around us — and entertained us all while doing so — his wife Sherri, daughter Taylor, family and friends knew Michael Crichton as a devoted husband, loving father and generous friend who inspired each of us to strive to see the wonders of our world through new eyes," said a statement by his family.Crichton, who was born in Chicago, Illinois in 1942, was most famous for the writing of his Jurassic Park novels. He also published The Andromeda Strain, Congo, Rising Sun, Timeline, Eaters of the Dead, all of which became major motion pictures. He also created, and was an active executive producer of the hit television show ER.Kevin Eubanks, the veteran bandleader to American late-night television personality Jay Leno, confirmed reports on Wednesday that he will, at least temporarily, leave the The Tonight Show.File:Elizabeth and John Edwards by The Tonight Show.jpgAccording to an NBC spokesperson, "Kevin [Eubanks] has expressed interest in pursuing personal touring and recording opportunities."Eubanks has been the bandleader for the show since 1995. He furthermore followed Leno in his move to the primetime slot last year, when Leno hosted a short-lived talk show. This was until the new host Conan O'Brien left Tonight after only seven months following a contractual dispute. The Tonight Show is slated to resume this March with Leno reinstated as host. For now, Eubanks is expected stay with Leno for the show's return and for an indefinite period of time following. It is yet to be made clear if Eubanks is willing to permanently abdicate his position and whether his entire The Tonight Show Band will go with him once he leaves.American Major League Baseball third baseman Alex Rodriguez, a star player for the New York Yankees, admitted in an interview on sports network ESPN that he used performance-enhancing drugs during 2001 through 2003."I did take a banned substance, and for that, I'm very sorry," Rodriguez told ESPN's Peter Gammons. "When I arrived at Texas in 2001 I felt an enormous amount of pressure to perform."Last week, Sports Illustrated reported that the baseball player, nicknamed 'A-Rod', tested positive in 2003 for Primobolan and testosterone, two substances that have been banned by the league.During the 2003 season, Rodriguez was playing with the Texas Rangers, and was the winner of the American League MVP Award and was American League leader in home runs. According to sources, Rodriguez was one of 104 players named on a list for testing positive before the 2003 season. The list was compiled in an attempt to determine whether the MLB needed to begin conducting random drug testing.After the initial report Rodriguez was approached by Sports Illustrated while he was training for the upcoming season in a Miami area gym. At that time, Rodriguez told the reporter "You'll have to talk to the union." He was also asked for an explanation of his positive test result, to which he commented "I'm not saying anything." According to a report by ESPN, sources claim that Rodriguez was aware that he tested positive for performance-enhancing drugs.However, in December 2007 after United States Senator George J. Mitchell's Mitchell Report was released accusing such teammates of Rodriguez as Roger Clemens, Jason Giambi and Andy Pettitte of steroid use, Rodriguez appeared on ABC's 60 Minutes and declined the use of any steroid or performance-enhancing drug. He also commented that he would not need the help of steroids, stating, "I've never felt overmatched on the baseball field. I felt that if I did my, my work as I've done since I was, you know, a rookie back in Seattle, I didn't have a problem competing at any level."Senator Mitchell stated in a prepared comment yesterday that his report had only named that players that "had received credible evidence of their illegal purchase, possession, or use of performance enhancing substances." He pointed out that he "did not have access to the results of the 2003 drug testing, and to this day I do not know which players tested positive then."The MLB declined to comment directly on the situation due to court orders on the list of names and documents, but did release a statement: "Information and documents relating to the results of the 2003 MLB testing program are both confidential and under seal by court orders. We are prohibited from confirming or denying any allegation about the test results of any particular player by the court orders. Anyone with knowledge of such documents who discloses their contents may be in violation of those court orders."Rodriguez has been one of the many prominent American baseball players over the past few years who has been linked to the use of performance-enhancing drugs. Other prominent names include both the arguably greatest hitter and pitcher in Major League Baseball history, Barry Bonds and Roger Clemens. Bonds, the all-time Major League record holder for home runs, was linked to steroid use during the BALCO scandal in 2003, while Clemens was named in the Mitchell report in December of 2007.The executive vice president for labor relations of Major League Baseball, Rob Manfred, stated that league commissioner Bud Selig was "disturbed" by the linking of steroid use to Rodriguez. Commenting for the league, he said, "Because the survey testing that took place in 2003 was intended to be non-disciplinary and anonymous, we cannot make any comment on the accuracy of this report as it pertains to the player named."The report by Sports Illustrated also made the claim that Gene Orza, the COO of the Major League Baseball Players Association informed Rodriguez of a random drug test that occurred in September of 2004, a test that was supposed to remain confidential to all players. The MLBPA denied the accusations, commenting "There was no improper tipping of players in 2004 about the timing of drug tests. In September 2004 MLBPA attorneys met with certain players, but we are not able to confirm or deny the names of any players with whom we met." When asked in the Sports Illustrated report, Orza declined to comment, stating "I'm not interested in discussing this information with you."The anonymous testing of players was started in 2003 by the MLB, in order to get a brief estimate of how many players were using performance-enhancing drugs, leading to the beginning of the mandatory, penalty-enforced testing that began in 2004. 1,198 players took the "survey test" in 2003, and the results were later stored in a laboratory in Las Vegas, with codes being used in place of the players names. However, a list of the players actual names that went with the list of codes was kept in a separate office in Long Beach, never intended to ever be together with the codes.In April 2004, federal agents with search warrants raided the two labs looking for information on the 2003 BALCO scandal test results of 10 players, including Barry Bonds. While searching, they found both the list of names and the codes, including the positive test result of Rodriguez. Following the investigation and raid, the MLBPA informed all 104 players on the list that their positive test data had been sized by the federal agents.Former Major League Baseball star and self-confessed steroid user José Canseco told the media that the news was old, saying "I said in my book Vindicated that he was a known steroid user before 2000. It's old news. I've been saying this forever. You guys are playing catch-up." In the book, Canseco links Rodriguez to steroids through the claim that he saw him using the drugs. In his first book, Juiced, references to Rodriguez were removed by the publisher of the book because it could not be confirmed that Canseco actually saw Rodriguez taking steroids. According to the publisher, it was only after Canseco passed a lie detector test that information about Rodriguez was allowed into Vindicated.Current senior advisor to the Texas Rangers John Hart commented on the situation in an interview with MLB Network. "I think in the climate that we have today, you don't have much shock anymore. Obviously Alex probably is the best player in baseball. This has always been a special talent and the guy has been putting up Hall of Fame numbers since the day he showed up in the big leagues. I've been in the game for almost 40 years and it hurts a little bit, if in fact this is true. It breaks my heart for the game that we have this kind of thing occurring, But at the same time, a lot of people seem to have been caught in this net," he said. Since the positive test occurred in 2003 before penalties were instituted, Rodriguez will most likely not be suspended by the MLB as a result of the situation.The Associated Press reported Sunday that American comedian Bernie Mac is responding well to treatment for pneumonia in a Chicago, Illinois hospital.The report said that the pneumonia is not related to the inflammatory lung disease Mac has, which has been in remission since 2005.Bernie Mac's representative told People that Internet rumors of critical illness and even death are untrue."Bernie Mac is still alive and being treated in a Chicago hospital for pneumonia and is expected to make a full recovery," said Danica Smith.American comedian Harvey Korman has died at the age of 81, according to a statement released by his family.Four months ago, Korman suffered a rupture in an aortic aneurysm located in his abdomen and died from complications related to the illness."Everything he did on The Carol Burnett Show, especially the Mother Marcus character, was a special favorite. Everyone in the hospital referred to him as 'miracle man' because of his strong will and ability to bounce right back after several major operations. It was a miracle in itself that he survived the incident at all," said Korman's daughter, Katherine Korman, in a statement to the press.Korman, who started his career on Broadway in New York City, was famous for and won awards for his appearances on the Carol Burnett Show in the 1960's and 70's. He also was a starring actor in the film Blazing Saddles as well as other movies made by Mel Brooks. As a result of his work on television, Korman was nominated for seven Emmy Awards, but won a total of four for his work on the Carol Burnett Show.Stand-up comedian Mitch Hedberg was found dead Wednesday in his hotel room in New Jersey. The comedian, originally from the St. Paul, Minnesota region, was on an east coast tour of the USA. Hedberg started his career in South Florida, and later worked in Seattle.While the cause of Hedberg's death is yet unconfirmed, Hedberg's performance at a show in Portland, Maine in October 2004 suggested he might have a problem with drug use. According to Steve Kolowich of the Bowdoin Orient, "Hedberg, who was clearly intoxicated, was falling down all over the stage that night. At one point, he lay down behind the back curtain and told jokes for approximately ten minutes before rolling back into sight. He also asked the audience where the best bar in town was, and invited them to join him there after the show."According to an AP report on KLTV.com, Hedberg's mother, Mary Hedberg, claimed speculation that her son's death was drug-related was "gossip." The same report notes that services will be held in Woodbury, Minnesota on Tuesday, April 5.Hedberg, a frequent guest on Late Night with David Letterman, had released two CDs titled Strategic Grill Locations and Mitch All Together. He also directed a movie, "Los Enchiladas!" The movie premiered at the Sundance Film Festival.American actor Dom DeLuise has died, according to reports from his family. DeLuise had been battling cancer previously.Born in 1933 in Brooklyn, New York, DeLuise came to be known for his roles in several Mel Brooks movies: The Twelve Chairs, Blazing Saddles, Silent Movie, History of the World, Spaceballs, and Robin Hood: Men in Tights. DeLuise also co-starred with Burt Reynolds in several movies: The Cannonball Run and Cannonball Run II, Smokey and the Bandit II, The End, The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas and All Dogs Go to Heaven. He was also well known for his role as the talent agent "Bernie" in The Muppet Movie. His most recent role was a cameo in the movie Horrorween, which is currently in production.On television, DeLuise was a frequent guest star on The Dean Martin Show, and had his own show, The Dom DeLuise Show, in two incarnations: one in 1968 and one in 1987. He hosted the television show Candid Camera in 1991, and voiced Tiger in Fievel's American Tails the following year. DeLuise also made numerous cameos in other live-action and animated shows.DeLuise was also an avid chef, authoring two cookbooks and making numerous appearances as a cook on morning television shows. He also wrote several children books. He died in his sleep on May 4, 2009, in a Santa Monica hospital in California.The American celebrity disc jockey Adam "DJ AM" Goldstein has been found dead in his apartment in Manhattan, New York. The cause of death is suspected to be a drug overdose. Goldstein was found dead by paramedics at 5:20 pm. Drug paraphernalia was found at his apartment, but the star had claimed to be clean for years after an addiction to crack cocaine. Goldstein was a disc jockey at some of Hollywood's most exclusive clubs and parties. He became a celebrity in his own right after relationships with actress Mandy Moore and the daughter of Lionel Richie, Nicole. The disc jockey escaped death in September 2008 after he was involved in a plane crash that killed four people. Former drummer for rock band Blink-182, Travis Barker was also injured in the plane crash. Several members of the Hollywood community released statements about Goldstein's death. Television host Maria Menounos said "So horrible. In shock" and blogger Perez Hilton wrote on his Twitter page saying "He survived a deadly plane crash and now THIS, I can't stop crying".American film director John Hughes, noted for such movies as Sixteen Candles, Pretty in Pink and The Breakfast Club, died Thursday due to a heart attack.A statement, released by his representative, said that he experienced the heart attack while on a morning stroll in Manhattan, New York. Hughes was born on February 18, 1950 in Michigan. He started his career as an advertising copywriter in Chicago. By the end of the 1970s he was a frequent contributor to the National Lampoon magazine.In the 1990s, he made the Home Alone series, which became a box office sensation and turned Macaulay Culkin into a star.In recent years, Hughes stepped back from the movie industry to spend more time with his family. He is survived by his wife of 39 years, Nancy, two sons and four grandchildren.A man was sentenced to three years probation after he and his mother argued about "American Idol," a popular TV show in the U.S.Cory Favreau hit his mother with a novelty bike chain in May after she expressed praise for last year's runner-up Katherine McPhee. She was treated for a cut on her head and was released, police say.Favreau, a twenty-five-year-old native of Plattsburgh, New York, pleaded guilty to third-degree assault. He also pleaded guilty to a contempt charge for violating a court order to stay away from his mother.Bo Diddley, influential American blues/rock and roll singer, songwriter, and guitarist has died today at his home in Archer, Florida from heart failure. He was 79 years old.He was born Ellas Otha Bates on December 30, 1928 in McComb, Mississippi, USA. He rose to fame in 1955. His hits included "Pretty Thing", "Say Man" and "You Can't Judge a Book By the Cover". He also appeared as an opening act for The Clash and as a guest of The Rolling Stones. On March 25, 1972, he played with The Grateful Dead at the Academy of Music in New York City. Diddley is survived by Tammi Deanne and Terri Lynne McDaniel, his daughters.United States musician and songwriter, Ike Turner, who was married at least 14 times, died Wednesday at his home in San Marcos, California. His wife did not give a cause of death, but mentioned that he suffered from emphysema.Ike Turner was perhaps best known as one half of the Ike & Tina Turner duo, with his former wife, Tina Turner, whom he married in Mexico in 1962. During a career that lasted half a century, Ike's repertoire included blues, soul, rock, and funk. Alongside his former wife, he was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1991 and in 2001 was inducted into the St. Louis Walk of Fame.Phyllis Ayame Whitney, American mystery writer has died yesterday from pneumonia. She was 104.She was born on September 9, 1903 in Yokohama, Japan.Whitney wrote more than seventy novels. In 1961, her book The Mystery of the Haunted Pool won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America for Best Juvenile novel, and she duplicated the honor in 1964, for The Mystery of the Hidden Hand. In 1988, the MWA gave her a Grand Master Award for lifetime achievement.Brooke Astor, American socialite and philanthropist who was the chairwoman of the Vincent Astor Foundation died today at the age of 105. The cause of death was announced by Kenneth Warner, her estate legal council, as Pneumonia.Astor was born Roberta Brooke Russell on March 30, 1902 in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, USA.Her father, who retired as a major general, ended his military career as sixteenth commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. Because of her father's career, she spent much of her childhood living in China, the Dominican Republic, and Haiti.She briefly attended The Madeira School in McLean, Virginia in 1919, but eventually graduated from the Holton-Arms School in Washington, D.C.."Worst years of my life" was how Astor described her tumultuous first marriage to John Dryden Kuser, which was punctuated by her husband's physical abuse, alcoholism and adultery. During this marriage, Brooke gave birth to her only child, then Anthony Dryden Kuser. (Anthony would later change his name to Anthony Dryden Marshall.) At Mr. Kuser's insistence, Brooke filed for divorce on February 15, 1930.Astor is survived by her son, Anthony Dryden Marshall.David Edward "Chip" Reese, an American professional poker player, died on December 4, 2007, at the age of 56. Reese died in his sleep at his Las Vegas, Nevada home from the effects of pneumonia.Reese is generally considered a legend in the world of poker. In 1991, he became the youngest living player to be inducted into the Poker Hall of Fame. His last major win came at the 2006 World Series of Poker, where he won US$1,784,640 in the HORSE event."Chip Reese was probably the most successful poker player in history," said Mike Sexton. "Chip has always been admired by players for his success, his demeanor at the table.""I knew him for 35 years, I never saw him get mad or raise his voice," Doyle Brunson said. "He had the most even disposition of anyone I've ever met. He's certainly the best poker player that ever lived."His career spanned multiple decades and Reese made the majority of his money when poker gained publicity through national television exposure starting around the turn of the century. Though he never won the "Main Event" in Texas hold'em at the World Series of Poker, Reese was very successful."He was a family man like no one else in poker," said fellow poker professional Barry Greenstein. "No matter what the situation was, if his kids had something going on — a baseball game, a recital, whatever — he would quit to go to it.""Probably a lot of us were jealous of him that he was able to do that — that he had done well enough in poker, that he could always take time off of poker to be involved with his kids,"Greenstein added.Reese earned a degree from Dartmouth College and was accepted to law school at Stanford University, but he was drawn by the lure of big winnings and chose instead to earn his living at the poker table. He once told a reporter that law "doesn't have the same monetary incentive as poker."Studs Terkel, an American historian, radio talk show host and Pulitzer Prize-winning author, has died at the age of 96. His son, Dan Terkel, said he died peacefully in his Chicago, Illinois home."My dad led a long, full, eventful, sometimes tempestuous, but very satisfying life. [His death was] peaceful, no agony. This is what he wanted," said his son in a statement to the press.Terkel was born in New York City in 1912. He moved to Chicago when he was eight years old. He was mostly known for his oral histories, but he was also host of his own radio show, an author of several books, and an activist.In 1985, Terkel was awarded the Pulitzer Prize after his writing about World War II in his book called The Good War. In 1970, he published a book about the Great Depression, entitled Hard Times: An Oral History of the Great Depression, which told the stories of people from all walks of life who were affected by the stock market crash in 1929.In 2007 Terkel published his memoirs, titled Touch and Go, in which he described himself as a "martini and cigar man" who never retired. "It was those loners — argumentative ones, deceptively quiet ones, the talkers and the walkers — who, always engaged in something outside themselves, unintentionally became my mentors," said Terkel in his memoirs.Karl Von Hess, the American professional wrestler whose wrestling persona was that of a Nazi sympathiser has died at the age of 90. The cause of death was linked to a battle with Alzheimer’s disease which he had battled in recent years. Born as Francis Faketty he first trained as a lifeguard and began to teach swimming. He joined the U.S Navy and served in World War II. After completing his service he began to train as a wrestler. He tried several gimmicks before coming up with the Von Hess gimmick. He took his idea off of Kurt Von Poppenheim who has a less sinister German gimmick. Fakerry legally changed his name to Karl Von Hess and was signed by the WWWF, later the WWF. He was so convincing as a heel that people tried to stab and attack him. His gimmick became so controversial that promoter Vince McMahon had to calm matters by doing an interview with the Washington Post. He said that “Von Hess is no Nazi. He uses that silly salute to point up the act that he is the villain".Von Hess defended his choice of gimmick saying, "It was right after the war and I had tried everything.  I played different characters, and then I came up with this gimmick of Von Hess and I played it right to the hilt."  Von Hess began to draw big crowds until the early 1960s when his gimmick began to wear thin; he was phased out of the WWWF in the late 60’s. WWE Hall of Fame member Johnny Rodz called Von Hess his favourite heel saying that "He was the meanest. Who the heck comes to the ring and breaks the steps before you get in the ring? What gives a guy that reason?"After leaving the WWWF he had several stints with other promotions but then retired. He opened several trailer parks and other businesses with his wife who died in 2005.American singer and actor Al Martino died yesterday, aged 82.Martino was born as Alfred Cini in Philadelphia, US state of Pennsylvania on October 7, 1927. One of the ways in which he was best known was for his first single, "Here in My Heart", which became the first ever number 1 single in the UK Singles Chart on November 14, 1952. It stayed at the top spot for nine weeks before being succeeded by "You Belong To Me" by Jo Stafford.More recently, Martino was known was for his character Johnny Fontane in the 1972 film The Godfather. He reprised the role in the sequel films The Godfather II and The Godfather III.Martino died at his childhood hometown of Philadelphia, following an active 58 years in the music business.Dan Fogelberg, the singer/songwriter whose hits included Longer, Leader of the Band, and Power of Gold has died today at the age of 56. The cause of death was announced as prostate cancer.Fogelberg was born Daniel Grayling Fogelberg on August 13, 1951 in Peoria, Illinois, USA. He recorded other hits like Make Love Stay, which hit number-one on the Adult contemporary charts.A note on Fogelberg's web site announced his passing. "Dan left us this morning at 6:00 a.m. He fought a brave battle with cancer and died peacefully at home in Maine with his wife Jean at his side," said the note. "His strength, dignity and grace in the face of the daunting challenges of this disease were an inspiration to all who knew him."Fogelberg is survived by his wife Jean and brothers Marc and Peter.American singer Johnny Maestro died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Cape Coral, Florida.  Maestro was best known for his 1958 hit song "16 Candles" with The Crests.  He began his career in the 1950s as lead singer for The Crests, an early interracial singing group.  In 1968 he joined his band, The Del-Satins, with The Rhythm Method, another Long Island band.  They became Johnny Maestro & The Brooklyn Bridge.  Their song "The Worst That Could Happen" went gold in 1969.  Maestro performed with The Brooklyn Bridge until two months before his death.He was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on May 7, 1939 as John Mastrangelo. He is survived by his wife Grace and three children Lisa, Brad, and Tracy.James Lipton, the host of Inside the Actors Studio, mentions in his recently released memoir, Inside Inside, that he once worked as a pimp when he was living in France.  "This was when I was very very young, living in Paris, penniless, unable to get any kind of working permit," said Lipton.  "I had a friend who worked in what is called the Milieu, which is that world and she suggested to me one night, `Look, you'll be my mec... We would translate it perhaps... as pimp.  We were earning our living together, this young woman and I, we made a rather good living, I must say."He had spoken about it before on his show, when he interviewed Julia Roberts and mentioned his familiarity with prostitutes."I had to set the record straight," he said. "God, it was awful that night with Julia. I was dying. And those were my students laughing at me!"Television producer and creator of shows The Brady Bunch and Gilligan's Island Sherwood Schwartz has died at the age of 94. His daughter Hope Juber announced his death. The cause of death was announced by his son Lloyd as natural causes. Schwartz had a career that lasted six decades after he starting writing jokes for Bob Hope’s radio show in 1939.After his brother got Schwartz a role on Hope's writing staff he went onto work for the Armed Forces Radio and became a writer for the radio series The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet. He first entered television when he started to write for the show I Married Joan in the 1950s. Schwartz got his big break when he became head writer for The Red Skelton Show. He won an Emmy award in 1961 for his work on the show.Gilligan's Island was first broadcast in 1964 and featured stars such as Bob Denver, Jim Backus, and Alan Hale Jr. The show ran until 1967 but did feature several run off specials. Schwartz's other big creation, The Brady Bunch, was first shown in 1969. The series focused on a couple of newlyweds with children from previous relationships. The show ended in 1974.Schwartz is survived by Mildred, his wife, Ross, Lloyd and Dr. Donald Schwartz, his sons, Hope Juber, his daughter, and eight grandchildren, as well as four great-grandchildren.Stockholm, Sweden —The 2007 Nobel Prize in Economics has been awarded to three Americans – Leonid Hurwicz, Eric S. Maskin and Roger B. Myerson – "for having laid the foundations of mechanism design theory."The Nobel Prize, which includes ten million Swedish Crowns (US$1.54 million), was assigned by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences on behalf of the Bank of Sweden, which instituted the prize in 1968 in memoriam of Alfred Nobel."Mechanism design theory, initiated by Leonid Hurwicz and further developed by Eric Maskin and Roger Myerson, has greatly enhanced our understanding of optimal allocation mechanisms in such situations, accounting for individuals' incentives and private information," said the jury while assigning the prize.Furthermore, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences added that the theory "allows us to distinguish the situations in which the markets work fine from those in which they work bad."The attribution of this Nobel Prize closes the 2007 Nobel Prize awarding; prizes will be handed on December 10, 2007, in Stockholm, Sweden, on Alfred Nobel's death anniversary.Ed McMahon, the long time announcer of The Tonight Show, has died age 86. McMahon, who joined The Tonight Show in 1962, died at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center shortly after midnight on June 23. Made famous by his “Here’s Johnny!” catchphrase, McMahon worked with Tonight Show host Johnny Carson for 30 years. In recent years, McMahon had battled several health issues. In 2007, he fell and broke his neck through which he suffered pain until his death. He began to suffer from pneumonia in March 2009. Reports also began to surface that he had been diagnosed with suspected bone cancer. McMahon was a Marine Corps fighter pilot in World War II and returned to the United States after the war. He graduated college and became a television producer in Philadelphia. He later served in the Korean War, completing another tour of duty, then was selected as the announcer for ABC daytime program Who Do You Trust? This was the first time McMahon worked alongside Johnny Carson. The two were paired up again four years later as McMahon replaced Hugh Downs as the announcer on The Tonight Show. McMahon earned a reported US$1 million a year working with Carson. McMahon also appeared in several films and was the host of the talent show Star Search. He annually co-hosted the Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon and conducted coverage of the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. McMahon is survived by his wife Pam and five children. No funeral arrangements have been planned as of yet.Rogers Cadenhead, the American owner of BenedictXVI.com, has made a few requests in his blog. Mr. Cadenhead registered the valuable domain on April 1 along with ClementXV.com, InnocentXIV.com, LeoXIV.com, PaulVII.com and PiusXIII.com; all in anticipation of the recent Papal conclave 2005. After Cardinal Ratzinger's election as Pope Benedict XVI, international media swooped on the domain speculating that it may be owned by a pornographer or casino company. However amid the wild speculation, Mr. Cadenhead dismissed these and promised not to sell the domain to any such enterprises.However today in a humorous manner the prolific computer guide writer posted on his blog a few requests, namely:Three days, two nights at the Vatican hotel they built for the conclaveOne of those hatsComplete absolution, no questions asked, for the third week of March 1987A back-cover blurb from the Pope for the next edition of Movable Type 3 Bible Desktop Edition. But only if he uses the book to create his own weblog, andWorld peace.However he was keen to stress that the requests are not demands and the whole thing was written in a witty humorous manner.Actor Amrish Puri, who was most known for his role as "Mogambo" in the movie "Mr. India" died of on Wednesday at the age of 72. Hospital sources say that his death was due to a blood clot in his brain after a brain haemorrhage. A veteran of sorts, Amrish worked in over 221 movies in his life time, most of which were in Bollywood (Mumbai, India). In his initial attempt to get into the movies in 1954, he was rejected during a screen-test for a hero's role and only started acting at the age of 40 — nearly twenty years later. He went on to become the most popular "villain" on the silver screen.A wax model of British singer Amy Winehouse was unveiled on Wednesday at Madame Tussauds in London. The model, nearly six feet tall and clad in a yellow dress with a microphone in hand, is said to bear a strong likeness to the singer. Her tattoos have even been reproduced to the last detail, including one of a lightning bolt.While her parents attended the event, Winehouse herself was too busy working to attend. Her father Mitch remarked that "This is the reward for her musical achievements and her talent".The troubled singer, 24, is well known for her drug use, and last month was thought to have been suffering from the early stages of emphysema.There are two things one can expect on a trip to see Michael Musto at the offices of the Village Voice: a 20-minute round-trip wait for the elevator and rapid fire answers from one of the most recognizable gossip columnists in the United States.  Musto, in addition to his appearances on Countdown with Keith Olbermann and the E! network, has been writing his column for the Voice since 1984.  He has recently compiled the best of them in a book released this year titled, La Dolce Musto: Writings by the World's Most Outrageous Columnist.  He was Carrie Bradshaw, replete with a prodigious use of puns, before Sex in the City was a thought.  His column is a romp through his life, spats and opinions on socio-political issues.  As David Thigpen of the Chicago Tribune wrote, Musto is "a funny and caustic satirist who masquerades as a gossip and nightlife columnist."Musto, a Columbia University graduate, is a rarity in today's celebrity world: he is accessible.  He often corresponds with his readers and his public functions are a mix of parties, nightclubs, academic lectures, university panels and film premieres.  He is friendly and frank, and he welcomes people to join him in his world ("I just got a message that Michael Lucas died!" he says staring wide-eyed at his phone; the message turned out to be false).  Wikinews reporter David Shankbone spoke with Musto about his life and his relationship to the world of celebrity journalism.  And he did not hold back.Digital radio listeners in the UK may have noticed a new station on their list over the last few months with the beta launch of Amazing Radio, founded by Paul Campbell as a follow up and companion to Amazing Tunes.  However, unlike the majority of the other stations on both digital and FM, Amazing Radio doesn't play normal, mainstream music.  Instead, its playlist consists solely of music from unsigned bands and artists who have signed up and uploaded their music to AmazingTunes.com.  Their music can then be downloaded from the site, for which they get paid.  The more downloads and interest an artist receives, the more likely they are to get played on the national radio station.  Amazing markets itself as an "ethical" download website, on which artists get 70% of the download revenues.  They now have more than 22,000 songs uploaded, with about 100 uploaded every day.  Paul Campbell himself has extensive experience in both radio and television production, having worked for BBC Radio 4 and Channel 4.  After success with his own production company in the nineties and with support from investors, Campbell launched Amazing Tunes in 2005.As Amazing Radio introduces a new schedule for the New Year, with presenters rather than solely pre-recorded links, Wikinews reporter Tristan Thomas interviewed Campbell to find out more.An early medieval Christian Psalter (prayer book) was discovered in a bog in the Midland Region of Ireland on July 25, 2006, prompting some to term it the Irish version of the Dead Sea Scrolls.The psalter was found by a worker excavating peat from the bog. The worker immediately covered the book with damp soil, as exposure to dry air after so many centuries of dampness might have destroyed it. He was praised by Dr. Patrick Wallace, director of the National Museum of Ireland, for doing that. The book was found open to the page of Psalm 83.The Psalter is currently kept under refrigeration at the National Museum while researchers determine how to open the book without damaging the book's pages and possibly destroying it.In the 18 months since Andrea Muizelaar was crowned winner of the reality TV series Canada's Next Top Model, her life has been a complete whirlwind. From working in a dollar store in her hometown of Whitby, Ontario, to modeling haute couture in Toronto, she had reached her dream of becoming a true Top Model.But at what cost? Unknown to casual television viewers, Muizelaar had been enveloped in the eating disorder anorexia nervosa, which inevitably became too much for her to bear. She gave up modeling and moved back to Whitby, where she sought treatment for her disorder, re-entered college, and now works at a bank. Where is she now? Happy and healthy, she says.Recently Andrea Muizelaar sat down with Wikinews reporter Mike Halterman in a candid interview that stretched to nearly two hours, as she told all about her hopes and aspirations, her battle with anorexia, and just what really happened on Canada's Next Top Model.The Director of the National Museum of Australia, Andrew Sayers, has resigned his position effective July 1 in a move that came as a surprise to his colleagues.  Sayers cited distance issues as his wife is currently working full time in Melbourne.Sayers is quoted in a statement as saying, "I leave the museum confident that the reputation of the Museum as the home of our national treasures is one of which we can all be proud. [...] Professionally, I have enjoyed making a contribution to the Museum, yet, as many couples have discovered a 'commuter relationship' is not ideal."Sayers was contracted for five years, and was only into his third year in the post.  Prior to his position at the National Museum, he spent ten years in the same role at the National Portrait Gallery of Australia.  He also spent thirteen years working as as a curator and assistant director at the National Gallery of Australia.  He began his museum career at Art Gallery of New South Wales and Newcastle Region Art Gallery. Following his resignation, Sayers will retire to live in Melbourne with his wife.About 50 cyclists have been involved in a hit-and-run attack by a car in the suburb of Mascot, just south of the centre of Sydney, Australia.The cyclists, including former Australian Olympian Ben Kersten, and road racer Kate Nichols, were in a group of cyclists hit when a driver who had been "worrying" the rear of the pack, overtook the cyclists, pulled in front of the pack, and then slammed on the brakes.The riders suffered a collection of minor scrapes and bruises, but no deaths were caused. The incident, which has been reported to have caused approximately A$30,000 worth of property damage to the cyclist's vehicles, also caused a semi-trailer to jack-knife, and cars to swerve.  Although the cyclists had been following Australian road rules, the National Roads and Motorists' Association's senior adviser, Anne Morphett, said a large bike pack can sometimes stretch to 40 metres. "They need to break them up so cars can overtake safely. You might have three across and five deep, but not 40 or 50 deep," she said. "We want to see people get their training in but they need to be in areas that are safe - and these are public roads, not a training facility."Kate Nichols, one of the injured, was also seriously injured in a crash in Germany in 2005 involving the Australian women's road cycling team that killed Australian cyclist Amy Gillett.The driver, a 34 year old man from Claymore, has been spoken to, but has yet to be charged.Anna Nicole Smith, who was born as Vickie Lynn Hogan, was found unconscious in the Seminole Hard Rock Hotel and Casino in Hollywood, Florida in her 6th floor hotel room. One of her attorneys has confirmed that she was pronounced dead at a hospital less than an hour later. She was 39.Paramedics are reported to have performed CPR on the actress and had to have breathing equipment inserted into her chest after a nurse found her passed out in her hotel room and witnesses say that Smith was receiving CPR while the ambulance took her to the hospital around 2:00 p.m. [EST].  Smith's bodyguard is reported to have given Smith "cardiopulmonary resuscitation" before paramedics arrived."I can confirm that she is deceased. It's as shocking to me as to you guys. I don't know what the cause was. This is just tragic and that's all you can say right now and I don't know anything further," said one of Anna Nicole's lawyers, Ron Rale.Smith was taken by ambulance to Memorial Regional Hospital and "checked in Monday [to the hotel] at 8 p.m. as a guest. She was due to check out tomorrow," said cafe spokeswoman, Danielle Giordaano."Our rescue crews got there, and they were escorted to a bedroom, where they found a female alone in her room and unresponsive. We then began our normal protocol for dealing with a non-breathing individual. The victim never regained consciousness and we continued with CPR and all life-support methods right up until the time we delivered her to the hospital and then the hospital takes over," said a spokesman for the responding paramedics team. Smith was pronounced dead at the hospital at 2:49 p.m. [EST].According to Broward County Medical Examiner's Office investigator, Edwina Johnson, an autopsy will be performed on Smith on Friday and that her death is currently being investigated. Authorities are not yet treating her death as a crime.One of Smith's attorneys, Howard K. Stern, is reported to have been staying with Smith in her room, but authorities have yet to locate Mr. Stern.  Mr. Stern is identified by TRIMSPA as Smith's husband."He was here with her. I don't know where he's at right now," said Charlie Tiger the chief of the Seminole Police Department also adding that Smith's 5 month old baby was not with them.Smith was a spokeswoman for the company TRIMSPA when she passed, and TrimSpa has removed all content from their site for now, shutting it down and posting only a message in response to her death."Today, Anna Nicole Smith’s grief stricken and tumultuous personal life came to an end. Anna came to our Company as a customer, but she departs it as a friend. While life for Anna Nicole was not easy these past few months, she held dear her husband, Howard K. Stern, her daughter, Dannielynn Hope, her most cherished friends, beloved dogs, and finally, her work with TRIMSPA. Anna knew both the joy of giving life, and the heartache of losing a child. We pray that she is granted the peace that eluded her more recent days on earth, and that she find comfort in the presence of her son, Daniel," said the statement on TRIMSPA's website posted by Alex Goen, CEO and Founder of TRIMSPA.Smith was rushed to the hospital in November of 2006 after she was suffering from symptoms of pneumonia. Smith's son, Daniel Smith, died on September 10, 2006 shortly after Anna gave birth to a baby girl 5 months ago.Smith was shopping for a new boat in Florida and reports say she felt ill and had a fever for at least a day.This Sunday, the International Animated Film Association (Association International du Film d'Animation) or ASIFA will hand out the Annie Awards in Glendale, California. As animation's highest honor, the crowd is always a who's who of direction, art design, character design, layout, visual effects, and voice artists.There are 23 award categories in the Annies, sorted into Individual Achievement and Production categories.Perhaps the most competitive category is "Best Animated Feature", which will be a fight between Cars (Pixar Animation Studios), Happy Feet (Warner Bros. Pictures/Village Roadshow Pictures/Kennedy Miller Production/Animal Logic Film), Monster House (Columbia Pictures/ImageMovers/Amblin), Open Season (Sony Pictures Animation/Columbia Pictures) and Over The Hedge (DreamWorks Animation).Cars, Happy Feet, and Monster House are all nominated in the Academy Awards for the same category, perhaps signifying an edge up in the competition.Direct-to-DVD releases are eligible for the "Best Home Entertainment Production". Included are Bambi II (DisneyToon Studios), The Adventures of Brer Rabbit (Universal Animation Studios), and Winnie the Pooh: Shapes & Sizes (DisneyToon Studios).Charlie and Lola, Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends, King of the Hill, The Fairly OddParents, and Wow! Wow! Wubbzy! are all up for "Best Animated Television Production"."Best Animated Video Game" will be awarded to either Flushed Away The Game (D3 Publisher of America, Inc.), Monster House (THQ, Inc.), and SpongeBob SquarePants: Creature From the Krusty Krab (THQ, Inc.); the category was just created last year.Adventure Time (Nickelodeon), Fumi and the Bad Luck Foot (Thunderbean Animation), No Time For Nuts (Blue Sky Studios), and Weird Al Yankovic Don't Download This Song (Acme Filmworks) are all up for "Best Animated Short Subject". Only No Time for Nuts is up for an Oscar, which has significantly different rules. "Best Animated Television Commercial" will go to either an advertisement for Candy Factory, ESPN, Hilton, St. Louis Zoo, and United Airlines.Notably, no non-US films or productions have been nominated for any of the awards.The annual Sunday Times Rich List published today showed that Ireland now has six euro billionaires, up from four last year. The combined wealth of Irelands 250 wealthiest is €42.3bn.Topping the list was the new entrant Hilary Weston with a fortune estimated at over €7.2bn. Weston was excluded in previous lists because the majority of her wealth was made abroad, however a rule change this year allowed the Dublin born model to enter in first place. Mrs Weston, 63, grew up in Ireland and built her modeling career there before becoming wed to Galen Weston, heir to his grandfathers multi-billion euro retailing fortune in Canada. The couple permanently moved to Canada in 1983 after a kidnap attempt by the IRA.The top six on the list were as follows:Hilary Weston and family; €7.286bn - RetailingSir Tony O'Reilly; €1.897bn - Food, media and inheritanceJohn Dorrance; €1.857bn - InheritanceDermot Desmond; €1.239bn - FinanceSean Quinn; €1.157bn - Quarries, hotels, insurance and industryTony Ryan; €1.114bn - AirlineThe iconic rock group U2 placed 10th with a combined fortune of €629m.The Internet-based group "Anonymous" released a new video on YouTube Monday, announcing international protests outside Church of Scientology centers set for February 10. The video "Call to Action" uses the same computer synthesized voice as a previous video titled "Message to Scientology", which was posted to YouTube last Monday. The "Message to Scientology" video has been viewed over 1,400,000 times, and the "Call to Action" video has already been viewed over 237,000 times.Anonymous is taking action against the Church of Scientology in response to what it sees as suppression of freedom of speech on the Internet.  The group was first motivated after the Church of Scientology issued a copyright infringement claim to YouTube regarding a promotional video of Scientologist Tom Cruise speaking about his beliefs and using Scientology jargon. The Church of Scientology also issued a legal complaint to the website Gawker.com which is also hosting the video, but Gawker has stated it will not take the video down because it is newsworthy.Anonymous set up a movement called "Project Chanology" to coordinate their efforts, and took down several Church of Scientology websites through denial-of-service attacks. Members of Anonymous have also participated in prank calls to Church of Scientology centers, as well as protests or "raids" outside Scientology buildings, and have posted some of their exploits to YouTube. In the "Call to Action" video, Anonymous denies that they are composed solely of "super hackers", stating "Anonymous is a collective of individuals united by an awareness that someone must do the right thing, that someone must bring light to the darkness, that someone must open the eyes of a public that has slumbered for far too long." The video goes on to state "We want you to be aware of the very real dangers of Scientology," citing what they term "gross human rights violations". Specific controversial events in Scientology history are cited in the video, including Operation Freakout and Paulette Cooper, and Operation Snow White. Operation Freakout was the name of a Church of Scientology operation whose goal was to "get P.C. [Paulette Cooper] incarcerated in a mental institution or jail or at least to hit her so hard that she drops her attacks." Paulette Cooper had written a book critical of Scientology called The Scandal of Scientology. Operation Snow White was the name of a Church of Scientology operation where members of the Church's secretive Guardian's Office infiltrated United States government agencies in Washington, D.C. including the I.R.S. The F.B.I.'s investigation into Operation Snow White led them to discover the planning of actions taken against Paulette Cooper.The video concludes by inviting the viewer to "take up the banner of free speech" and protest with Anonymous world wide. In an email to CNET News, Anonymous stated that cities where unknown activities are planned on February 10 include New York City, Montreal, Houston, London, Melbourne, and Los Angeles.On Friday, two spokespersons for the Church of Scientology commented on the recent actions of Anonymous. A spokesman told News.com.au "These types of people have got some wrong information about us," and Church spokeswoman Yvette Shank told Sun Media that she regarded members of Anonymous as a "pathetic" group of "computer geeks". On Monday, Radar reported that the Church of Scientology has asked the U.S. Attorney General's office in Los Angeles, the F.B.I., and the LAPD to start a criminal investigation of possible criminal activity related to the Internet attacks. A source told Radar that the Church of Scientology is arguing that the Internet attacks are a form of "illegal interference with business." Radar also reports that the Church of Scientology is emphasizing its status as a religious organization in the United States, in order to assert that the Internet attacks can be classed as hate crimes.On Saturday, Mark Bunker of the website XenuTV.com posted a video to YouTube criticizing the illegal actions of Anonymous and suggested legal methods for them to retaliate against the Church of Scientology, including peaceful protesting, writing letters to their government representatives, and persuading the United States government to take away the Church of Scientology's tax exempt status. In the video, Bunker states "I'm mainly concerned because you shouldn't be doing things that are illegal, you just shouldn't. It's not morally right, and it's not right when Scientology does it, it's not right when we do it." Bunker's video post has been viewed over 156,000 times. On Sunday, Bunker posted a follow-up video to YouTube where he gives advice to Anonymous on how to peacefully picket. He also provides viewers with resources and weblinks to more information on how to hold a peaceful protest. He concludes this video by imitating Obi-Wan Kenobi's Jedi mind trick technique and voice from Star Wars, stating "And if I may, as Obi-Wan, tell you: You will do nothing illegal ".The Internet-based group "Anonymous" has released statements on YouTube and via a press release, outlining what they call a "War on Scientology".  Church of Scientology related websites, such as religiousfreedomwatch.org have been removed due to a suspected distributed denial-of-service-attack (DDoS) by a group calling themselves "Anonymous". On Friday, the same group allegedly brought down Scientology's main website, scientology.org, which was available sporadically throughout the weekend. Several websites relating to the Church of Scientology have been slowed down, brought to a complete halt or seemingly removed from the Internet completely in an attack which seems to be continuous. The scientology.org site was back online briefly on Monday, and is currently loading slowly.  On Monday, the group released a video titled: "Message to Scientology" on YouTube concerning their intentions to attack the Church of Scientology.  A robotic voice on the video begins with "Hello leaders of Scientology. We are Anonymous," and continues by explaining their motivations: "Over the years we have been watching you, your campaigns of misinformation, your suppression of dissent and your litigious nature. All of these things have caught our eye. With the leakage of your latest propaganda video into mainstream circulation the extent of your malign influence over those who have come to trust you as leaders has been made clear to us. Anonymous has therefore decided that your organisation should be destroyed."  The message goes on to state that the group intends to "expel Scientology from the Internet". As of Wednesday, the video had been viewed 370,347 times, favorited 2,473 times, and is currently YouTube's top third video of the day.The "Message to Scientology" video was highlighted as the "YouTube Video of the Week" by The Michigan Daily. Commenting on the video, the piece states "if this video is any indication, it seems like the assailants mean business". In a blog post on USA Today's website, Jess Zielinski wrote that it was "not a shock that hackers hold a grudge against Scientology," and in a followup post on another USA Today blog, Angela Gunn wrote that "those of us who remember ... the adventures of Operation Clambake are fascinated to see this kind of thing flare up again". Blogging for Wired magazine, Ryan Singel wrote about the incident in a piece on Wednesay titled "War Breaks Out Between Hackers and Scientology -- There Can Be Only One". Singel wrote that the Project Chanology wiki page "directs Anonymous members to download and use denial of service software, make prank calls, host Scientology documents the Church considers proprietary, and fax endless loops of black pages to the Church's fax machines to waste ink". According to Wired, "The Church of Scientology did not immediately respond to a call for comment".The viewpoints expressed in the video are echoed on the "Project Chanology" website, an open source of information and direction for those within Anonymous, which talks of tactics such as blackfaxing and prank calling alongside other "real-life" methods of attack. The satirical website Encyclopedia Dramatica also has a similar page devoted to "Project Chanology"."Anonymous" released a statement on Monday in the form of a press release, "Internet Group Anonymous Declares "War on Scientology": "Anonymous" are fighting the Church of Scientology and the Religious Technology Center". In the statement, the group explained their goal as safeguarding the right to freedom of speech "A spokesperson said that the group's goals include bringing an end to the financial exploitation of Church members and protecting the right to free speech, a right which they claim was consistently violated by the Church of Scientology in pursuit of its opponents." The press release also claimed that the Church of Scientology misused copyright and trademark law in order to remove criticism from websites including Digg and YouTube.  The statement goes on to assert that the attacks from the group "will continue until the Church of Scientology reacts, at which point they will change strategy".The attack was reportedly motivated by the Church of Scientology's attempts to remove a promotional video featuring Scientologist Tom Cruise from YouTube. After the Church of Scientology lodged a copyright infringement complaint with YouTube, the site took down the video. The Tom Cruise video is still available on Gawker.com, which has stated it will not remove the video "It's newsworthy, and we will not be removing it."  Gawker.com discussed the actions of the "Anonymous" group, in a post on Monday titled "Scientology vs. the Internet: Why Kids On The Internet Are Scientology's Most Powerful Enemy". Gawker.com briefly outlined actions of other anonymous users critical of Scientology, including actions taken in the past by users of YouTube, Digg, and YTMND "This isn't the only group of Internet users unafraid of the intimidating cult; a whole range of sites has turned the Church into a mockery by doing what mainstream celebrity-coverage outlets wouldn't dare."A poster on the newsgroup alt.religion.scientology (a.r.s.) was critical of the actions by the "Anonymous" group.  In a post titled "Open Letter to Anonymous" Jeff Jacobsen, webmaster of lisamcpherson.org, posting as "cultxpt" wrote that "It's understandable that people get upset over the things the Church of Scientology has done online and off", pointing out that the Church of Scientology had "tried to shut down a.r.s.", and "spam our newsgroup to this day". In 1999 "sporgery", a form of nonsensical spam tactic, was used as an attempt to disrupt discussion on the newsgroup. Previously in 1995 Helena Kobrin, an attorney for the Church of Scientology, attempted to remove the a.r.s. group from Usenet. Kobrin sent a rmgroup message which stated: "We have requested that the alt.religion.scientology newsgroup be removed from all sites". This later led to a declaration of war by the hacker group Cult of the Dead Cow, and an increase in popularity of the a.r.s site. This initial conflict came to be known as "Scientology versus the Internet".The post from Jacobsen went on to criticize the actions of the "Anonymous" group, stating: "We're supposed to be the good people," and stated that contrary to the Anonymous group's tactics, "Our weapons as critics are reason, evidence, argument, and free speech".On Tuesday, the founder of Operation Clambake, a non-profit organization and website critical of Scientology based in Stavanger, Norway, released a statement about the attacks by "Anonymous". Andreas Heldal-Lund was critical of the "Anonymous" groups actions, stating: "The author of Operation Clambake does not condone such activity. Attacking Scientology like that will just make them play the religious persecution card. They will use it to defend their own counter actions when they try to shatter criticism and crush critics without mercy." Heldal-Lund went on to emphasize the right of all people and organizations to freedom of speech - including the Church of Scientology: "Freedom of speech means we need to allow all to speak - including those we strongly disagree with. I am of the opinion that the Church of Scientology is a criminal organisation and a cult which is designed by its delusional founder to abuse people. I am still committed to fight for their right to speak their opinion."The city of Antalya, Turkey, is going to host almost 1000 children from 40 countries on April 23, the International Children's Day. The children will march through the city and perform special performances. This day was declared International Children's Day by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk to indicate how important children are for the future of the country. This day, Turkish children representatives replace officials of various ranks, including the Prime Minister, the President and Ministers, governors of provinces and even the parliamentarians in the House of Parliament, where the children representatives discuss topics concerning children's issues.Many hope to renew acquaintances, or meet new friends. Others look to buy from dealers and artists, or show off new artwork or costumes. Some attend to make money, or even learn a thing or two. But one thing unites them: They're all there to have fun.Oxfam, an international organisation intending to eliminate poverty, has criticised the way in which Africa is depicted to United Kingdom (UK) audiences. In a press release, the charity said the continent was being portrayed in an "overwhelmingly negative" way which is "undermining popular support for efforts to bring an end to hunger on the continent". Dame Barbara Stocking, CEO of Oxfam, has said the way in which the continent is being depicted to UK audiences "is obscuring the progress that is being made towards a more secure and prosperous future".Oxfam cited a survey of 2000 people conducted by marketing research company YouGov, suggesting three fifths of people have become less sensitive towards footage containing persons suffering from such problems as drought, disease and hunger, while 23% avoid looking at footage of this nature upon sighting it. Oxfam said the way in which broadcast media portrays developing nations, including those in Africa, was perceived to be "depressing, manipulative and hopeless" by those surveyed. Stocking believes "it’s a natural instinct to turn away from suffering when you feel you can do nothing to alleviate it."47% of respondents considered hunger to be one of the three largest issues for Africa next year. 43% of respondents thought media portrayal of conditions for persons living in developing areas suggested no hope for improvement. In the 2011 Human Development Report, published by the United Nations Development Programme, over three fourths of the 46 countries ranked under the 'Low Human Development' category — the lowest-ranking category in the Human Development Index — were African. The Democratic Republic of the Congo ranked lowest on the list; the other fourteen entries in the bottom fifteen of this category were all African nations. Stocking has said Oxfam does not mean to "gloss over" issues surrounding African citizens at a significant risk of harm and stressed that malnutrition rates "remain stubbornly high".However, of people surveyed only one fifth believed they could actively assist in eliminating food poverty in Africa. Meanwhile, 74% believed it is possible to eventually resolve the issue of hunger in Africa."[W]e’ve come a long way since the 1980s and Band Aid’s Do They Know It’s Christmas?," Stocking said. Band Aid, a charity supergroup created by Bob Geldof and Midge Ure, was formed following the broadcasting of footage of Ethiopian citizens experiencing a famine in the mid 1980s."We need to shrug off the old stereotypes and celebrate the continent’s diversity and complexity," Stocking said, concluding: "If we want people to help fight hunger we have to give them grounds for hope by showing the potential of countries across Africa".Boston-based singer-songwriter Antje Duvekot has made a name for herself in the folk music world with powerful ballads of heartbreak and longing for a deeper spirituality, but coming up empty-handed.  Below is David Shankbone's interview with the folk chanteuse.  David Shankbone:  Tell me about your new album.Antje Duvekot:  It’s called Big Dream Boulevard and it’s the first studio album I made.  It’s not so new; I made it in May of 2006.  It’s produced by Séamus Egan, who is the leader of a fairly renowned band named Solas.DS:  You mentioned you used to explore more dark themes in your work, but that lately you are exploring lighter fare.  What themes are you exploring on this album?  AD:  In the future I am hoping for more light themes.  I feel like I have worked through a lot of the darkness, and personally I feel like I’m ready to write a batch of lighter songs, but that’s just how I’m feeling right now.  My last record, Big Dream Boulevard, was a pretty heavy record and that was not intentional.  I write what is on my mind.DS:  What were you going through that made it so dark?AD:  The record is drawn from my whole writing career, so it’s old and new songs as well.  I wasn’t going through anything in particular because it was spanning a wide time period.  I think it’s fair to say that over all I turn to music in times of trouble and need as a therapeutic tool to get me through sadness.  That’s why I tend to turn to music.  So my songs tend to be a little darker, because that’s where I tend to go for solace.  So themes like personal struggle with relationships and existential issues.DS:  What personal relationships do you struggle with?AD:  A lot of my songs are about dating and relationship troubles.  That’s one category.  But a lot of my songs are about existential questions because I struggle with what to believe in.DS:  Do you believe in a higher power?AD:  I’m sort of an atheist who wishes I could believe something.DS:  What do you believe?AD:  It’s undefined.   I think I’m spiritual in music, which is my outlet, but I just can’t get on board with an organized religion.  Not even Unitarianism.  I do miss something like that in my life, though.DS:  Why do you miss having religion in your life?AD:  I think every human being craves a feeling that there is a higher purpose.  It’s a need for me.  A lot of my songs express that struggle.DS:  Does the idea that our lives on Earth may be all that there is unsettle you?AD:  Yes, sure.  I think there’s more.  I’m always seeking things of beauty, and my art reflects the search for that.DS:  You had said in an interview that your family wasn’t particularly supportive of your career path, but you are also saying they were atheists who weren’t curious about the things you are curious about.  It sounds like you were a hothouse flower.AD:  Yes.  I think what went with my parents' atheism was a distrust of the arts as frivolous and extraneous.  They were very pragmatic.DS:  They almost sound Soviet Communist.AD:  Yeah, a little bit [Laughs].  They had an austere way of living, and my wanting to pursue music as a career was the last straw.DS:  What’s your relationship with them now?AD:  I don’t actually speak to my mother and stepfather.DS:  Why?AD:  A lot of reasons, but when I was about 21 I was fairly certain I wanted to go the music path and they said, “Fine, then go!”DS:  That’s the reason you don’t speak with them?AD:  That’s the main.  “Go ahead, do what you want, and have a nice life.”   So the music thing cost the relationship with my parents, although I think there may have been some other things that have done it.DS:  That must be a difficult thing to contend with, that a career would be the basis for a relationship.AD:Yes, it’s strange, but my love of music is perhaps stronger for it because of the sacrifices I have made for it early on.  I had to fight.DS:  Would you say in your previous work some of your conflict of dating would have been birthed from how your relationship with your family?  How do you see the arc of your work?AD:  My songs are sort of therapy for me, so you can trace my personal progress through them [Laughs].  I think there is some improvement.  I wrote my first love song the other day, so I think I’m getting the hang of what relationships are all about.  I’m ever grateful for music for being there for me when things weren’t going so well.DS:  Has the Iraq War affected you as an artist?AD:  Not directly, but I do have a few songs that are political.  One about George Bush and the hypocrisy, but it’s very indirect; you wouldn’t know it was about George Bush.DS:  How has it affected you personally?AD:  I feel sad about it.  People say my music is sad, but it’s a therapeutic thing so the war affects me.DS:  The struggle to be original in art is innate.  When you are coming up with an idea for a song and then you all of a sudden stumble across it having been done somewhere else, how do you not  allow that to squelch your creative impulse and drive to continue on.AD:  That’s a good question.  I started writing in a vacuum just for myself and I didn’t have a lot of feedback, and I thought that what I’m saying has been said so many times before.  Then my songs got out there and people told me, ‘You  say it so originally’ and I thought ‘Really?!’  The way I say it, to me, sounds completely trite because it’s the way I would say it and it doesn’t sound special at all.  Once my record came out I got some amount of positive reviews that made me think I have something original, which in turn made me have writer’s block to keep that thing that I didn’t even know I had.  So now I’m struggling with that, trying to maintain my voice.  Right now I feel a little dried-out creatively.DS:  When I interviewed Augusten Burroughs he told me that when he was in advertising he completely shut himself off from the yearly ad books that would come out of the best ads that year, because he wanted to be fresh and not poisoned by other ideas; whereas a band called The Raveonettes said they don’t try to be original they just do what they like and are upfront about their influences.  Where do you fall in that spectrum?AD:  Probably more towards Augusten Burroughs because when I first started writing it was more in a vacuum, but I think everyone has their own way.  You can’t not be influenced by your experience in life.DS:  Who would you say are some of your biggest influences in the last year.  Who have you discovered that has influenced you the most?AD:  Influence is kind of a strong word because I don’t think I’m taking after these people.  I’ve been moved by this girl named Anais Mitchell.  She’s a singer-songwriter from Vermont who is really unique.  She’s just got signed to Righteous Babe Records.  Patty Griffin just moves me deeply.DS:  You moved out of New York because you had some difficulty with the music scene here?AD:  I feel it is a little tougher to make it here than in Boston if you are truly acoustic folk lyric driven.  I find that audiences in New York like a certain amount of bling and glamor to their performances.  A little more edge, a little cooler.  I felt for me Boston was the most conducive environment.DS:  Do you feel home up in Boston?AD:I do, and part of that is the great folk community.DS:  Why do you think Boston has such a well-developed folk scene?AD:  It’s always historically been a folk hub.  There’s a lot of awesome folk stations like WUMB and WERS.  Legendary folk clubs, like Club Passim.  Those have stayed in tact since the sixties.DS:  Is there anything culturally about Boston that makes it more conducive to folk?AD:  Once you have a buzz, the buzz creates more buzz.  Some people hear there’s a folk scene in Boston, and then other people move there, so the scene feeds itself and becomes a successful scene.  It’s on-going.DS:  Do you have a favorite curse word?AD:  [Giggles]  Cunt.  [Giggles]DS:  Really?!  You are the first woman I have met who likes that word!AD:  Oh, really?  I’ll use it in a traffic situation.  Road rage.  [Laughs]DS:  Do you find yourself more inspired by man-made creations, including people and ideas, or nature-made creations?AD:  I love nature, but it is limited.  It is what it is, and doesn’t include the human imagination that can go so much further than nature.DS:  What are some man made things that inspire you?AD:  New York City as a whole is just an amazing city.  People are so creative and it is the hub of personal creativity, just in the way people express themselves on a daily basis.DS:  Do you think you will return?In theory I will return one day if I have money, but in theory you need money to enjoy yourself.DS:  What trait do you deplore in yourself?AD:  Like anyone, I think laziness.  I’m a bit a hard on myself, but there’s always more I can do.  As a touring singer-songwriter I work hard, but sometimes I forget because I get to sleep in and my job is not conventional, and sometimes I think ‘Oh, I don’t even have a job, how lazy I am!’ [Laughs]  Then, of course, there are times I’m touring my ass off and I work hard as well.  It comes in shifts.  There are times there is so much free time I have to structure my own days, and that’s a challenge.DS:  When is the last time you achieved a goal and were disappointed by it and thought, “Is that all there is?”  Something you wanted to obtain, you obtained it, and it wasn’t nearly as fulfilling as you thought it would be.AD:  I was just thinking about the whole dream of becoming a musician.  I want to maybe do a research project about people’s dreams and how they feel about them after they come true.  It’s really interesting.  They change a lot.  When I was 17 I saw Ani Difranco on stage and I wanted to do that, and now I’m doing it.  Now I think about Ani very differently.  I wonder how long it took her to drive here, she must be tired; I’m thinking of all the pragmatic things that go on behind the scenes.  The backside of a dream you never consider when you’re dreaming it.  To some extent, having my dream fulfilled hasn’t been a let-down, but it’s changed.  It’s more realistic.DS:  What is a new goal?AD:  Balance.  Trying to grow my career enough to make sure it doesn’t consume me.  It’s hard to balance a touring career because there is no structure to your life.  I’m trying to take this dream and make it work as a job.DS:  How challenging is it to obtain that in the folk world?AD:  There’s not a lot of money in the folk world.  In generally right now I think people’s numbers are down and only a few people can make a living at it.  It’s pretty competitive.  I’m doing okay, but there’s no huge riches in it so I’m trying to think of my future and maintain a balance in it.DS:  Do you think of doing something less folk-oriented to give your career a push?Not really, I’ve done that a little bit by trying to approach the major labels, but that was when the major labels were dying so I came in at a bad time for that.  I found that when it comes to do it yourself, the folk world is the best place to make money because as soon as you go major you are paying a band.DS:  More money more problems.AD:  More money, more investing.  It’s a hard question.DS:  What things did you encounter doing a studio album that you had not foreseen?AD:  Giving up control is hard when you have a producer.  His vision, sometimes, is something you can’t understand and have to trust sometimes.  See how it comes out.  That was hard for me, because up until now I have been such a do it yourself, writing my own songs, recording them myself.DS:  What is your most treasured possession?AD:  I’d like to say my guitar, but I’m still looking for a good one.  I have this little latex glove.  [Laughs]  It’s a long story—DS:  Please!  Do tell!AD:  When I was in college I had a romantic friend named David, he was kind of my first love.  We were young and found this latex glove in a parking lot.  We though, “Oh, this is a nice glove, we’ll name him Duncan.”DS:  You found a latex glove in a parking lot and you decided to take it?AD:  Yeah [Laughs].  He became the symbol of our friendship.  He’s disgusting at this point, he’s falling apart.  But David and I are still friends and we’ll pass him back and forth to each other every three years or so when we’ve forgotten his existence.   David surprised me at a show in Philly.  He gave Duncan to the sound man who brought it back stage, and now I have Duncan.  So he’s kind of special to me.DS:  If you could choose how you die, how would you choose?AD:  Not freezing to death, and not in an airplane, because I’m afraid of flying.  Painlessly, like most people.  In my sleep when I’m so old and senile I don’t know what hit me.  I’d like to get real old.DS:  Would you be an older woman with long hair or short hair?AD:  I guess short hair, because long hair looks a little witchy on old people.DS:  Who are you supporting for President?AD:  I’m torn between Obama and Hillary.  Someone who is going to win, so I guess Hillary.DS:  You don’t think Obama would have a chance of winning?AD:  I don’t know.  If he did, I would support Barack.  I don’t really care; either of those would make me happy.DS:  What trait do you value most in your friends?AD:  Kindness.DS:  What trait do you deplore in other people?AD:  Arrogance.  Showiness.DS:  Where else are you going on tour?AD:  Alaska in a few days.  Fairbanks, Anchorage and all over the place.  I’m a little nervous because I will be driving by myself and I have this vision that if I get hit by a moose then I could freeze to death.DS:  And you have to fly up there!AD:  Yeah, and I hate flying as well—so I’m really scared!  [Laughs]DS:  Is there a big folk scene in Alaska?AD:  No, but I hear people are grateful if anyone makes it up there, especially in the winter.  I think they are hungry for any kind of entertainment, no matter the quality.  [Laughs]  Someone came to us!  I actually played there in June in this town called Seldovia, that has 300 people, and all 300 people came to my gig, so the next day I was so famous!  Everyone knew me, the gas station attendant, everyone.  It was surreal.DS:  So you had that sense of what Ani DiFranco must feel.AD:  Yeah!  I was Paul McCartney.  I thought this was what it must be like to be Bruce Springsteen, like I can’t even buy a stick of gum without being recognized.DS:  Did you like that?AD:  I think it would be awful to be that famous because you have moments when you just don’t feel like engaging.Antony & The Johnsons have won the 2005 Mercury Music Prize for their album I Am a Bird Now.Anthony Hegarty, born in Chichester, United Kingdom, won the award of £20,000 for creating the most original album by a British or Irish act during the last year.Other nominees included Coldplay, M.I.A. and the bookies favourites The Kaiser Chiefs.Apple have released several re-designs of their popular iPod range. In addition to the iPod Classic, Nano and Shuffle, they have announced the brand new iPod touch, a media player which mimics the iPhone's touch-screen capabilities.The new iPod Classic design features a larger memory space of up to 160GB or 40,000 songs, and has a new all-metal design. The iPod nano is now smaller and squarer, adding video playback to its features for the first time. The 4GB model is cheaper than its predecessor at $149/£99, but the 8GB is available in five colours at $199/£129. The iPod Shuffle is identical in design to the previous model, but is now available in a new range of five colours, with the same price of $79/£49.The iPod touch also features in-built wi-fi technology, enabling users to access the internet and download music from Apple's market-leading on line iTunes music store to their handset. It was announced that Starbucks would offer free wi-fi access to all users of the iPod touch in its cafes. The screen layout, similar to that of the iPhone, offers access to music, video, photos and the iTunes store. There are currently two models, at 8GB and 16GB of memory capacity.Apple CEO Steve Jobs also announced that the price of Apple's iPhone, currently only on sale in the US, will be cut by $200 to $399. He described the new iPod range as 'one of the seven wonders of the world'.Due to a standoff between NBC Universal and Apple Inc. regarding pricing of NBC shows on iTunes, Apple Inc. has canceled NBC's lineup of new shows. Currently, NBC shows can be downloaded for US$1.99. If Apple were to continue having the new season NBC shows available, NBC would require a download fee of $4.99, an increase of $3 per download. This is something that Apple is simply not willing to do to its customers. The rift, encompassing all NBC news, entertainment and sports programming requires that Apple no longer offer NBC's videos on iTunes after the current contract expires in December. In an effort to prevent disappointing iTunes customers, Apple has decided not to offer any of the NBC shows in September because they would have to pull the shows mid-season when the contract expires in December.The Beatles' label Apple Corps lost its court case against Apple Computer today in the High Court. Apple Corps argued that the iTunes Music Store was a breach of the 1991 settlement reached between the two parties. The 1991 agreement was that Apple Computer would not sell music branded with an apple. Mr Justice Anthony Mann agreed with Apple Computer's defence that, while the iTunes Music Store is branded, the music it sells is not - "I conclude that the use of the Apple logo ... does not suggest a relevant connection with the creative work." During the case Apple Corps showed the court just how many times the Apple Computer logo appeared during a typical download. The song purchased during the demonstration was Le Freak by Chic.After the case closed Apple Computer CEO Steve Jobs extended an invitation to the record label, "we have always loved the Beatles, and hopefully we can now work together to get them on the iTunes Music Store". Apple Corps have decided to take the case to the Court of Appeal. Speaking for Apple Corps, manager Neil Aspinall said, "with great respect to the trial judge, we consider he has reached the wrong conclusion."Apple Inc. announced Monday it has settled its decades-long trademark dispute with the Beatles' record company, Apple Corps. Under this new agreement, Apple Inc. will own all Apple trademarks and will license some to Apple Corps, and will continue to use its name and logo on its iTunes music service.This new settlement replaces the 1991 agreement between the two companies, which defined the context in which the two companies could use the Apple trademark."We love the Beatles, and it has been painful being at odds with them over these trademarks," said Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs. "It feels great to resolve this in a positive manner, and in a way that should remove the potential of further disagreements in the future.""The years ahead are going to be very exciting times for us," said Neil Aspinall, manager of Apple Corps. "We wish Apple Inc. every success and look forward to many years of peaceful co-operation with them."It was not disclosed whether the Beatles' music catalog was part of the deal.Apple Computers announced today that it's long awaited iTunes store is available to New Zealanders. They also launched the online Apple Store New Zealand which provides Apple products, such as iPods, Mac minis, etc. New Zealand is number 22 on the number of countries who have the iTunes store and the tenth music download store in New Zealand.The launch means that New Zealanders can now download music to transfer to their iPods, legally. However the music is only available to iPod's as converting the music to the MP3 standard for other MP3 players is illegal in New Zealand. Some music download sites in New Zealand support MP3 formats, like Digirama which sell their music tracks for $1.75.The New Zealand iTunes store provides the most digital music tracks in New Zealand at around two million and each song costs NZ$1.79 or a music video costs $3.59 of which there around thousands, an album will usually cost about $17.99 and a game will cost $7.99. The music tracks also include New Zealand artists such as Brooke Fraser, Tim Finn, Fat Freddy's Drop, etc and also includes international exclusive albums such as Red Hot Chili Peppers, Ben Harper, etc.Eddy Cue, vice president of Apple, said: "We're thrilled to bring the iTunes Store and the online Apple Store to our customers in New Zealand just in time for the holidays."There were rumours surrounding the launch of a New Zealand iTunes store this week.The podcast section on iTunes also covers a wide range of podcasts, equalling over 65,000. The New Zealand podcasts include such companies as TVNZ (Television New Zealand), Radio New Zealand and The Voice Booth.It is commonly believed that the reason the store was halted until now was because Apple has to make separate contracts with each recording company in each country.iTunes is likely to become the dominant music download store in New Zealand, following the trend of other countries.The special edition iPod nano has also been released in New Zealand. The special edition is red in colour instead of the normal white and black colours. The special iPod is available only on the online store at the same price as the normal iPod nanos but some of the profit goes to help fight HIV/AIDS in Africa.Renaissance is New Zealand's distributor of Apple goods and will still keep its contract despite Renaissance not being directly involved in both of the new online stores. Renaissance said: "New Zealand will now come under Apple's worldwide pricing model."Apple has released an application that limits the volume produced from its iPod portable music players.  The software update, iPod Software 1.1.1, works with the iPod Nano and the Video version. Apple released the program in response to complaints that it had not taken necessary measures to prevent hearing loss in iPod users. In California, a class-action lawsuit was filed against Apple in January over claims of hearing loss from iPod use.Apple's worldwide vice-president of marketing for the iPod, Greg Joswiak, indicated that this patch is available for people who want "an easy-to-use option to set their own personal volume limit." It is available for free download.The software also has the option of being used with parental controls to prevent children from modifying the volume.iPods sold in France already have the volume limited, as the law forbids a sound louder than 100 decibels (dB). The American Speech Language Hearing Association published a study where it appears that iPod's (and mp3 players's) power is 120 dB, comparable to a live concert. A gunshot is 140 dB.The European Commission has forced Apple Inc. to lower its prices for media in its United Kingdom iTunes store, Apple's online media shop. The change in policy will occur within the next six months, Apple announced this morning.Apple is the producer of the world's most-sold MP3 Player, the iPod and launched the iTunes Music Store, a online music store, on April 28, 2003. The store was renamed to iTunes Store in 2006, as Apple began selling other media apart from music, such as feature-length movies. Since its launch the store has sold more than 3 billion songs. At the moment songs are sold for £0.79 per song and £7.99 per album which after the price cut will on average be reduced to £0.74 and £7.48 to match the EU prices of €0.99 and €9.99, according to Times Online.The price decrease follows an investigation by the European Commission due to Apple charging customers in the UK up to 10% more than in other EU countries. According to The Register, Apple will be demanding that the record labels lower their prices in the UK in respect to this forced price cut.The European Commission welcomed Apple's announcement and in a reaction to the news European Commissioner for Competition Neelie Kroes said "the Commission is very much in favour of solutions which allow consumers to benefit from a truly Single Market for music downloads."Five years after its launch, Apple Computer's iTunes downloadable music service in February passed Wal-Mart to become the No. 1 music seller in the United States, according to figures released April 3 by NPD Group, a market research firm.The firm said more than 4 billion songs had been downloaded from the iTunes store since its launch in 2003 and that as of February, the iTunes store accounts for 70% of all digital music sales. NPD said according to those figures, Apple's iTunes store passes U.S. electronics retailer Best Buy for the No. 2 U.S. music retailer in 2007.According to an April 2nd report in Ars Technica, an internal memo at Apple showed the company passed Wal-Mart as the top U.S. music seller Wal-Mart at the beginning of the year. Their projections showed that as of January 2008, Apple's iTunes held 19 percent of the U.S. music market with Wal-Mart at 15 percent, followed by Best Buy at 13 percent. Rounding out the top five were Amazon.com and Target at 6 percent each.On Monday, US-based tech company Apple, Inc. confirmed acquisition of UK-based song identification application Shazam. According to reports, the deal is worth US$400 million."We are thrilled that Shazam and its talented team will be joining Apple [...] and we can't imagine a better home for Shazam to enable us to continue innovating and delivering magic for our users.", Shazam spokesperson Giovanni Bossio said. Shazam has over one hundred million users. Founded in West London in 1999 by Avery Wang, Chris Barton, Dhiraj Mukharjee, and Philip Inghelbrecht, Shazam creates a "digital fingerprint of the audio"  and recognises a song, and provides other information including artist's name, album, lyrics, release year and record label company. It also provides links to music streaming services including Apple Music, Google Play Music and Spotify. Shazam generates revenue from advertisements and commission from streaming services.Shazam is integrated with Apple's voice assistant Siri. Apple spokesperson Tom Neumayr said, "Apple Music and Shazam are a natural fit, sharing a passion for music discovery and delivering great music experiences to our users. We have exciting plans in store, and we look forward to combining with Shazam upon approval of today's agreement."  Apple Music has about 27 million subscribers, while its competitor Spotify has about 60 million.California-based company Apple, Inc. acquired Dr. Dre's Beats Electronics three years ago for US$3 billion.Angela Gossow, longtime singer for Swedish extreme metal band Arch Enemy, announced yesterday  via the band's Facebook page she is leaving the band."After 13 years of pure fucking metal, 6 studio albums and countless tours through five continents, I feel the need to enter a different phase in my life, be with my family and pursue other interests." Gossow says she will stay on to manage Arch Enemy and plans to manage other acts as well.She added "I am passing the torch to the super talented Alissa White-Gluz, whom I’ve known as a dear friend and a superb vocalist for many years." White-Gluz leaves The Agonist, of Canada and another extreme metal band.White-Gluz remarks she is "very honoured and happy to announce a new chapter in my life and musical career[...] I have joined forces with one of my all-time favourite and globally respected bands". The Agonist have replaced her with Vicky Psarakis, whom they describe as "very talented" and "thrilled" to have.Founded in 1995, Arch Enemy replaced founding vocalist Johan Liiva with Gossow in 2000. She made her recorded debut with the band the following year on Wages of Sin. Fans are set to hear White-Gluz's vocals in June with the release of War Eternal.Gossow said yesterday "Right now I am listening through rough mixes of the new studio album and I am blown away!" Fan reaction to the announcement has been mixed, with the most-liked Facebook comment by far being "Arch Enemy without Angela Gossow is not Arch Enemy anymore".Founding member, leader, and head songwriter Michael Amott said "We welcome Alissa with open arms — and we hope you will have open ears." Arch Enemy are producing the new album themselves, as they did with their previous effort, Khaos Legions, in 2011.White-Gluz said yesterday "It is not often that you get a phone call from your favorite band asking you to join!" She added "Music is forever, metal is limitless and this is only the beginning!"Archaeologists from the University of Winchester in Hampshire, England have discovered what they believe to be the earliest known hospital in the United Kingdom. Burials at the former leprosy hospital in England's former capital city have been radio carbon dated and are estimated to be from AD 960–1030. Several buildings have been excavated on the site along with the foundations of other structures. Other artifacts were also found on the site.Prior to this discovery the earliest hospitals in the country were believed to date from the Norman Conquest, which took place in AD 1066. A leading researcher on medieval hospitals, Prof Nicholas Orme, said that the only other evidence for hospital activity prior to 1066 was within the context of monasteries or minsters. The earliest known hospital in England before this discovery was at Harbledown in Canterbury, founded in the 1070's.The Winchester dig has been taking place in Hospital Field, the location of the former St. Mary Magdalen Hospital which was believed to have been established in AD 1170.  The site has subsequently been used as a prison for Dutch prisoners in the 17th century and during the First World War as an army base.South African Archbishop Desmond Tutu today called for the cardinals of the Catholic Church to choose an African pope to succeed the recently deceased Pope John Paul II. The Archbishop said, "I hope the cardinals... will follow the first non-Italian pope by electing the first African pope."  (Note: Pope John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope since the 15th century, but not the first non-Italian pope ever, as Tutu has stated.  Additionally, it would not be the first time an African pope has been elected.)Should such an event occur, it is widely believed that Cardinal Francis Arinze of Nigeria would be the most likely candidate. The 72 year old Prefect of the Congregation for Divine Worship is known to be theologically conservative but very knowledgeable about the Islamic religion, an important strength given recent hostilities between Christians and Muslims.  Arinze was one of the five cardinals chosen by the Pope to sit on the Committee of the Great Jubilee in 2000.If Cardinal Arinze becomes the next Pope, he would be the first African Pope in over 1,500 years - the last being Pope Gelasius I who was the Pontiff from 492 to 496.However in Nigeria such predictions have been met with mixed responses. A churchgoer in the state of Enugu told the Reuters news agency, "I doubt if world politics will allow a black man to be pope."Yesterday, amid the celebration of the Argentinian Independence Day, snow and sleet surprised many in the greater area of Buenos Aires and other parts of Argentina. It was the first snowfall there since June 22, 1918. The National Weather Service even doubted to announce the predicted snowfall, because it is a phenomenon that occurs only about every hundred years."It's the first time that sleet falls here since the sixties, and it hasn't snowed since 1918 –I wasn't even born yet," said Diana Morinelli, a resident of the Olivos locality.The snow fell mostly during the night and when the inhabitants of the capital city left their homes in the morning, many began to play with the snow. In 1918, the snowfall inspired composer Agustín Bardi's ¿Qué noche! (What a night!) tango.Argentine daily La Nación reported that at least two homeless persons died because of the unusual cold. In Santa Rosa, La Pampa, the temperature was -10°C, with the perceived temperature as low as -15°C in some cities. Late May, the lowest temperatures in Buenos Aires in 40 years caused 23 deaths due to hypothermia, and an energy crisis.The Argentinian version of Google decorated its main page with an Argentinian flag to celebrate the Independence day.The Argentine national rugby team has defeated the Scottish equivalent 21-15 in a home rugby test match.Chris Patterson scored three penalties in the first half, but an Alvaro Tejeda try on his debut left Argentina's Pumas 10-9 at the end of the first half. Paterson, who won his 87th cap at the match, then put Scotland in front with two more penalties, but Argentina's Gonzalo Todeschini followed up with the same for Argentina to put them back in the lead. The final points were also for Argentina, with London Irish centre Gonzalo Tiesi scoring a try in injury time.The teams will play a second test at Buenos Aires next weekend.A 36-year-old woman stuck herself to a slot machine in a game hall in downtown Lomas del Mirador when she hit the jackpot of 35 million pesos, because the halls chief refused to pay up.The woman placed a bet of 5 centavos. When the slot machine displayed that she had won 35 million pesos(1.72580651 million UK£ or 3.2279485 million US$), the game hall chief didn't pay her that prize, because they claimed the slot machine was malfunctioning.She then held on tightly to the slot machine for as long as it took for TV journalists and a lawyer to arrive at the scene. In the Argentine news broadcasts the machine is seen with the amount of money won on the display. The game hall offered a settlement of 125000 pesos, but she has refused to accept that offer.A huge fire set the Armando museum in Amersfoort, Netherlands in flames around 1:00pm (local time). The museum was having a special exhibition and had borrowed many paintings from other museums and individuals. The museum was being worked on by painters, though there is no evidence that that was the cause.Armando is a Dutch artist currently living in Germany. The collection of his work in the museum is estimated to have been worth roughly €3 million. The collection consisted mostly of paintings and statues.The people living near the museum had been evacuated in case the fire spread beyond the buildings which had already caught fire. They were able to spend the night in the local city hall.Armed robbers stole around 60 valuable statuettes from a museum in Olympia, Greece this morning. A state television channel reported that the Greek culture minister Pavlos Geroulanos tendered his resignation upon hearing of the robbery."We must wait and see what the local archaeology supervisor will say, but the items were of incalculable value," local mayor Thymios Kotzias said. The value of the articles hasn't been calculated yet.The masked robbers initially demanded a female employee to hand over the articles. When she refused, they tied her up and snatched the articles through the glass planes themselves.This is the second major robbery in the country recently. Paintings by Pablo Picasso, Piet Mondrian and others were stolen from Athens National Museum in January. Olympia is the place where the first Olympic Games were held.Chicago, Illinois police arrested William Balfour, the estranged brother-in-law of Oscar-winning American actress and singer Jennifer Hudson, on Monday, multiple media outlets reported. Balfour is expected to be charged with three counts of murder for the slayings of three of Hudson's relatives in October."We have obtained an arrest warrant for William Balfour. He was released to Chicago detectives," Chicago Police Department spokeswoman Monique Bond told Reuters.Hudson's mother, Darnell Donerson, 57, and brother, Jason Hudson, 29 were found dead in Donerson's home on October 24 and the body of Hudson's 7-year-old nephew, Julian King was found four days later in a stolen SUV. A handgun police say is tied to the case was found nearby, but Reuters reports that Bond did not comment on any evidence in the case.The Associated Press reports that police took Balfour into custody on Oct. 24 and held him for 48 before the Illinois Department of Corrections took possession of him on an alleged parole violation. Balfour previously served nearly seven years for a 1999 conviction attempted murder, vehicular hijacking, and possessing a stolen vehicle. CNN reports he was out of jail on parole at the time of the shootings.Balfour's mother, Michelle Davis-Balfour, spoke to the press Monday night, saying she thought that there was no case against her son."If they found gun powder on his hands, you got a case; if they found a gun on him, he had a case; if they found a fingerprint on the truck that he did this, you got a case; but they don't have nothing," Davis-Balfour said, according to the Associated Press. She also said: "My son did not do this. I am sick of this. They need to focus on somebody else."Davis-Balfour also accused at least one witness of lying while providing an alibi for his son, saying he was with one of three girls friends when the killings happened."He was with Diana that night and with Kate in the morning," she said, according to CNN.Attorney for Balfour, Josh Kutnick, told CNN that his client is innocent. "He believes when the evidence comes out, he will be found not guilty," Kutnick told CNN.Hudson became famous in 2004 when she was one of the finalists on the third season of the American hit television show American Idol. She later won multiple awards for her role in the 2006 motion picture Dreamgirls.American actor Richard Gere, 51, kissed Indian actress Shilpa Shetty, 31, on the cheek several times during an AIDS awareness event in Delhi, India.  A court has issued an arrest warrant for both Gere and Shetty for public obscenity.Gere, who starred in an American remake of the original Japanese version Shall We Dance, was doing a ballroom dancing act with Shetty."He especially told me to tell the media that he didn't want to hurt any Indian sensibilities," Shetty said.The act came to issue when a local lawyer complained to a court in Jaipur, Rajasthan. It is being called "an obscene act" by the court in Jaipur, Rajasthan. In India, showing affection in public is frowned upon. People in India protested against the act saying it went against their culture.Gere appeared in an interview with Jon Stewart on The Daily Show last night. "Me kissing the girl on the cheek was nothing," he said. "To be honest, this recent media storm has taken me by complete surprise. End the circus around this episode."They are scheduled to appear in court on May 5. If convicted, Gere could be fined or sent to jail for three months.Yesterday, Thames Valley Police said they had arrested a second man in connection with the theft of a gold toilet. The toilet, an artwork, was stolen on Saturday from Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire, England. Another man, who was was arrested on the day of the theft, was released on bail. The toilet has not been recovered.Police arrested a 36-year-old Cheltenham man on suspicion of conspiracy to burgle. They subsequently released him pending investigation. On Saturday they arrested a 66-year-old man on suspicion of burglary, and released him on bail till October. "We are continuing to investigate this incident and have made a second arrest in connection with it. Our priority is to locate the stolen item, and I would urge anyone with any information to contact police by calling 101", said Detective Inspector Steven Jones.The toilet is an artwork entitled America made by Italian artist Maurizio Cattelan. It is a fully functioning toilet made from 18-karat gold. Dominic Hare, chief executive of the palace, placed the value of the artwork in the range of five to six million US dollars. It had been fully plumbed and installed for visitors to use at Blenheim. When it was removed by the burglars it caused flooding and water damage to the building. Police said on Monday they believe the theft involved a group of thieves and multiple vehicles."At first, when they woke me up this morning with the news, I thought it was a prank: Who's so stupid to steal a toilet?" wrote Cattelan, the artist, in an e-mail to The New York Times. "I had forgotten for a second that it was made out of gold."Back in 2017, the artwork was offered to Donald Trump, the president of the United States. Dominic Hare said the toilet represented a "comment on the American dream".Art Linkletter, creator of the television show Kids Say the Darndest Things, died peacefully in his Los Angeles, California home Wednesday.Linkletter was best known for his television broadcasting hits, Kids Say the Darndest Things, People Are Funny, The Art Linkletter Show, and House Party.  Linkletter was also a famed author, compiling the quotes from Kids Say the Darndest Things into a best-selling book of the same name.  Bill Cosby says that "because of Art Linkletter, adults found themselves enjoying children."  A few of Linksletter's other books are I Didn't Do It Alone, Old Age is Not for Sissies, How To Be a Supersalesman, Confessions of a Happy Man, and Hobo on the Way to Heaven.The Grammy-winning song We Love You, Call Collect was recorded jointly by Linkletter and his daughter Diane, who had later died from a fall from a sixth floor Hollywood apartment.As the owner of Linkletter Enterprises, Linkletter owned real estate in Australia and invested in oil wells.Linkletter, originally known as Gordon Arthur Kelly, was born in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan before being adopted by the Linkletter family.  Linkletter was predeceased by his daughter and two sons, and is survived by his wife, two other daughters, seven grandchildren, and numerous great grandchildren.Arthur Miller, the revered American playwright, has died aged 89 in Roxbury, Connecticut.  The creator of Death of a Salesman and The Crucible had been suffering from cancer and pneumonia.Miller's most famous play, Death of a Salesman, was first performed in 1949.  Willy Loman, the central protagonist, became a symbol of the difficulties and frailties of the 'American Dream'.Arthur Miller became embroiled in 1956 with the Communist hysteria which engulfed the United States as the Cold War began to take shape.  When he refused to name friends and colleagues to the House Committee on Un-American Activities, he was held in contempt.  The decision was later overturned, however Miller's experiences led him to write The Crucible, a thinly veiled critique of the McCarthyist witch-hunts.Fans of Miller and his works worldwide paid tribute today to the Pulitzer-prize winning playwright.  Zoe Caldwell, American actress who had appeared in Miller's "The Creation of the World and Other Business", told AP that Miller "was a big man and a deeply American man who was lucky enough to have extraordinary women in his life."  Miller's fame was precipitated by his stormy relationship and subsequent marriage to Marilyn Monroe, which lasted five years."Mr Miller passed away at his home in Roxbury, Connecticut, last night at 9.17pm of heart failure," his assistant revealed.  Mr Miller leaves behind three children: Jane-Ellen, Robert and Rebecca Miller.On Monday, the person responsible for changing the Hollywood sign in California to read "Hollyweed" as a new year's prank turned himself in to local authorities. 30-year-old artist Zachary Cole Fernandez surrendered himself, the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) said.According to LAPD, Fernandez went to the police station accompanied by his lawyer, where he confessed to have changed the sign and was bailed out shortly thereafter for US$1000. LAPD charged Fernandez with trespassing; earlier reports indicated vandalism charges were ruled out as he used black and white tarps to alter the letter "O" to read lowercase "e". The sign was not physically damaged. A court hearing is scheduled for February 15. Fernandez said this act was an art project, and claimed he faces up to six months in prison if convicted. It took Fernandez two hours to alter the sign. Regarding conviction, he said, "I'm a person of integrity. If I do something wrong, I will own up to it."Exactly 41 years ago, on the same date in 1976, then-university student Daniel Finegood modified the sign to read "Hollyweed" for an art class assignment. Finegood returned to change the sign again in 1990, spelling out "Oil War" to protest against the First Persian Gulf War. Fernandez, on Tuesday, said his act was to "bring light and positivity and happiness". He said he was inspired by Finegood's modification to the sign.City Councilman David Ryu said in a statement. "Pranks of this nature deplete the resources of our valuable public safety personnel".The term "weed" is an English slang term for cannabis, a banned drug in many countries. On November 9, a ballot for legalising recreational use of cannabis in California for the age group of 21 and above was passed. The law legalising recreational cannabis is due to come into effect in 2018.Most of the Eurovision entrants have returned home from their sojourn in Moscow, Russia, and the newspapers across Europe have varied opinions. Most national newspapers congratulated their entrants on a job well done, while others trash-talked other entrants, and still others called for their countries to pull out of the Contest. Here are some interviews, articles and opinions that made it to the front pages of newspapers and to their sanctioned blogs.Controversy has arisen over the reported presence of blue asbestos on the MV Freewinds, a cruise ship owned by the Church of Scientology. According to the Saint Martin newspaper The Daily Herald and the shipping news journal Lloyd's List, the Freewinds was sealed in April and local public health officials on the Caribbean island of Curaçao where the ship is docked began an investigation into the presence of asbestos dust on the ship. Former Scientologist Lawrence Woodcraft supervised work on the ship in 1987, and attested to the presence of blue asbestos on the Freewinds in an affidavit posted to the Internet in 2001. Woodcraft, a licensed architect by profession, gave a statement to Wikinews and commented on the recent events.According to The Daily Herald, the Freewinds was in the process of being renovated by the Curaçao Drydock Company. The article states that samples taken from paneling in the ship were sent to the Netherlands, where an analysis revealed that they "contained significant levels of blue asbestos". An employee of the Curaçao Drydock Company told Radar Online in an April 30 article that the Freewinds has been docked and sealed, and confirmed that an article about asbestos ran in the local paper. Lloyd's List reported that work on the interior of the Freewinds was suspended on April 27 after health inspectors found traces of blue asbestos on the ship. According to Lloyd's List, Frank Esser, Curaçao Drydock Company's interim director, joined Curaçao's head of the department of labor affairs Christiene van der Biezen along with the head of the local health department Tico Ras and two inspectors in an April 25 inspection of the ship. "We are sending someone so that they can tell us what happened, where it came from, since when it has been there," said Panama Maritime Authority's director of merchant marine Alfonso Castillero in a statement to Lloyd's List.The Church of Scientology purchased the ship, then known as the Bohème, in 1987, through an organization called Flag Ship Trust. After being renovated and refitted, it was put into service in June 1988. The ship is used by the Church of Scientology for advanced Scientology training in "Operating Thetan" levels, as well as for spiritual retreats for its members. Curaçao has been the ship's homeport since it was purchased by the Church of Scientology. According to his 2001 statement, Lawrence Woodcraft had been an architect in London, England since 1975, and joined Scientology's elite "Sea Organization" (Sea Org) in 1986. He wrote that he was asked by the Sea Org to work on the Freewinds in 1987, and during his work on the ship "noticed a powdery blue fibrous substance approximately 1 ½" thick between the paint and the steel wall," which he believed to be asbestos. He also discovered what he thought was blue asbestos in other parts of the ship, and reported his findings to Church of Scientology executives. Woodcraft discussed his experiences in a 2001 interview published online by the Lisa McPherson Trust, a now-defunct organization which was critical of the Church of Scientology.Church of Scientology spokeswoman Karin Pouw responded to Radar Online about the asbestos reports, in an email published in an article in Radar on May 1. "The Freewinds regularly inspects the air quality on board and always meets or exceeds US standards," said Pouw. She stated that two inspections performed in April "confirmed that the air quality is safe," and asserted that the inspections revealed the Freewinds satisfies standards set by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the U.S. Clean Air Act. Pouw told Radar that "The Freewinds will be completing its refit on schedule." The Church of Scientology-affiliated organization Citizens Commission on Human Rights (CCHR) had been planning a cruise aboard the Freewinds scheduled for May 8, but according to Radar an individual who called the booking number for the cruise received a message that the cruise had been delayed due to ongoing work on the ship. Citing an article in the Netherlands Antilles newspaper Amigoe, Radar reported on May 6 that a team from the United States and supervised by an independent bureau from the Netherlands traveled to Curaçao in order to remove asbestos from the Freewinds. "I stand by everything I wrote in my 2001 affidavit," said Lawrence Woodcraft in an exclusive statement given to Wikinews. Woodcraft went on to state: "I would also comment that if the Church of Scientology claims to have removed the blue asbestos, I just don't see how, it's everywhere. You would first have to remove all the pipes, plumbing, a/c ducts, electrical wiring etc. etc. just a maze of stuff. Also panelling as well, basically strip the ship back to a steel hull. Also blue asbestos is sprayed onto the outer walls and then covered in paint. It's in every nook and cranny."Many Scientologist celebrities have spent time aboard the Freewinds, including Tom Cruise, Katie Holmes, John Travolta, Kelly Preston, Chick Corea, Lisa Marie Presley, Catherine Bell, Kate Ceberano, and Juliette Lewis. Now magazine reported that Tom Cruise has been urged to seek medical attention regarding potential asbestos exposure, however a representative for Cruise stated he has "absolutely no knowledge" of the recent asbestos controversy. Cruise, Holmes, Travolta and Preston have celebrated birthdays and other events on the Freewinds.In a May 15 statement to the United Kingdom daily newspaper Metro, a representative for the Church of Scientology said that "There is not now and never has been a situation of asbestos exposure on the Freewinds." The Asbestos and Mesothelioma Center notes that agencies have recommended anyone who has spent time on the Freewinds consult with their physician to determine if possible asbestos exposure may have affected their health.Raw blue asbestos is the most hazardous form of asbestos, and has been banned in the United Kingdom since 1970. Blue asbestos fibers are very narrow and thus easily inhaled, and are a major cause of mesothelioma. Mesothelioma is a form of cancer which can develop in the lining of the lungs and chest cavity, the lining of the abdominal cavity, or the pericardium sac surrounding the heart. The cancer is incurable, and can manifest over 40 years after the initial exposure to asbestos. "This is the most dangerous type of asbestos because the fibres are smaller than the white asbestos and can penetrate the lung more easily," said toxicologist Dr. Chris Coggins in a statement published in OK! Magazine. Dr. Coggins went on to note that "Once diagnosed with mesothelioma, the victim has six months to a year to live. It gradually reduces lung function until the victim is no longer able to breathe and dies."The formation of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) Basketball League this week almost certainly ensures that a professional basketball league will be run across southern Asia. In planning for almost two years a US$5 million backing from  Malaysian business tycoons Tony Fernandes of AirAsia and Indonesian media mogul Erick Thoir should see the league commence in September this year. The goal is to boost the mainstream popularity of basketball which, according to organizers of the new league, is already the second most popular team sport behind football.Fernandes believes using overseas professional players will help increase the competitiveness and skills of the local ASEAN players. Fernandes said, "The aim is to develop local talent. Foreign players from outside ASEAN will be role models. Maybe one day our players will play in the NBA."Singapore's The Straits Times quoted secretary general of the International Basketball Federation (FIBA), Patrick Baumann, as saying "Asia was ready for a professional league but warned organizers will have to ensure it doesn't fade away after a few years. The time is right but it is not going to be simple to sustain the league". He further added that "there has to be good entertainment. The clubs need to be managed professionally and well funded. You cannot have the league for one or two years and then stop."Addressing concerns over the current financial crisis and its possible impact on the launch of the league Fernandes said, "Yes, there will be a lot of obstacles and road blocks. But no mountain will stop us. During an economic downturn like now, this new league will create jobs."The composition of the league is still under discussion however it is expected that at least eight teams will part of the series this year. Each nation will be permitted a maximum of two privately owned teams. Other details including prize money, sponsorship and number of games is still in planning. The league will be organised by the South-east Asian Basketball Association which governs basketball across the region.Singapore Slingers are expected to be one of the first confirmed teams in the new competition. Bob Turner, CEO of the Slingers, said "We are definitely very interested. We believe that this will take the sport to the next level and we hope to confirm our entry as soon as possible."The league is tentatively scheduled to start in September 2009 and continue until February 2010. It will initially consist of eight teams that will play on a home-and-away basis. The champion will be the last team standing after a knock-out playoff round.The Associated Press (AP) news agency has come under fire from the blogging community after issuing a number of DMCA (Digital Millennium Copyright Act) takedown notices against bloggers who have used extracts from AP articles.Quoting from correspondence surrounding the takedown notices, a Drudge Retort contributor claims in his personal blog that not only is AP asserting that the quotes are a copyright violation, but that they also constitute '"hot news" misappropriation.Wikinews contacted several people in an effort to get to the bottom of this issue. Rogers Cadenhead, one of the copublishers of the Drudge Report blog, brought Wikinews up to speed on the DMCA notices. The takedown notices were received by email on June 10, he said. This, in and of itself, constitutes an improper filing. The letter of the law requires that a DMCA notice be sent to the appropriate party by recorded postal delivery.Cadenhead remains unaware of any other bloggers who have been similarly notified, and says receiving seven takedown notices left him "dumbfounded". Previous Drudge Retort interaction with AP's legal team had seen AP complain about people posting entire reports in the comments section of the site. These were quickly removed and users warned that this was inappropriate and indisputably a copyright violation, says Cadenhead.Cadenhead goes on to discuss how blogs, and other social networking sites, are of benefit to mainstream media such as AP. He describes how the posting of excerpts and quotes helps drive visitors to the sites where the full article text can be found, "MSNBC publishes its news videos with an "embed" button that makes it possible to share them on blogs. If NBC sees the value of that, print-based media should recognize the benefits of encouraging the link-and-excerpt culture of bloggers. I heard on NPR yesterday that 20 percent of the New York Times web traffic is referred by blogs."There may be a longer-term strategy behind these actions from the Associated Press. A report on ChannelWeb indicates that AP wants to charge for excerpts of their online content. The pricing schedule reported on this site starts at US$12.50 for quoting five to twenty-five words and goes up to US$100.00 for over 251 words. This, a challenge to the very existence of fair use, is to be managed by the company iCopyright operating as a copyright protection service. Cory Doctorow goes into this in some depth on the Boing Boing site, commenting that those who inform on violators may receive up to one million dollar rewards. In addition, the "no disparagement" clause is highlighted, whereby AP reserves the right to revoke the license where they are unhappy with the usage."Welcome to a world in which you won’t be able to effectively criticize the press, because you’ll be required to pay to quote as few as five words from what they publish," Doctorow wrote.The controversy provoked by these moves from AP, apparently, prompted them to schedule a meeting with the Media Bloggers Association to hammer out a set of guidelines.The Associated Press case seems to rely on the 1918 U.S. Supreme Court case, International News Service v. Associated Press where, following INS being prevented from using allied telegraph lines following unfavourable reporting, they used AP reports as a source to rewrite in their own words. With one vigorously dissenting justice, the case was closed in AP's favour, with the INS usage described as "misappropriation". Today sees a similar battle played out where bloggers and other citizen journalists simply do not have the resources to place their own reporters at the scene and must excerpt or rewrite from sources such as AP.According to Michael Kwun, a senior staff attorney with the EFF, one of their blog entries describes the action as biting the hand that feeds them. Kwun questioned whether the 1918 ruling could still be considered "good law", that changes in Federal law likely rendered it inapplicable, and that there was only a small chance that at state level this could still be applied.Despite several attempts to get input from the Associated Press, they had not responded to Wikinews at time of publication. Attempts to contact Reuters and the BBC for input also went unanswered.On June 20, Cadenhead released a statement saying that after receiving additional information from AP, he is "glad" the dispute is over. AP said it had a "constructive exchange" with a "number of interested parties in the blogging community" and will seek to continue dialogue."I think it would be helpful for bloggers and users of social news sites to know what the AP believes to be fair use of their copyrighted work," said Wade Duchene, attorney for Cadenhead. "I hope that any guidelines that are issued are not interpreted as an agreed definition of fair use."Australia's oldest video game development studio is working on a PlayStation®2 port of Eden Games' Test Drive: Unlimited, the latest in the Test Drive series.Atari Melbourne House has been at the centre of recent speculation after head of studio Andrew Carter took charge earlier this year, and details about their current project have been limited.A source inside the studio has confirmed that the title in development is a PS2 port of Eden's next-generation Xbox 360 game.Although Melbourne House established a strong reputation for driving games with the acclaimed Test Drive: Le Mans (Sega Dreamcast), recent ventures away from the genre such as Men In Black II: Alien Escape and Transformers: Armada (targeted at the high end of the market) have failed to make an impact.However, speculation about the studio's long term future took another turn this week when Atari CEO James Caparro resigned. Although the ambitious natural disaster themed The Big One was cancelled when former CEO Bruno Bonnell took a back seat in November last year, the project - known inside the studio as Bonnell's "pet" - might be revived now Bonnell has been appointed interim CEO in the wake of Caparro's resignation."Who knows, it might be [The Big One], it might be another port," the source said.Two senior game designers have resigned from the studio in the past month.The Atlantic Lottery Corporation says it will team up with all four Atlantic Canada provinces for an investigation into Atlantic Canada's lottery system. The corporation will pay a total of $300,000 for the investigation.Nova Scotia is the first Atlantic province to fully investigate lottery sales. After several concerns, New Brunswick ombudsman, Bernard Richard, monitored their lottery for some time but no investigation was carried."People have to have confidence that our systems are fair, secure," said Marie Mullally, president of the Atlantic Lottery Corporation in Nova Scotia. "It references a number of aspects of ALC business, it talks about all aspects of our operations, and to date, most of our focus has been on issues arising from retailer wins."The investigation is expected to be started late June.Recently, the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation was under investigation under allegations that lottery retailers stole prizes from consumers.A customer could go into a variety store and ask the retailer to check their tickets for them. If a retailer saw a winning ticket they could tell the customer they didn't win and keep the prize to themselves. It was proven after Ontario man Robert 'Bob' Edmonds sued the corporation in 2001 for refusing to return his winnings, after a store woman clerk claimed that he did not win. Days after, the clerk and her husband claimed Edmonds' jackpot of $250,000.An attack on a mosque has killed at least 32 people, near Pakistan's military headquarters in the city of Rawalpindi. There have been conflicting accounts of the attack, but police reported gunfire and at least one explosion at the mosque soon after prayers on Friday morning. It is thought that one or more suicide bombers may have been involved.The attack took place at the Parade Lane mosque, in a part of the city containing several defence department buildings. Security workers cordoned off the scene while ambulances rushed to take victims to the hospital. "There was certainly more than one attacker, so there is a possibility that some of them may still be hiding in the vicinity," said Athar Abbas, a spokesman for the military.It is the latest in a series of attacks that have rocked Pakistan since the government launched an offensive against al-Qaeda and the Taliban in the northwest region bordering Afghanistan. On Thursday, a bomb blast at a police checkpoint wounded at least two policemen in the northwestern city of Peshawar.On Wednesday, a suicide bomber killed two guards and wounded eleven other people at naval headquarters in Pakistan's capital Islamabad. The same day, the military said troops killed fifteen suspected miltants, including a top militant commander, in the Swat Valley, the site of a major offensive earlier this year.Attorney Jack Thompson, fresh from the "Hot Coffee" controversy, has set his sights on the Electronic Arts (EA) video game The Sims 2 for a mod that removed the blur on nude character models in the game.Thompson was quoted as saying "Sims 2, the latest version of the Sims video game franchise ... contains, according to video game news sites, full frontal nudity, including nipples, penises, labia, and pubic hair." Factually, the characters resemble that of a child's dolls. Thompson also accused EA of being in collaboration with the mod makers.In Electronic Arts' defense, EA spokesman Jeff Brown said, “Reasonable people understand there is nothing improper in the game. Reasonable people recognise what mods are. A consumer who chooses to use a mod does so without any kind of agreement with the company. There is no nudity. There is nothing improper or vulgar in the Sims 2.” A mod is third-party add-on to a game. Mods range from minor and subtle changes to the game, to full-fledged "total conversions" which merely use the original game engine to create a very different game.A Russian trapeze artist, Vitaly Kharapavitski, 26, performing at a circus in Scariff, Ireland has died after a cage attached to a hot air balloon crushed the performer. His wife, Sasha, 24, who was also performing at the time, was injured, breaking her arm. Both were dressed in clown suits.At least 100 people were attending the circus and watched the acrobat fall. Most of the attendees were children.According to witnesses, the balloon caught fire and the cage fell on top of the acrobat, crushing his head.Spectators of the circus were asked to leave the area while the incident was being investigated. Tony Kenneally, a Garda Superintendent said that the incident is being treated as an accident."We had to discharge the audience because we knew it was quite serious," said spokespeople for the Royal Russian Circus.Some of the attendees thought the fall was part of the performance.I had an unofficial phone call from Gay Talese last Tuesday.  He had just flown back from Colombia and he was cranky.  "I'm happy to do an interview with you," he said, "but what the hell could you ask me that's not already out there?  Have you even bothered to look?!”   "Jeez, Mr. Talese, lots of things," was my response.  I lied.  The truth is that when I call people to interview them, I do not have a set of preconceived questions.  My agenda is to talk to them and gain a sense of who they are; to flesh them out as humans.  To find out what they think about the world around them at that moment.  With Gay Talese I had little interest in talking about Frank Sinatra Has a Cold and with Augusten Burroughs I had little interest in discussing Running with Scissors.  I want to know what they think about things outside of the boxes people have placed them in.With a memoirist like Burroughs, even this is a challenge.  What parts of his life he has not written about himself, other interviewers have strip-mined.  When we met for dinner at Lavagna in the East Village, I explained to Augusten this issue.  I suggested we make the interview more of a conversation to see if that would be more interesting.  "Instead of you in the catbird seat," I said, "let's just talk."  We struck an instant rapport.  What set out to be an hour and half interview over dinner had turned into four hours of discussion about our lives similarly lived. I removed half of the interview: the half that focused on me.Below is Wikinews reporter David Shankbone’s conversation with writer Augusten Burroughs.Despite pleas from Big Day Out promoters to leave the national flag of Australia at home, many of the 55,000 music lovers have turned up to the Sydney event covered in it. Co-promoter Ken West caused a stir when the flag was "banned" from this year's Big Day Out in Sydney after organisers branded it a "gang colour" and symbol of hate. Organizers of the rock festival had planned to confiscate any flag or bandanna bearing the national symbol at the gate. The organizers defended their action claiming Sydney was "a hot bed of racism." They had already moved the event from the traditional time, Australia Day, to avoid these "nationalistic overtones." The Prime Minister John Howard responded by declaring that the Big Day Out should have been cancelled unless organisers reversed their decision to ban the flag. After widespread outrage on talkback radio, and condemnation of their action by the Prime Minister and state Premiers, Australians have literally worn their hearts on their sleeves by draping the Aussie flag over their shoulders or wearing t-shirts, tattoos or bikinis with it printed on it. Event organisers allowed hundreds of fans to bring Australian flags to the event, backing down on their earlier call to leave the emblem at home. Melissa-Rose Heap, 18-years-old, of Kogarah, said she and her friends had fashioned the Australian flag into dresses after the banning controversy."We made them into dresses because they said we weren't allowed to, and that's not right," she said. "They shouldn't be able to tell anyone that we can't be proud of Australia."All around Australia, ordinary people have celebrated Australia Day. Australia Day, on January 26 each year, is commemorated as Invasion Day by many indigenous Australians.  In 2009, it coincided with Lunar New Year, celebrated by many Asian cultures.Australia won the men's field hockey World Cup for the first time in 24 years, defeating Germany 2-1. Luke Doerner scored the winning penalty only eleven minutes before the match ended. Edward Ockenden of Australia had earlier scored in the sixth minute and Moritz Furste of Germany drew level in the 46th minute.Germany, the two-time defending champions, had beaten Australia in the final of both the previous Hockey World Cups by one goal. The Germans would have become the first team to win the World Cup three times in a row had they been victorious.Ric Charlesworth, the Australian coach, who was one of the members of the 1986 victorious team, said, "We're delighted at winning the World Cup. We knew Germany will be a tough opponent. We played a very good game and showed a lot of control and authority. An early goal was also very helpful."Charlesworth, who watched the match not from the bench but among other spectators, clarified that "[t]here are no superstitions involved." "I get too noisy and excited on the bench, so I always change it with other people," he said.He added, "I am very, very pleased. We played a good game with a lot of control and authority. Scoring that early goal was very helpful. I am pleased to win both as player and captain. In 1986, the scoreline was the same, but the opponents (England) were different." According to him, the next goal is to win the upcoming London Olympics.Max Muller, captain of Germany, said the penalty corner turned out to be decisive. "Australia scored the second goal from a penalty corner, and we had a corner at 2-1 but could not score," said he.He also said that the team was "a young side." "Losing the final is a big disappointment at the moment, but tomorrow morning we may feel proud to have reached this far," he said.Following the days since Steve Irwin died of a stingray attack, at least 10 stingrays have been found dead on two Australian beaches, with their tails cut off. While it was reported that fishermen occasionally cut the tails off stingrays they accidentally catch to avoid being stung, however, state fishery official Wayne Sumpton said that this practice was "uncommon".It is suspected that these killings were done in revenge for Irwin. "That's the last thing Steve would want," said Michael Hornby, a friend of Irwin. However, other sources point out that fans of Irwin would generally not commit such actions.In general, stingrays are not aggressive and will not attack unless provoked.Meanwhile, a public memorial service for Irwin is planned next week.Australian Broadcasting Company (ABC) television head, Sandra Levy, has quit to become the director of development for "Channel Nine." Her new role is expected to focus on drama.ABC managing director Russell Balding said that Ms Levy had lifted audiences to "historically unprecedented" levels. However, Ms Levy came under fire during her ABC tenure for an overly conservative programming approach to major news stories - notably a sluggish response to coverage of the December 2004 South Asian Tsunami. She was criticised for refusing to interrupt regular programming to go to breaking news reports. The Channel Nine network, that she now joins, is in a rebuilding phase after coming under heavy ratings pressure in the past 12 months. Long the dominant commercial network in Australia, in 2005 it has seen numerous changes in its executive ranks, including the sudden resignation of CEO David Gyngell. Channel Nine's interim CEO, television veteran Sam Chisholm, has launched cost-cutting at the network.South Australia's Department of Environment and Heritage has announced that the Simpson Desert in Central Australia will close annually from December 15 through to March 1. The department says a risk assessment showed temperatures of 40 to 50ºC (104 to 122ºF) were dangerous for people crossing the desert.The closure will affect the Simpson Desert Conservation Park and Simpson Desert Regional Reserve, an area of approximately 3.6 million hectares (8.9 million acres).Trevor Naismith, regional operations director of the department, said the closure was necessary to prevent deaths and ensure the health and safety of visitors and emergency staff. “Closing the desert is really a common sense thing to prevent deaths of unsuspecting visitors,” Mr Naismith said."We’re very keen to encourage safe and responsible use of the desert; however we do have a duty of care.""It’s just such a vast and inhospitable place during summer, there are no trees and there is no shade and it’s so hot, it really is one of the most inhospitable places in Australia if not in the world." "There's been a number of near misses and we have had deaths in past years in the northern parts of South Australia in relation to overseas tourists who are not experienced and are ill-prepared for the conditions."The department says that high temperatures can have a severe effect on the body, with heat exhaustion leading to loss of proper body function and ultimately death. High temperatures can also cause vehicles to overheat, vaporise fuel, blow tires and for batteries to fail.Local tourism outlets and visitor information centres have been advised of the closure and new information signs will be installed at all entrances to the park.It is not believed that the closure will have a large effect on local tourism businesses as only around 25 vehicles cross the desert through summer.People caught by park rangers crossing the desert will face fines of up to A$1,000.According to police in New York City, New York, Australian actor Heath Ledger, 28, has died from a suspected overdose of prescription drugs. He was found by his housekeeper in his Manhattan apartment.At about 3:26 p.m. EST (UTC-5), the housekeeper was on her way to inform Ledger that his masseuse had arrived when she discovered his naked body on the bed."We are investigating the possibility of an overdose," said a police spokesman. The CourierMail quotes NBC as saying that Ledger's body was found "surrounded by pills."Ledger starred in the 2005 movie Brokeback Mountain where he was nominated for the Academy Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor. He also starred in the 2000 movie The Patriot with Mel Gibson.Ledger is survived by his two-year-old daughter Matilda Rose, by ex-girlfriend Michelle Williams.The Rosley Oxley9 Gallery in Sydney, Australia was raided by police over the weekend following complaints of child pornography. The complaints related to an exhibition of works by photographer Bill Henson, which included several photographs of naked pubescent children. Twenty-one of the forty photographs in the exhibition were seized during the raid, and police have announced that charges will be laid under the NSW Commonwealth and Crimes Act for "publishing an indecent article". Digital versions have also been removed from the Gallery's website.Politicians on both sides of the fence spoke out against the exhibition. Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, speaking to the Nine Network, said he found the photos to be "absolutely revolting [...] Whatever the artistic view of the merits of that sort of stuff - frankly I don't think there are any - just allow kids to be kids." His Opposition counterpart, Brendan Nelson, believes that the exhibition "violates the things for which we stand as Australians and indeed as parents".Art experts have supported Henson and defended his work, denying claims of child pornography and exploitation. According to Betty Churcher, a former director of the National Gallery of Australia, "[t]here is absolutely no suggestion of pornography in these photographs". Sydney art dealer Denis Savill hung one of Henson's works, featuring two nudes, in his gallery window beside an Arthur Boyd nude, to "give them something to grizzle about".According to Tony Oxley, husband of gallery owner Roslyn, the gallery's answering machine has recorded several threats to burn the building down. The police action also calls into question the fate of similar works by Henson in other galleries in Australia and around the world.Pro Hart, the self-taught, internationally-acclaimed Australian artist, died at home in Broken Hill on March 28 after family members decided to cease his medication. The 77-year-old had been ill with motor neurone disease. Family members described his passing as peaceful. Hart is a household name in Australia.Hart's son, John Hart, says a State funeral is being organised for his father. He says his father lost the ability to paint about six months ago. Pro Hart's son David today said the funeral for the "brushman of the bush" will be held in the far-western New South Wales mining city of Broken Hill next Tuesday. "It will be held next Tuesday", he said, "probably in the town's civic centre."Born Kevin Charles Hart in Broken Hill on May 30, 1928, his mining mates nicknamed him 'Professor' due to his passion for invention. He started painting "cheeky" pictures on the wooden beams of the mines he worked in. Hart went to few art classes and started painting full-time in 1958.Since then, he has exhibited all over the world, including London, New York, Paris and Tokyo. He also illustrated several books. Hart's preoccupation with art began as a teenager on his family's sheep station near Menindee. His work hangs in collections all over the world. Agent Amanda Phillips says Hart was one of Australia's most renowned artists yet his paintings are not in the National Gallery of Australia. "He's a great Australian, I mean he's been given an MBE for his services to art, he's been honoured all around the world, his work hangs in major collections around the world, why isn't he displayed here in Australia? A spokeswoman for the National Gallery confirmed they had a "very limited collection" of Pro Hart's works although no paintings.Two contestants from Big Brother in Australia have been escorted from the show. Ashley, a pseudonym for Michael Cox of Perth, and John, a pseudonym for Michael Bric of Melbourne, sexually assaulted  a contestant known as Camilla. Camilla climbed into John's bed after stating that she wished one of the boys "would put your arrow near me" at around 4.30am. John was then seen to have held her firm as a half-naked Ashley rubbed his penis on her face in an act know as "turkey slapping". Immediately after the incident Camilla grabbed John's penis and laughed as he jumped.Its unlikely that charges will be laid over the incident. The Age newspaper reported that "Camilla" last night talked about the incident, saying she believed the men were joking. The only people alleging that this was sexual harassment are politicians and journalists.“We had a great time in the house and it is unfortunate it had to end this way, but BB has rules and regulations and we broke them,” they said in a joint statement. “We are all very close in the house and we would never do anything to offend our fellow housemates.”This is the first time contestants have been removed from the show for breaching rules.They will not receive further endorsement or prizes from the show."I can't comment [on the sexual allegations]," said David Brown, from Southern Star Endemol, "But their removal from the house should indicate how serious the matter is."The discussion forum of official Big Brother site has been shut down due to the incident. There is no notice on when the forum will be reopened.There are now eight contestants competing for the remaining $275 thousand. It has been reduced after fines for not wearing microphones when talking, discussing nominations and singing commercial music.Several weeks ago the show's adults-only series, Big Brother: Adults Only, was axed. Last year the show was under scrutiny when a male contestant rubbed himself on a female contestant during a massage.Australian Prime Minister John Howard called for the show to be pulled saying "Here is a great opportunity for a bit of self-regulation and get this stupid programme off the air" adding "It is just a question of good taste".Australian media analysis program Media Watch has accused popular national "current affairs" style program Today Tonight of deliberately quoting a Muslim youth out of context, with the intention of presenting a negative stereotype of the Muslim community. The allegations were aired during Monday night's episode.According to Mediawatch, Abdul Elayoubi of the Lebanese Muslim Association was approached by Tim Noonan, a freelance film producer wanting to produce a short documentary to air on the Seven Network. Mr Elayoubi was cautious because of a prior misrepresentation, however was assured that the program would "show Australians from non-Islamic backgrounds the viewpoint of young Muslims and the pressure they face in an often hostile society", according to a letter from Peter Meakin, the Seven Network's head of news and current affairs.  Elayoubi said "Tim told us he’d be doing the editing himself and would give it to Channel 7 completed," and was assured that quotes would not be taken out of context to further vilify Australian Muslims.Three Muslim youths, Khaled, Ahmed and Samir, agreed to participate in the documentary.  Despite prior reassurances, Tim Noonan did not produce a completed documentary.  The film was subsequently narrated by David Richardson, who had not met the boys and who got Samir's name wrong throughout the piece.The quote "we will never integrate, the way other communities integrate purely because of the fact that you have to draw a line with what your idea of integration is and what our idea of integration and accepting the practices of other people are," was reduced to "we will never integrate" during editing.  Ahmed stated that the full quote itself was made to camera after a discussion including talk of how the Islamic rule prohibiting consumption of alcohol was a barrier to full social integration.The interviewer, Tim Noonan, dismissed the claims in a statement to Media Watch, saying "I believe the edit was an accurate representation of what they told me and I absolutely deny that anything was taken out of context."The aired quote was picked up by other media bodies, most noticeably Sydney talk radio 2UE, where it was allegedly used to incite religious and racial intolerance.  The quote was then further publicised by Today Tonight in a follow-up piece the next evening.On Thursday, the Australian Federal Court ordered Internet service providers to block websites which infringe copyright. The court required five websites be blocked — Pirate Bay, Torrentz, isoHunt, Torrenthound, and SolarMovie.In the first case of site blocking under new Australian legislation, the court asked the companies to block access to these websites within fifteen business days. The ISPs are free to choose the method of blocking; options include DNS blocking, blocking IP addresses and URL blocking.The court has asked the copyright holders to pay up to A$50 to the ISPs for each domain to be blocked. After successful blocking of these websites they are to be replaced by a landing page showing an "access denied" message as well as a notice the website "infringes or facilitates the infringement of copyright."Peter Tonagh, the chief executive of copyright holders Foxtel said, "This judgment is a major step in both directly combating piracy and educating the public that accessing content through these sites is not OK, in fact it is theft".Graham Bruke, co-executive of the other copyright holder in the case, Village Roadshow, in October called people who pirate the copyrighted material "leeches and thieves" and compared them to heroin sellers. Foxtel and Village Roadshow plan to block over 50 websites.The operators of SolarMovie and the torrent websites did not attend the court hearing.Various Linux distributions like Debian, Ubuntu and OpenSUSE allow users to download the freely licensed operating system through torrents.Australian Green leader Bob Brown has criticized the country's media standards and ethics, calling for an enquiry regarding opinion in news. His criticism follows Transport and Infrastructure Minister Anthony Albanese claiming there is a problematic blurring of news and opinion in stories. Albanese said recent newspaper reports have been a "real concern"; commenting, "[t]hey've got to call it for what it is, and they've got to stop this sort of nonsense that is being put out there as legitimate media". Wednesday saw Albanese tell reporters in Sydney that it is time for the press to act responsibly.Senator Brown is calling for a media enquiry at the next parliamentary meeting; "[o]nce upon a time you expected that there would be opinion in editorial columns and there would be news in news columns, but that's gone out the window." Continuing his calls for an enquiry, he stated, "and they're very serious questions for the media itself to ask and I think many journalists want to see, and many people involved in news want to see a review and have a say and that's the job of parliament. That's why I've put the motion in to the Senate"'Senator Brown has labelled national newspaper The Australian, a "viewspaper", claiming it  mixes news with editorial opinion, "[i]t's very difficult for readers these days to be able to read news as news, as fact, as what's happening".Meanwhile, Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC) managing director Mark Scott said there has been debate over whether a media inquiry is needed.The Sydney Morning Herald reported  Scott saying, "[a]s far as the ABC is concerned, we already have a very major inquiry under way". Adding that no journalist at the ABC could escape the broadcaster's editorial policies. "The same rules apply around independence, fairness, balance and impartiality across all programs [...] It is the same rules that exist around television, radio, around news".At this time, the Australian government has not reached a decision on any possible inquiry around regulation and ownership of news media.Thai-Japanese Bangkok Youth Center, Bangkok —The Australia men's national wheelchair basketball team, known as the Rollers, and the Australia women's national wheelchair basketball team, known as the Gliders, won gold medals on Friday, the final day of the Asia–Oceania Zone Wheelchair Basketball Championships in Bangkok, Thailand.  The eight day championship was opened on November 22. Ten countries competed for places at the International Wheelchair Basketball Federation (IWBF) World Championships next year — ten in the men's: Japan, Iran, China, Malaysia, Taipei, Australia, Korea, Kuwait, New Zealand and Thailand; and four in the women's: Australia, Japan, China and Thailand. For the Australians, it was a rare opportunity to play teams from neighboring countries. Their efforts to help other teams were appreciated; after one game the Kuwait men led a cheer of "Aussie! Aussie! Aussie!" To which the Thai women replied: "Oi! Oi! Oi!" Both the Australian teams went through the tournament undefeated. The Gliders defeated China in the gold medal game 57–35. The Rollers then took to the court and defeated Korea 63–46. Iran and Japan won the men's and women's bronze medal matches.This was one of four zone championships. The zones correspond to those of the IPC and FIBA: Americas, Europe, Asia–Oceania and Africa. Each zone is guaranteed one place at the World Championships. Under recently-introduced rules, performance at the Paralympic games gains additional spots for the zone, not for the country. Only the home team is guaranteed a place.The new zone system has already proved controversial, with Algeria  defeating South Africa in the recent Africa Zone Championships in Angola to grab the sole spot allocated to Africa, and Canada missing out on one of the four men's spots for the Americas zone. In a shock result, these places went to the United States, Argentina, Mexico and Colombia. Great Britain, Turkey, Spain, Sweden, Italy, Germany and the Netherlands are to round out the championships as the men's teams from the European Zone.The men's World Championship are to be held in July next year in Incheon, South Korea, while the women's are to be in Toronto, Canada. Maureen Orchard. President and Secretary General of the IWBF told Wikinews the women's competition will in no way be inferior to the men's. The women are to be put up in a five-star hotel, and play at Toronto's Maple Leaf Gardens. Without their men's team competing, the women's competition is expected to generate considerable interest in Canada. The home team is to be joined by teams from the Netherlands, Germany, Great Britain, France, the United States, Brazil, Mexico, and Peru to compete against the winners from the Asia–Oceania Zone.The sport of wheelchair basketball has great popularity. In London, additional seats at the North Greenwich Arena sold out online within minutes.Western Australian Paralympic bronze medalist Janet Shaw has died following a long battle with cancer.  She was 46 years old.A vision impaired cyclist, she and pilot Kelly McCombie earned a pair of bronze medals at the 2004 Summer Paralympics in the individual pursuit and road race/time trial events.  She also won four medals at the 2002 IPC Cycling World Championships. Beyond cycling, Shaw worked as a motivational speaker and author, having written two memoirs, Beyond the Red Door and a follow up called Bit of a Super Hero: Choosing the Challenge – My Journey with Cancer.Australian national team coach said of Shaw, "I was privileged to be a National Coach with the Australian Paralympic Team for Athens and have a role with Janet and Kelly leading into those Games. They dedicated themselves so solidly together, and came away medaling in two events.... Janet said losing her eyesight was the best thing that ever happened to her because it eventually led her to where she was standing, waiting to achieve glory in Athens. That quote has stayed with me ever since. She was an amazingly strong person who actually saw more than us."This is the second recent death of an Australian Paralympian. In late November, another Australian Paralympian, Peter Marsh of Queensland, died at the age of 64.  He competed at the 1976 Summer Paralympics, 1980 Summer Paralympics and 1984 Summer Paralympics.  Prior to his death, he was active in a project to document the history of the Paralympic movement in Australia on Wikipedia.Sydney radio broadcaster Stan Zemanek died early this morning (AEST) due to a brain tumour, aged 60. Zemanek retired from radio in December last year due to ill health and a desire to spend more time with his family.Born in Sydney on May 29, 1947, he began work as a researcher for Radio C-Fun 141 in Vancouver, Canada. He then returned to Australia and worked on the John Laws program during the 1970s.Zemanek then returned to North America, where he covered the 1983 America's Cup. Upon returning to Australia again, he spent the 14 years prior to his retirement at Sydney station 2UE, where he was a night-time presenter.He was often abrupt on the radio, and revelled in being controversial due to his outspoken nature - something which won him a large listening audience. He was also not afraid to confront people who rung in to discuss controversial topics, and was described by The Sydney Morning Herald as a "professional stirrer."He is survived by his wife Marcella, his two daughters, and his two grandchildren.In the wake of the season finale of MasterChef Australia, The Seven Network has announced that they shall be airing an "Aussie" remake of the Japanese cult classic Iron Chef.Production starts in September in Melbourne, Victoria, with Neil Perry, Guy Grossi, and Guillaume Brahimi as the incumbent "Iron Chefs".Grossi stated that Australians seem to be taking to the cooking show concept positively. Grossi also said that "if we can discover some great new talent along the way, all the better."The Australian Iron Chef will take the traditional format of the Japanese version with contestants challenging the Iron Chefs to a cook-off using a secret ingredient each week, a spokesperson said. The dishes the Iron Chef and the contestants create will then be judged by a panel of food critics."The Iron Chef battle is not for amateurs or the faint-hearted — it is a cooking competition of Olympic proportions," the spokesperson continued.As it stands, MasterChef Australia is the third most watched show in Australian history.The Australian Broadcasting Corporation has announced plans to broadcast the Victorian Football League Grand Final, played on September 25, around Australia on its ABC HD channel.  Victorian viewers will be able to watch a full replay on ABC1 from 10pm that night“It will be the first time the VFL Grand Final has been telecast in high definition and footy fans are in for a visual feast,” Head of ABC TV Sports and Events, Justin Holdforth said.“The VFL is the State’s oldest football competition and the VFL Grand Final, to be played under lights at Docklands Stadium, will be a magnificent prelude to the AFL Grand Final on Saturday afternoon.”The Australian Football League forwarded a short statement to Wikinews stating that the broadcast would help the game further."We think its great news and great exposure for the state competition. AFL Victoria does a great job with the VFL and this will help the game further," the statement said.AFL Victoria CEO Peter Schwab says the VFL has a reputation of being the best state based competition in Australia.“Our State League has the reputation as being the best competition outside the AFL, now footy fans across Australia can see for themselves,” Mr Schwab said.“I’m sure the delayed broadcast on ABC1 later that Friday night, and a highlights package of the VFL Grand Final the next day leading up to the AFL Grand Final, will also prove popular with footy fans.“The ABC has been a great supporter of the VFL over the years and we certainly appreciate them broadcasting our game live during the peak rating period on Friday night.”Australian Greens Senator Bob Brown today called for a ban on junk food advertisements during times that children are watching TV. In a press release, the Senator referred specifically to the previous night's episode of Four Corners."The extensive use of psychologists to analyse little children’s responsiveness to TV advertising, including how best to influence parents to buy goods by 'nagging' from children, is exploitation without honour," Senator Brown said.The documentary, entitled How The Kids Took Over, investigated the increase in marketing to children, who "have a say" in AU$700 billion worth of spending each year. "The marketing assault is aimed not only at getting children to spend. Even companies who market adult products, such as cars, are enlisting children to help persuade their parents to buy the 'right' brand," the program summary said.In the past the Government has rejected such calls. It recently launched a $6 million advertising campaign encouraging children to exercise an hour each day.Senator Brown says he plans to propose a Senate Inquiry.Australian solar racing team Sunswift paraded their fifth car, eVe, on the Kensington campus of the University of New South Wales, Sydney, yesterday. They are leaving for the 2013 World Solar Challenge this weekend. Both staff and students came to the send-off event in the early afternoon.The vehicle route led from the biomed lawn of Michael Birt Gadrens in upper Kensington Campus down the University Mall to Anzac Parade with a few stops along the way at Commerce Courtyard and Globe Lawn. The driver, as well as the passenger, alighted as six members of the team carried eVe over the stairs of University Mall.eVe, the latest car built by the Sunswift team, was designed for the new Cruiser class of the competition, and thus meets regulations for normal roads-worthy vehicles. While its predecessor IVy weighed under 150 kg, eVe weighs approximately 300 kg, with light carbon fiber monocoque construction and 15 kWh batteries weighing only 63 kg. However, eVe has achieved a similar drag coefficient, despite different overall shape and larger frontal area.The 2013 Bridgestone World Solar Challenge is to take place on October 6–13, 2013.The Independent Sport Panel Report, set up to look into sports funding, was published in Australia last week, prompting debate and speculation for the future of sport in the country. Many in the sector believe the report will prompt changes in the way sport is funded and administered in Australia.File:Colemanflies.jpgJohn Coates, President of the Australian Olympic Committee, criticised the report, and several elite sports people have joined Coates' calls for sustained funding to Olympic level sport. Other commentators have welcomed the recommendations, challenging commonly held beliefs that Australians benefit from funding high performance athletes. Such positions call for more resourcing of sport at a participation level rather than performance level.Key recommendation areas in the report are:Defining Australia's national sports visionReforming the Australian Sports Commission to lead the sports systemMerging Australia's institutes of sportBuilding the capacity of Australia's national sporting organisationsPutting sport and physical activity back into educationBuilding community sport with people and placesEnsuring Australia's sports system is open to allSustaining the funding base for sportAustralians now await a Government response to the recommendations.A school in Melbourne, Australia has experienced a backlash from the public for changing the last line of Marion Sinclair's iconic Australian folk song Kookaburra Sits in the Old Gum Tree from "Laugh, kookaburra, laugh, kookaburra, gay your life must be" to "fun your life must be".Gary Martin, principal of Le Page Primary School in Melbourne, claims that he changed the lyrics as he thought that "the kids will roll around the floor in fits of laughter" upon hearing the original lyrics. Martin wanted to reduce classroom disruption by  omitting the word "gay", here used to mean "happy", as it was also commonly used as a playground insult. "For example, if a boy is not particularly good at sport, they will refer to that child as gay," he continued.Martin told the Nine Network, "I wasn't trying to incite or insult gay people, [..] it was just a decision at the time that I thought would minimise a disruptive atmosphere with grades one and two".A group of Australian entertainers have sacrificed Christmas at home to spread some Christmas cheer among 450 troops deployed in Iraq. The show was put on for troops in the Al Muthanna Task group at a base near the town of As Samawah.Performer Little Pattie (Patricia Thompson), who entertained Australian and allied troops during the Vietnam War at the age of 17, led the entertainment. She was joined by Beccy Cole, Angry Anderson, Hayley Jensen, Bessie Bardot, Geoff Barker and Lehmo."I feel I'm here to continue a time-honoured tradition which is of Australian performers performing for Australian forces no matter where they are in the world," Little Pattie said."It's a thing as a country we need to constantly be reminded of that they represent us as a nation around the world" said Angry Anderson.The Christmas spirit also reached HMAS Parramatta, which is deployed to protect Iraq's oil infrastructure in the Persian Gulf. The HMAS Parramatta sailors received a surprise visit from Santa Claus who handed out presents.Australia’s Nine Network has issued an apology after the rival Seven Network caught Nine News fabricating live crosses to the search site for murdered schoolboy Daniel Morcombe. The network issued a statement after Saturday and Sunday’s Nine News bulletins in Brisbane, which featured presenter Eva Milic crossing “live” to the site with the caption: “Near Beerwah”.The rival Seven Network, based nearby, lifted the lid on the scam after filming the Nine News chopper almost 100 kilometres south of Beerwah – on the helipad outside the studio, with lights on and blades in motion while Cameron Price reported from inside. Nine admitted to faking Sunday’s cross; issuing a statement on Monday blaming bad weather.“Our chopper was forced to divert from Beerwah due to bad weather, and air control instructed them to touch down,” it read.The network also told media industry website mUmBRELLA that “the producer was unaware until it was too late to abort or delay the cross”.Doubts have been cast over the truth of this statement, however, as it has since emerged that the chopper was also absent from Beerwah on Saturday, and was in fact circling Brisbane’s western suburbs during Melissa Mallet’s report. Director of Queensland Seven News, Rob Raschke, questioned the merit of Nine’s claims, telling Brisbane’s Courier-Mail, “the idea of not knowing where a $3 million helicopter is defies belief”.A revised statement yesterday announced a Nine investigation into why the location of the helicopter was misreported on both nights, describing the situation as “unacceptable”.Eight cast and crew members of the Australian television show The Chaser's War on Everything successfully breached the security surrounding the APEC summit meeting in Sydney, Australia. Using a cavalcade of three cars and two motorcycles branded with the Canadian Flag, the crew passed through two security check points, reaching the "red zone". It was only when the team attempted to turn around, ten meters from the InterContinental Hotel where United States President George W Bush was staying, that police realised the security breach and pounced.Eleven people have been charged over the incident, the eight cast and crew members and the three drivers. Two motor bike drivers at the front were told to run and police are currently searching for them. Comedian and cast member Chas Licciardello was dressed up as Osama bin Laden during the event. All 11 have been bailed to appear in court on October 4, 2007.New South Wales minister for police denied that the security services had been embarrassed by the event. A police statement said that the shows producers had been cautioned a week beforehand about trying any stunts during the APEC meetings.The Chaser had tried unsuccessfully yesterday to breach security when they dressed up as a NSW Police horse.On April 25, 2007 The Chaser successfully asked Jimbo Wales 10 questions during his visit to Sydney as a part of a segment for The Chaser's War on Everything series.Austrian cellist and conductor Heinrich Schiff's death was announced yesterday morning, having died overnight. He was 65.Born in Gmunden in 1951, Schiff made his orchestral début in 1971. His 1978 recording début earned him an Artist of the Year award at the Deutsche Schallplattenpreis. After achieving worldwide acclaim he retired as a soloist in 2012 following a 2008 stroke, becoming a conductor instead. He had already been taking conducting jobs as a sideline from the late 1980s.Schiff studied at the Vienna Music Academy, and conducting roles included with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, the Philharmonia Orchestra, the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, the Northern Sinfonia, and the Vienna Chamber Orchestra. Instructing jobs included at the Cologne Academy of Music and Dance, the University of Basel, the Salzburg Mozarteum, and Vienna's University of Music and the Pictorial Arts.Awards included the French Grand Prix du Disque. Performances included the 1988 German Schleswig-Holstein Music Festival, attended by the UK's Prince Charles.Schiff complained in 1988 classical music was "very much mistreated" by contemporary artists. "Take the Mozart violin concertos," he said. "If you hear any of the top ten violinists playing them it's beautiful sound, fine technique, but the style is hopelessly wrong — it's almost a different language."Fellow cellist Steven Isserlis said last year Schiff credited the music of Bach with his recovery following the 2008 stroke. "He looked at me, and said quietly: 'Bach saved my life'", Isserlis said. "I asked him what he meant and he told me that a few years ago, he had a serious stroke, and was in danger of losing all mobility on his left side. As soon as he got to hospital, and realised what was happening, he started (almost instinctively, I imagine) to go through the fingerings of the Prelude to Bach’s first suite, moving his fingers ceaselessly to the imaginary music. He did this for about 20 hours a day, he thinks; and gradually his whole body came back to life, powered by those fingerings." Isserlis lamented the "terrible, terrible" loss of a "person with a core of true goodness and humanity; and a wonderfully serious, genuine musician".Schiff died early yesterday morning in a Vienna hospital.Wikinews interviewed author Amy Scobee about her book Scientology - Abuse at the Top, and asked her about her experiences working as an executive within the organization. Scobee joined the organization at age 14, and worked at Scientology's international management headquarters for several years before leaving in 2005. She served as a Scientology executive in multiple high-ranking positions, working out of the international headquarters of Scientology known as "Gold Base", located in Gilman Hot Springs near Hemet, California.British-born author, journalist and political commentator Christopher Hitchens has died yesterday aged 62 at the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas, following a diagnosis of esophageal cancer in June 2010.Hitchens was born in 1949 in Portsmouth. After graduating from Oxford with a third-class degree in politics, philosophy and economics in 1970, Hitchens wrote for the Times Higher Educational Supplement briefly, before moving on to the New Statesman where he met the novelist Martin Amis. After moving to the United States in 1981, he started writing for U.S.-based publications like Vanity Fair, The Atlantic and Slate.In more recent years, Hitchens sided with George W. Bush in supporting the war in Iraq, and also went on to write a polemical book on religion, God Is Not Great, following a theme apparent in his earlier debunking efforts towards Mother Teresa—"a fanatic, a fundamentalist, and a fraud" according to Hitchens. The death of Jerry Falwell raised Hitchens' ire, stating that it is "a shame that there is no hell for Falwell to go to" and calling him a "faith-based fraud".In his memoirs, Hitch-22, he wrote of a sexual encounter with two (unnamed) male members of Margaret Thatcher's cabinet. Hitchens was well-known for his drinking and smoking habits, consuming 50,000 cigarettes a year according to one report, and drinking enough every day "to stun the average mule" (according to Hitchens himself). The discovery of cancer last year was, according to Hitchens, "something so predictable and banal that it bores even me".Salman Rushdie, whom Hitchens had supported against Ayatollah Khomeini's fatwa, wrote on Twitter following Hitchens' death: "Goodbye, my beloved friend. A great voice falls silent. A great heart stops".Hitchens was not close to his brother Peter Hitchens, a conservative columnist. He is survived by wife Carol Blue, daughter Antonia, and two children Alexander and Sophia from an earlier marriage.English author and playwright Keith Waterhouse has died at the age of 80. His family issued a statement on Friday morning saying, "Keith Waterhouse, aged 80, died quietly in his sleep this morning." The spokesperson for his family said that he "had not been very well," but did not state his illness or cause of death.He is best known for writing the best-selling novel Billy Liar in 1959 — a book that was later turned into a film in 1963 starring Tom Courtenay.  His other works include his screen-writing debut, Whistle Down the Wind in 1961.  He was also a playwright.  Some of his well-known plays included Mr and Mrs Nobody and Jeffrey Bernard is Unwell which debuted in 1989 on the West End in London.Waterhouse was also a columnist for the British tabloid newspaper, the Daily Mail, from 1993 until May 2009, when health problems forced him to quit. When talking about the late writer's last column in the newspaper, Daily Mail writer Geoffrey Levy said, "Thanks for every word, Keith."American author and journalist Hunter S. Thompson found dead in his Aspen, Colorado home of an apparent suicide. His son, Juan Thompson, told the Associated Press that his 67-year-old father shot himself at the Aspen, Colorado residence."On Feb. 20, Dr. Hunter S. Thompson took his life with a gunshot to the head at his fortified compound in Woody Creek, Colorado. The family will shortly provide more information about memorial service and media contacts. Hunter prized his privacy and we ask that his friends and admirers respect that privacy as well as that of his family," Juan Thompson said in a statement issued to Aspen Daily News. The death was confirmed by Pitkin County Sheriff Bob Braudis.Hunter S. Thompson was best known for his 1972 book "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas". He was recently married and had emotionally supported his friend John Kerry's candidacy.American author Kurt Vonnegut, Jr., best known for works blending satire, black comedy, and science fiction, has died at age 84. After a fall in his Manhattan, New York home, he suffered brain injuries and died on Wednesday from complications related to those injuries.Some of Vonnegut's most famous works include Slaughterhouse-Five (1969), Cat's Cradle (1963), and Breakfast of Champions (1973). He achieved cult-like status among American college students in the 1960s and 70s.Author Robert Asprin died Thursday in his New Orleans, Louisiana home at the age of 61. Asprin, known for his science fiction and fantasy novels including the MythAdventures series, and Thieves World series of shared world anthologies which he created and edited with his then-wife, Lynn Abbey, was also known by his The Society for Creative Anachronism, Inc. (SCA) nickname of "Yang the Nauseating".Asprin had been scheduled to appear as a keynote guest at the Multiple Alternative Realities Convention (MARCON) in Columbus, Ohio, over the weekend, and his body was discovered by an SCA friend who had come to pick him up to take him to the airport.He is survived by his mother, sister, son, daughter, and cat, Princess. According to his wishes, a gathering at Fahy's Pub in the French Quarter will be held tonight in lieu of a formal memorial service.The 3D science fiction epic romance Avatar has surpassed Titanic—also by director James Cameron—as the highest-grossing international film of all time.Avatar has overtaken Titanic by a margin of more than 15 million US dollars, with both films grossing in excess of $1.843bn. The film has been the most popular film in box offices around North America and Europe for six weeks, with United Kingdom takings for this weekend alone in excess of £5.1m. In the United States, the film has pushed The Dark Knight into third place.Avatar's victory has been put down to the higher prices many viewers have had to pay to see the film in 3D, as well as inflation over time (as the figures have not been adjusted for such). If the figures are adjusted for inflation, it is beaten to the top spot by Gone with the Wind. In the adjusted chart, Titanic makes it only to number six, with other members of the top ten including Star Wars, The Sound of Music, and E.T: The Extra-Terrestrial.The drummer of metalcore rock band Avenged Sevenfold, James Owen Sullivan, has been found dead at his California home located in the United States. Sullivan, better known as "The Rev," was found dead on Monday at his home in Huntington Beach at around 1:00 p.m. (PST). It is believed that the 28-year-old died of natural causes. Sullivan was one of the founding members of Avenged Sevenfold when the group debuted in 1999. The group achieved notable success when they won the MTV Best New Artist award in 2006. The group was reportedly working on a fifth album at the time of Sullivan’s death. Avenged Sevenfold released a statement via their website saying "It is with great sadness and heavy hearts that we tell you of the passing today of Jimmy “The Rev” Sullivan. Jimmy was not only one of the world's best drummers, but more importantly he was our best friend and brother. Our thoughts and prayers go out to Jimmy's family and we hope that you will respect their privacy during this difficult time." They added, "Jimmy you are forever in our hearts. We love you."An investigation into the cause of Sullivan's death is ongoing.File:Oscar icon by reiartur.pngThe 77th Annual Academy Awards were held on February 27th, 2005 and broadcast live across the world.  Some of the more poignant moments included a tribute to Johnny Carson, frequent host of the Awards, as well as a video tribute to many people involved in the movie industry who died in the past year, including Rodney Dangerfield, Ossie Davis, Christopher Reeve, Marlon Brando, and Ronald Reagan, set to the music of Yo Yo Ma.For the first time in 14 years, an Avro Vulcan heavy bomber has taken to the skies over England. The newly-restored aircraft took off from  Bruntingthorpe Aerodrome, Leicestershire. The craft flew for about 25 minutes in the first of three planned test flights from Bruntingthorpe Aerodrome, meant to prove that the craft is officially "airworthy", the only Vulcan to hold such a distinction. It has taken £6 million to return the aircraft to service.The aircraft, XH558, bombed the Argentinian-held Port Stanley in the Falkand Islands during the 1982 conflict.British Grammy Award winning singer George Michael has been cautioned over drug use. The 45 year old singer was caught with class A and C drugs in the Hampstead Heath area of London. He was arrested on 19 September after being caught in the public toilet. British Home Office Minister Tony McNulty said drug laws needed to be "flexible". He stated he did not know the details of the case when questioned why Michael was given a mild sentence. Michael was banned from driving for two years after being caught slumped behind the wheel of his car twice. He pleaded guilty to driving while unfit through drugs. On May 15, 2006 Michael was found semi-conscious apparently snoozing at traffic lights while in his Range Rover. In the early hours of October 1, 2006, Michael was found unconscious in his Mercedes-Benz S-Class car, causing an obstruction. Michael found his fame as front man of pop band Wham!. He won two Grammy awards as well as 12 British number one singles. Michael announced that he would be retiring from touring after completing his first tour in 15 years last month. He announced that he would release a Christmas single in December.The Ayya Vaikunda Avatharam is a festival celebrated in a grand scale in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. People from almost all the districts of Tamil Nadu visit Swamithoppe Pathi, the religious headquarters of Ayyavazhi. And for the comfort of the devotees, for a long time the religious leader of Ayyavazhi Bala Prajapathi Adikalar and some other Ayyavazhi Movements demanded from the government, a leave of absence for the districts of Tirunelveli, Chennai, Madurai, Thoothukudi and Virudunagar. Taking into consideration, the government of Tamil Nadu have announced the day of Vaikunda Avatharam (March 4) as a holiday for the districts of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi, the districts in which the Ayyavazhi followers was populated mostly, from this year. Still, they request for a leave for the districts for Chennai, Madurai and Virudunagar.Azerbaijan has won the 2011 Eurovision Song Contest in Düsseldorf, Germany. Duo Ell & Nikki, which consists of Eldar Gasimov and Nigar Jamal, won the contest with 221 points after their performence of Running Scared. This is the first time that Azerbaijan has won the contest, they first appeared in 2008. Italy took second place and Sweden finished third.Commenting on their country's win the pair said "the one thing we want to say is, we just love you. Thank you for your support". Gasimov continued to say that he was "the happiest man in the world".Azerbaijan received the maximum of 12 points from three countries, Russia, Turkey, and Malta.Ukraine came fourth in the contest and fifth place went to Denmark. Switzerland came in last with 19 points. Host and last year's winner Germany finished in tenth place. Other countries that participated in the final include Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece, Ireland, Georgia, the United Kingdom, Moldova, Slovenia, Serbia, France, Russia, Romania, Austria, Lithuania, Iceland, Finland, Hungary, Spain, and Estonia.Two semi-final heats were held in the days before the final to determine which acts would proceed to the final. Greece and Sweden won the semi-finals with 133 and 155 points. The countries that failed to make it to the final are Malta, Armenia, Turkey, Albania, Croatia, San Marino, Norway, Portugal, Poland, Belgium, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Belarus, Israel, F.Y.R Macedonia, Latvia, Cyprus, and the NetherlandsTwo daughters of blues legend B.B. King are claiming on Monday that he was poisoned by business manager LaVerne Toney and personal assistant Myron Johnson. The allegations were made by daughters Karen Williams and Patty King in affidavits provided by their lawyer to the Associated Press."I believe my father was poisoned and that he was administered foreign substances," Williams and King said in identically worded sections of the affidavits. "I believe my father was murdered."Williams and King also allege that family members were prevented from visiting their father prior to his death. The lawyer for King's estate says the claims are ridiculous."I hope they have a factual basis that they can demonstrate for their defamatory and libelous allegations," lawyer Brent Bryson said in a statement to the Associated Press.Bryson says that King was appropriately cared for by medical professionals up until his death on May 14 in Las Vegas.An autopsy of B.B. King's body was carried out on Sunday by the Clark County, Nevada coroner's office. The coroner's office said on Twitter that it would be a minimum of six to eight weeks before results of the autopsy are finalised.The Las Vegas Police department said that a potential homicide investigation into the death of the blues legend will depend on autopsy findings.A six-pound infant born in San Francisco, California has six perfectly formed and functional fingers and toes on his hands and feet, so that it isn't considered a disability or deformity, say doctors at Saint Luke's Hospital who were amazed by the oddity.In a medical rarity, super baby Kamani Hubbard was born two weeks ago with 24 working digits.  He is healthy and home with his parents in Daly City, California. Polydactyly, a congenital disorder is not uncommon in humans and animals, including cats, but to happen on both hands and feet is a rare hereditary condition.  "Nurses and doctors, looked so normal they couldn't tell, they told me he was six pounds in good health, that was all they said," said Miryoki Gross, Hubbard’s mother. Her baby's specialness didn't even show up on prenatal ultrasounds. "I heard nothing before I gave birth so I'm still in shock, kinda," Gross added. Despite the mother's shock, Kamani's father, Kris, was the first to notice the condition.Polydactyly (from Ancient Greek means 'πολύς' (polus)  or "many" + 'δάκτυλος' (daktulos)  "finger[s]"), also known as polydactylism, sexdactyly, hexadactyly, or hexadactylism, is a congenital physical disorder consisting of supernumerary fingers or toes.In Kamani's case, however, all of the digits are perfectly formed and function or work normally. "I was in amazement, it took a little time for me to take it all in," said Kris, a postal worker, who has a family history of polydactylism, but none of his relatives can remember it happening on both hands and feet. Mostly, cases of polydactyly are surgically corrected. Kris himself had nubs of sixth digits, which were removed during his early childhood, for having been non-functional. "My son has six fingers then I saw toes, and I thought, this is quite unique. Some family members have had six fingers, not completely developed. But not the toes," Kris noted."I would be tempted to leave those fingers in place. I realize children would tease each other over the slightest things, and having extra digits on each hand is more than slight. But imagine what sort of a pianist a 12-fingered person would be imagine what sort of a flamenco guitarist, if nothing else think of their typing skills," Dr. Treece remarked."I just want him to see what greatness will be in store for him," said Kris. Fully developed and functional extra digits on both hands and feet are considered very rare as a genetic trait in medical history, amid some partial development of an extra digit occurs about twice in every 1,000 white male births. Ordinarily, polydactylism appears as an extra piece of non-functional tissue, typically occurring as an extra finger, sometimes with a bone, but no joint."It's merely an interesting and beautiful variation rather than a worrisome thing," said Dr. Michael Treece, a St. Luke's Hospital pediatrician, and the OBGYN who delivered Kamani. He has postaxial polydactyly, which is 10 times more likely to occur in black children, and also more likely to appear in boys.Goliath, a figure in Old Testament, was depicted as having had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. Blues guitarist Hound Dog Taylor, Get Carter, Little Tich, Toyotomi Hideyoshi and several other figures in history have had polydactyly. Sid Wilson, a turntablist of Slipknot, had been born with an extra finger and toe on his hands and feet which were removed shortly after his birth as doctors considered them to be dead.Drinks, drugs, violence, promiscuity: British youth at the top or near the top of the bad youth list. And they frighten grown ups.A report by the Institute of Public Policy Research, to be published next week, describes British youth as among the worst in Europe. The study compares teenage English and Scots with their counterparts in other European countries. Fewer British youths ate regularly with their family, and many more spent most evenings with their friends; they were drunk more often, got involved in fights and more had sex than other European youth.More British adults than Continental adults would be reluctant to intervene should they see youths vandalising a bus shelter fearing a violent response.  Many adults were fearful of leaving home after dark and a large number were thinking of moving home because of youths "hanging about".The demonisation of youth in the British media is said to have induced real fear in many adults.Many more comparisons are made in this report.The Bahamas on Tuesday approved a law banning shark fishing in its waters, along with selling, importing and exporting shark products. This makes the Bahamas the fourth country to ban shark fishing, joining the Maldives, Honduras, and Palau. The 630,000 sq km of water around the Bahamas has now become an official shark sanctuary.The ban is welcomed by many, including environmentalists. The President of the Bahamas National Trust, Neil McKinney, spoke about the issue saying, "They desperately need protection if we're not going to drive them to extinction." Deputy Prime Minister Brent Symonette also commented on the ban: "This is in keeping with the government's commitment to pursue conservation policies and strategies in order to safeguard the marine and terrestrial environment."However, some feel that the ban will affect relations with China. Shark-fin soup is highly popular in China, with around 73 million sharks killed every year. To prepare shark-fin soup, the fins are often scraped off, and the body of the shark is thrown back into the water.  A report published by the Pew Charitable Trusts found that shark populations have fallen by 70 to 80 per cent, with a third of all shark species being threatened or nearly threatened by extinction.Sunday, Hollywood stars gathered in the Beverly Hilton ballroom in Beverly Hills, California, for the 10th Annual Children Uniting Nations Oscar viewing party for the 81st Academy Awards.Wikinews reporter Ilya Haykinson attended the party; the two prior years were covered by outside volunteer photographers.The following is a selection from the hundreds of images taken by Haykinson, of the guests at this party.David Hempleman-Adams left St. John's at approximately 9:30 p.m. local time on July 2, 2007 from St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador in a small helium filed balloon in an attempt to make the Trans-Atlantic crossing in the smallest balloon ever to make such a crossing. The final destination of the landing is not known and will be determined as the flight nears its end. The craft is made of light weight material with just enough space for necessary equipment and cooking implements. The basket is small and has openings in the side for Hempleman-Adams to extend his legs as he sleeps. Hempleman-Adams is hoping to make the crossing in three to four days and reach Europe by July 5 or 6th.Copies of The Profit, a 2001 film blocked from distribution in the United States due to a court injunction won by the Church of Scientology, appeared on the Internet Friday on peer-to-peer file-sharing websites and on the video sharing site YouTube. Directed by former film executive Peter N. Alexander, the movie has been characterized by critics as a parody of Scientology and of its founder L. Ron Hubbard. Alexander was a Scientologist for twenty years, and left the organization in 1997. The film was funded by Bob Minton, a former critic of Scientology who later signed an agreement with the Church of Scientology and has attempted to stop distribution of the film. Alexander has stated that the movie is based on his research into cults, and when asked by the St. Petersburg Times about parallels to Scientology and L. Ron Hubbard said: "I'll let you draw that conclusion ... I say it's entirely fictional."The film was released in August 2001, and was shown at a movie theatre in Clearwater, Florida and at a premiere at the Cannes Film Festival in France. A Scientology spokesman gave a statement at the time saying "the movie is fiction and has nothing to do with Scientology". The Church of Scientology later took legal action in an attempt to stop further distribution of the film. The Church of Scientology claimed that the film was intended to influence the jury pool in the wrongful death case of Scientologist Lisa McPherson, who died under Scientology care in Clearwater, Florida. In April 2002, a Pinellas County, Florida judge issued a court order enjoining The Profit from worldwide distribution for an indefinite period. According to the original court injunction received by Wikinews, the movie was originally banned because the court found that it could be seen as a parody of Scientology. In his April 20, 2002 ruling on the injunction, Judge Robert E. Beach of the Sixth Judicial Circuit Court in Pinellas County, Florida wrote: "...an average person viewing the film entitled The Profit could perceive that it is a parody of the Church of Scientology". "To the extent that any person considered as a potential juror in evaluating any issues involving the Church of Scientology, the process of voir dire provides a fair and complete remedy to eliminate any potential juror that may possibly have been influenced to be less than fair and impartial," added Beach.Luke Lirot, the attorney for the film's production company, announced on the film's website on April 7, 2007 that "We have absolutely no exposure for any repercussions from the court order," but that the film was still blocked from distribution due to an ongoing legal battle. Lirot wrote: "all that's stopping the release of the movie is the legal battle with the partner who was compromised by Scientology (Robert Minton) and is currently using his power as partner to stop the release of the film."In an October 2007 article, The Times described the film as "banned in the US because of a lawsuit taken out against it by The Church of Scientology," and Russ Kick's The Disinformation Book of Lists included the film in his "List of 16 Movies Banned in the U.S.". An 8-minute teaser segment from The Profit appeared on the film's website and on the video sharing site YouTube in February 2008, and an attorney representing Bob Minton sent a letter to Luke Lirot requesting that the film clip be taken down. In a response letter, Lirot wrote that "Rather than damage any asset of the LLC, the short clip merely keeps the film in the public eye, and in a positive way."On Friday, copies of the film began to circulate on peer-to-peer file-sharing websites and on YouTube. A link related to the film's appearance on the Internet on the community-based link aggregator website Digg.com had 3,638 "Diggs" - and hit the front page of the site's Entertainment section on Saturday. On Saturday, Scientology critic and Emmy award-winning journalist Mark Bunker put a streaming version of the film on his website, www.xenutv.com, and encouraged others to watch and discuss the film on a real-time chat channel. In a video posting to YouTube Saturday, Bunker said "I did not do it. I had nothing to do with it ... I had nothing to do with this release at all. But I'm happy it's out there ... people are finally having a chance to see it. A lot of people have been curious over the years and there's been a lot of interest in seeing the film, so finally you can."On the newsgroup alt.religion.scientology, a poster by the username "Alexia Death" commented on the film's appearance on the Internet in the context of censorship: "It is out! And so it is a WIN if many people review it even if they say it SUCKS! ... Being bad is no cause to allow censorship ... And being censored is no cause to assume its good". A post to the blog Blogsreel commented: "We have all wanted to see this movie that scientology kept hidden away from us. We have all wondered just how damning could this story be that we were banned from watching it." In a post on Sunday to the message board attached to the official website for the film, attorney Luke Lirot asked that individuals stop distributing copies of The Profit over the Internet. Lirot wrote: "It has been brought to my attention that several unauthorized transmissions and downloads of this protected work have taken place over the last 72 hours. Such actions are copyright violations and are unlawful. I request that any further distribution and/or dissemination of this important work cease immediately and any copies of the work that have been downloaded please be deleted." In his statement, Lirot recognized the rights of individuals under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, but also said that unauthorized distribution of the film "will only serve to harm the goal of vast distribution".Blog postings have attributed the film's appearance on the Internet as part of the anti-Scientology movement Project Chanology organized by the Internet-based group Anonymous, but this has not been confirmed. Wikinews previously reported on international protests against Scientology which took place as part of Project Chanology on February 10 and March 15. A third international protest by Anonymous is scheduled for April 12. Titled "Operation Reconnect", the third international protest will focus on highlighting Scientology's practice of disconnection.Tuesday morning, ABC News correspondent, Barbara Walters announced on the television program, The View, that she is flying to Australia to talk with Terri Irwin, the widow of Steve Irwin. The exclusive interview will be televised next week.Irwin died recently when stung by a stingray, the subject of a segment for a show he was producing with his young daughter as host.Steve and Terri Irwin ran the Australia Zoo together, while Steve hosted many animal related series and specials, the most famous of which was titled Crocodile Hunter.While she is only on The View full-time, Walters stated on that program that journalism for ABC News is still her "bread and butter".Barbra Streisand was heckled during a concert on Monday night in New York City inside Madison Square Garden after doing a comedy sketch, impersonating the United States President, George W. Bush portraying him as a "bumbling idiot."Some of the audience members did not like her sketch and began to heckle the singer, causing Streisand to ask "Come on, be polite!" during her sketch.One audience member refused to stop and Streisand told him off."Shut the fuck up! Shut up if you can't take a joke!" said Streisand.The heckler was then asked to leave the concert. There is no word on who the heckler was.Streisand is currently making her first 16 city tour after nearly 12 years.Nancy Cartwright, 51, who is a long time member of the Church of Scientology, has created a recording using her voice of Bart Simpson as part of a robocall promotion. The message surfaced early Wednesday morning on YouTube.During the message, Cartwright states that "This is a special message" and announces a Scientology conference this coming weekend at the grand ballroom of the Hollywood & Highland Center in Los Angeles where she has a speaking engagement. The message ends with a toll free number to call to RSVP. Wikinews has obtained audio of the message, which is displayed near the end of this report.Cartwright, who also voices the roles of Nelson Muntz, Todd Flanders, Kearney and Ralph Wiggum, has been following the Church of Scientology since 1989. She has donated millions of dollars to the Scientology organization, founded by L. Ron Hubbard. In 2007, she gave a US$10 million donation to the organization, surpassing donations from actors Kirstie Alley, John Travolta, and Tom Cruise. Cartwright earns approximately $400,000 per episode.The Simpsons executives did not authorize this usage of intellectual property in this manner. Executive producer Al Jean told The Hollywood Reporter, "This is not authorized by us. The Simpsons does not, and never has, endorsed any religion, philosophy or system of beliefs any more profound than Butterfinger bars," referencing the advertisements featuring the Simpsons for the Butterfinger candy bar. The Simpsons creator Matt Groening has not yet issued a statement about Cartwright's recorded message. According to FOX News, Twentieth Century Fox television would not comment on whether or not Cartwright would face disciplinary actions in response to the usage of Bart Simpson's voice in this capacity.Cartwright begins the message with, "Hey, what's happening man, this is Bart Simpson...", and then says she is kidding and identifies herself as the voice actress. Cartwright proceeds to use her own voice and Bart's voice throughout the message. She states, "I'm now auditing on new OT [Operating Thetan] Seven," referring to a level of spiritual state as used within Scientology. Operating Thetan level seven is one of the higher levels in Scientology. Cartwright uses Scientology jargon while speaking in Bart's voice, saying she will share her "many wins" as an "Auditor" at the Hollywood Scientology event. She invites the listener to the Scientology organization's "Flag World Tour" event on January 31 in Hollywood, California, where she is planned to attend as a speaker.The message has since been removed from YouTube. Visitors of the link, which appears in several press articles, are now left with a message saying "this video is no longer available due to a copyright claim by Twentieth Century Fox." Wikinews sent an e-mail to FOX regarding the incident, but as of this report, they have not replied.Religion has been a major theme in The Simpsons. In the episode "The Joy of Sect", the commentators said that Movementarians were largely inspired by Scientology, the Jim Jones cult and the Peoples Temple, the Heaven's Gate Cult, the Rajneesh movement, the Raelians, the Oneida Society and Chen Tao.The late Isaac Hayes left South Park over its attitudes towards Scientology depicted in the episode: "Trapped in the Closet".The University Athletic Association of the Philippines (UAAP) announced the opening of the 2008-2009 season with innovations and new rules to spice up the premiere collegiate tournament in the country.The sport sepak takraw will be introduced as a demonstration game in this season and in the popular basketball matches among the ten member universities, a 16-man team will be implemented and the season opens with an early meet-up between rival basketball teams of De La Salle University and Ateneo de Manila University.Hector Callanta, secretary and treasurer of the athletic association said that there will be new rules, a definite new feel for this year's games.Every school year, the UAAP opens its competition among its member academic institutions to accredited sports such as swimming, volleyball, archery, and others.The game of basketball, especially between the UAAP's two top teams, La Salle and Ateneo are the much awaited event which will see action on July 6.Defending champion La Salle, will square-off with arch nemesis Ateneo and a beefed up line-up of the Far Eastern University.The season formally opens with a show and ceremony to be led by this year's host, the National University on July 5 at the Araneta Coliseum with an opening basketball match between Adamson University and Far Eastern University.Bat for Lashes is the doppelgänger band ego of one of the leading millennial lights in British music, Natasha Khan.  Caroline Weeks, Abi Fry and Lizzy Carey comprise the aurora borealis that backs this haunting, shimmering zither and glockenspiel peacock, and the only complaint coming from the audience at the Bowery Ballroom last Tuesday was that they could not camp out all night underneath these celestial bodies.    We live in the age of the lazy tendency to categorize the work of one artist against another, and Khan has had endless exultations as the next Björk and Kate Bush;  Sixousie Sioux, Stevie Nicks, Sinead O'Connor, the list goes on until it is almost meaningless as comparison does little justice to the sound and vision of the band.  "I think Bat For Lashes are beyond a trend or fashion band," said Jefferson Hack, publisher of Dazed & Confused magazine. "[Khan] has an ancient power...she is in part shamanic."  She describes her aesthetic as "powerful women with a cosmic edge" as seen in Jane Birkin, Nico and Cleopatra.  And these women are being heard.  "I love the harpsichord and the sexual ghost voices and bowed saws," said Radiohead's Thom Yorke of the track Horse and I. "This song seems to come from the world of Grimm's fairytales."Bat's debut album, Fur And Gold, was nominated for the 2007 Mercury Prize, and they were seen as the dark horse favorite until it was announced Klaxons had won.  Even Ladbrokes, the largest gambling company in the United Kingdom, had put their money on Bat for Lashes.  "It was a surprise that Klaxons won," said Khan, "but I think everyone up for the award is brilliant and would have deserved to win."Natasha recently spoke with David Shankbone about art, transvestism and drug use in the music business.  DS:  Do you have any favorite books?NK:  [Laughs]  I'm not the best about finishing books.  What I usually do is I will get into a book for a period of time, and then I will dip into it and get the inspiration and transformation in my mind that I need, and then put it away and come back to it.  But I have a select rotation of cool books, like Women Who Run With the Wolves by Clarissa Pinkola Estés and Little Birds by Anaïs Nin.  Recently, Catching the Big Fish by David Lynch.DS:  Lynch just came out with a movie last year called Inland Empire.  I interviewed John Vanderslice last night at the Bowery Ballroom and he raved about it!NK:  I haven't seen it yet!DS:  Do you notice a difference between playing in front of British and American audiences?NK:  The U.S. audiences are much more full of expression and noises and jubilation.  They are like, "Welcome to New York, Baby!" "You're Awesome!" and stuff like that.  Whereas in England they tend to be a lot more reserved.  Well, the English are, but it is such a diverse culture you will get the Spanish and Italian gay guys at the front who are going crazy.  I definitely think in America they are much more open and there is more excitement, which is really cool.DS:  How many instruments do you play and, please, include the glockenspiel in that number.NK:  [Laughs] I think the number is limitless, hopefully.  I try my hand at anything I can contribute; I only just picked up the bass, really—DS:  --I have a great photo of you playing the bass.NK:  I don't think I'm very good...DS:  You look cool with it!NK:  [Laughs]  Fine.  The glockenspiel...piano, mainly, and also the harp.  Guitar, I like playing percussion and drumming.  I usually speak with all my drummers so that I write my songs with them in mind, and we'll have bass sounds, choir sounds, and then you can multi-task with all these orchestral sounds.  Through the magic medium of technology I can play all kinds of sounds, double bass and stuff.DS:  Do you design your own clothes?NK:  All four of us girls love vintage shopping and charity shops.  We don't have a stylist who tells us what to wear, it's all very much our own natural styles coming through.  And for me, personally, I like to wear jewelery.  On the night of the New York show that top I was wearing was made especially for me as a gift by these New York designers called Pepper + Pistol.  And there's also my boyfriend, who is an amazing musician—DS:  —that's Will Lemon from Moon and Moon, right?  There is such good buzz about them here in New York.NK:  Yes!  They have an album coming out in February and it will fucking blow your mind!  I think you would love it, it's an incredible masterpiece.  It's really exciting, I'm hoping we can do a crazy double unfolding caravan show, the Bat for Lashes album and the new Moon and Moon album: that would be really theatrical and amazing!  Will prints a lot of my T-shirts because he does amazing tapestries and silkscreen printing on clothes.  When we play there's a velvety kind of tapestry on the keyboard table that he made.  So I wear a lot of his things, thrift store stuff, old bits of jewelry and antique pieces.DS:  You are often compared to Björk and Kate Bush; do those constant comparisons tend to bother you as an artist who is trying to define herself on her own terms?NK:  No, I mean, I guess that in the past it bothered me, but now I just feel really confident and sure that as time goes on my musical style and my writing is taking a pace of its own, and I think in time the music will speak for itself and people will see that I'm obviously doing something different.  Those women are fantastic, strong, risk-taking artists—DS:  —as are you—NK:  —thank you, and that's a great tradition to be part of, and when I look at artists like Björk and Kate Bush, I think of them as being like older sisters that have come before; they are kind of like an amazing support network that comes with me.DS:  I'd imagine it's preferable to be considered the next Björk or Kate Bush instead of the next Britney.NK: [Laughs] Totally!  Exactly! I mean, could you imagine—oh, no I'm not going to try to offend anyone now!  [Laughs]  Let's leave it there.DS:  Does music feed your artwork, or does you artwork feed your music more?  Or is the relationship completely symbiotic?NK:  I think it's pretty back-and-forth. I think when I have blocks in either of those area, I tend to emphasize the other.  If I'm finding it really difficult to write something I know that I need to go investigate it in a more visual way, and I'll start to gather images and take photographs and make notes and make collages and start looking to photographers and filmmakers to give me a more grounded sense of the place that I'm writing about, whether it's in my imagination or in the characters.   Whenever I'm writing music it's a very visual place in my mind.  It has a location full of characters and colors and landscapes, so those two things really compliment each other, and they help the other one to blossom and support the other.  They are like brother and sister.DS:  When you are composing music, do you see notes and words as colors and images in your mind, and then you put those down on paper?NK:  Yes.  When I'm writing songs, especially lately because I think the next album has a fairly strong concept behind it and I'm writing the songs, really imagining them, so I'm very immersed into the concept of the album and the story that is there through the album.  It's the same as when I'm playing live, I will imagine I see a forest of pine trees and sky all around me and the audience, and it really helps me.  Or I'll just imagine midnight blue and emerald green, those kind of Eighties colors, and they help me.DS:  Is it always pine trees that you see?NK:  Yes, pine trees and sky, I guess.DS:  What things in nature inspire you?NK:  I feel drained thematically if I'm in the city too long.  I think that when I'm in nature—for example, I went to Big Sur last year on a road trip and just looking up and seeing dark shadows of trees and starry skies really gets me and makes me feel happy.  I would sit right by the sea, and any time I have been a bit stuck I will go for a long walk along the ocean and it's just really good to see vast horizons, I think, and epic, huge, all-encompassing visions of nature really humble you and give you a good sense of perspective and the fact that you are just a small particle of energy that is vibrating along with everything else.  That really helps.DS:  Are there man-made things that inspire you?NK:  Things that are more cultural, like open air cinemas, old Peruvian flats and the Chelsea Hotel.  Funny old drag queen karaoke bars...DS:  I photographed some of the famous drag queens here in New York.  They are just such great creatures to photograph; they will do just about anything for the camera.  I photographed a famous drag queen named Miss Understood who is the emcee at a drag queen restaurant here named Lucky Cheng's.  We were out in front of Lucky Cheng's taking photographs and a bus was coming down First Avenue, and I said, "Go out and stop that bus!" and she did!  It's an amazing shot.  NK: Oh. My. God.DS:  If you go on her Wikipedia article it's there.NK: That's so cool.  I'm really getting into that whole psychedelic sixties and seventies Paris Is Burning and Jack Smith and the Destruction of Atlantis.  Things like The Cockettes.  There seems to be a bit of a revolution coming through that kind of psychedelic drag queen theater.DS:  There are just so few areas left where there is natural edge and art that is not contrived.  It's taking a contrived thing like changing your gender, but in the backdrop of how that is still so socially unacceptable.NK: Yeah, the theatrics and creativity that go into that really get me.  I'm thinking about The Fisher King...do you know that drag queen in The Fisher King?  There's this really bad and amazing drag queen guy in it who is so vulnerable and sensitive.  He sings these amazing songs but he has this really terrible drug problem, I think, or maybe it's a drink problem.  It's so bordering on the line between fabulous and those people you see who are so in love with the idea of beauty and elevation and the glitz and the glamor of love and beauty, but then there's this really dark, tragic side.  It's presented together in this confusing and bewildering way, and it always just gets to me.  I find it really intriguing.DS:  How are you received in the Pakistani community?NK:  [Laughs]  I have absolutely no idea!  You should probably ask another question, because I have no idea.  I don't have contact with that side of my family anymore.DS:  When you see artists like Pete Doherty or Amy Winehouse out on these suicidal binges of drug use, what do you think as a musician?  What do you get from what you see them go through in their personal lives and with their music?NK:  It's difficult.  The drugs thing was never important to me, it was the music and expression and the way he delivered his music, and I think there's a strange kind of romantic delusion in the media, and the music media especially, where they are obsessed with people who have terrible drug problems.  I think that's always been the way, though, since Billie Holiday.  The thing that I'm questioning now is that it seems now the celebrity angle means that the lifestyle takes over from the actual music.  In the past people who had musical genius, unfortunately their personal lives came into play, but maybe that added a level of romance, which I think is pretty uncool, but, whatever.  I think that as long as the lifestyle doesn't precede the talent and the music, that's okay, but it always feels uncomfortable for me when people's music goes really far and if you took away the hysteria and propaganda of it, would the music still stand up?  That's my question. Just for me, I'm just glad I don't do heavy drugs and I don't have that kind of problem, thank God.  I feel that's a responsibility you have, to present that there's a power in integrity and strength and in the lifestyle that comes from self-love and assuredness and positivity.  I think there's a real big place for that, but it doesn't really get as much of that "Rock n' Roll" play or whatever.DS:  Is it difficult to come to the United States to play considering all the wars we start?NK:  As an English person I feel equally as responsible for that kind of shit.  I think it is a collective consciousness that allows violence and those kinds of things to continue, and I think that our governments should be ashamed of themselves.  But at the same time, it's a responsibility of all of our countries, no matter where you are in the world to promote  a peaceful lifestyle and not to consciously allow these conflicts to continue.  At the same time, I find it difficult to judge because I think that the world is full of shades of light and dark, from spectrums of pure light and pure darkness, and that's the way human nature and nature itself has always been.  It's difficult, but it's just a process, and it's the big creature that's the world; humankind is a big creature that is learning all the time.  And we have to go through these processes of learning to see what is right.On Friday night, Adam West, a US actor best known for his role as Batman in 1960s television series Batman, died at the age of 88 in Los Angeles, his family spokesperson said. Before his death, West "fought a short but brave battle with leukemia", his family said via Facebook.Actors Ben Affleck, Val Kilmer, and Mark Hamill, comic book writer Frank Miller, Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane as well as author Neil Gaiman paid tribute to Adam West via Twitter. Affleck and Kilmer portrayed the titular character in, the 2016 film Batman v Superman and the 1995 film Batman Forever respectively.Burt Ward, who played the role of Batman's sidekick Robin in the TV series with West, paid tribute via The Hollywood Reporter magazine. Julie Newmar, who played the role of Catwoman in the 1960s show, paid tribute as well via the BBC World Service radio program Newshour.DC Entertainment president and CEO Geoff Johns and publisher Jim Lee paid tribute via DC Comics's official blog.Adam West, younger of the two brothers, was born on September 19, 1928 in Washington. His father was a wheat farmer and his mother was a pianist and an opera singer. He received a Bachelor's Degree in English literature from Whitman College and worked as a station master at Stanford while he was a graduate student. West worked at McClatchy station in Sacramento, California before moving to Hawaii, where he hosted a weekday show in the late 1950s. He moved to Hollywood, California in 1959 and signed a contract with Warner Bros. He appeared in multiple series before portraying Detective Sergeant Steve Nelson in the 1959–62 television series, The Detectives, from 1961 to 1962. His film debut was the 1959 film The Young Philadelphians, starring Paul Newman. Before Batman, West appeared in many films throughout the 1960s.Lyle Waggoner and Adam West auditioned for the role of Batman while Peter Deyell and Burt Ward auditioned for the role of Robin. Batman TV series debuted on January 12, 1966 on the ABC network. Though the first season was a success, two subsequent seasons had a significant drop in the Nielsen ratings, and it was cancelled in March 1968.After Batman, West was given typecast roles throughout his career. He voiced Batman in animated shows, like The New Adventures of Batman, Legends of the Superheroes, and Super Friends: The Legendary Super Powers Show. He also voiced a role in an Academy Award-nominated 1997 short film Redux Riding Hood. He also voiced the role of Mayor Adam West in Family Guy, which MacFarlane called an "alternative universe" version of West.West married Marcelle in 1970; each had two children from their previous marriages. After the marriage, the couple had two children. West is survived by his wife Marcelle, six children, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.Approval has been given to the BBC (British Broadcasting Corporation) by the BBC Trust to go ahead with a proposal that would allow satellite TV to be "subscription free."Freesat will have no monthly subscription fee, and according to the BBC, the new system would "require a one-off payment for reception equipment.""Envisaged as a joint venture, Freesat will ensure the public remain in control of how they access the BBC's television channels and radio networks for which they have already paid. It is guaranteed to remain subscription free, ensuring that the benefits of digital television do not equal 'pay television'," said Chitra Bharucha, the acting Chairman of the BBC Trust.The service will be offered to anyone who is unable to watch digital TV from the current provider, Freeview, which is not available to at least 25% of people in the United Kingdom who watch or have a TV."Its [Freesat's] primary purpose is to drive digital take-up in analogue homes, particularly in those areas which are out of digital terrestrial coverage," said Mark Thompson, the Director-General of the BBC.Freesat will also be jointly operated by ITV. It is expected to launch in 2008 and is scheduled to be completed in 2012. The service will be installed "region by region," according to the BBC.More than 400 senior managers within the United Kingdom's BBC, which employs around 28,500 people, have been told that they face a real-terms pay cut as bonuses and pay rises are scrapped this financial year.Tuesday's announcement said that bonuses will not now be paid and pay rates will stay fixed until 2010. The BBC's executive management board, including Director-General Mark Thompson, his deputy Mark Byford and the Director of BBC Vision Jana Bennett did not take their bonuses for 2009 and have already had their pay frozen. Senior staff will have their bonus plan abandoned whilst junior staff have been told to expect any pay increases to be modest.The BBC is under budget constraints after receiving a licence fee settlement below the amount management felt it required. Coupled with the effects of the credit crunch, the BBC is believed to need to find £1.7bn in savings between now and 2013 but has seen a further £450m shortfall develop. Initial plans to sell important BBC buildings have been put on hold since the falls in the property market in 2008. The planned pay freeze could save £20 million but risks angering unions who are seeking a general increase of £1,800 per person. Gerry Morrissey of BECTU, the broadcasting union, has already mentioned the possibility of industrial action. He told Sky News, "We have never been in favour of bonuses being paid so believe this should happen every year, and the money go towards eradicating low pay."The Press Association quotes Mark Thompson as telling staff "A strategic contingency exercise, led by a senior group of managers, has been looking at what additional funds are needed should we need to put aside additional funds to cover our current estimate of the financial risks we face... We need to be in as strong a position as possible if we are to deliver distinctive content and meet our key strategic projects, such as moving to the new Broadcasting House, moving network production to the nations and funding our broadband future."The pay freeze will not affect the Corporation's highest paid on-air talent, who are on individual contracts.The BBC announced on Monday a trial of their new Interactive Media Player (iMP).  Five thousand participants from across the U.K. were selected for this trial. Participants in the trial will be able to download selected BBC television and radio programmes.  Approximately 190 hours of TV shows, 310 hours of radio programmes, and some feature films and local programming are to be made available for download.  Ashley Highfield is the BBC's director of new media and technology.  Highfield has said that this program "Could just be the iTunes for the broadcast industry, enabling our audience to access our TV and radio programmes on their terms - anytime, any place, any how."The BBC is funded by a mandatory licence fee on all televisions in the U.K. The fee is £126.50 a year for colour TV and £42 a year for monochrome TV.The BBC have broadcast the first ever live episode of television soap-opera EastEnders, a fictional programme set in London, England. The show, celebrating 25 years since the broadcast of the first episode, was aired on BBC One at 8pm UTC on Friday.Over 400 camera shots were taken by thirty-six camera operators, instead of the four usually used in episodes. There were also three golf buggies to relocate actors in the midst of sets. The episode had been prepared for a total of nine months. Three days before the episode, 51 cast members took part in a read-through of the script, as well as two complete dress rehearsals. With the exception of a few minor mistakes at the start of the show by Scott Maslen, who plays the role of Jack Branning, the entire episode was broadcast without any significant problems.The main focus of the plot in the episode was the revelation as to who the murderer of character Archie Mitchell was. The plot, marketed as "Who Killed Archie?" had been running consistently in the show for several months and there had been numerous suspects. Towards the end of the programme, character Bradley Branning fell from a roof after being pursued by police officers. At this point, Stacey Slater declared to Max Branning: "I did it. I killed Archie. It was me."Ten separate possible endings for the episode had been created and rehearsed, and the identity of the killer was not known to actress Lacey Turner, who portrays Stacey, until thirty minutes before the episode broadcast. Character Ian Beale, portrayed by Adam Woodyatt, is the only remaining character that has appeared consistently in the programme since its debut in 1985.The BBC have made the decision to cancel My Family, a televised situation comedy series which airs on BBC One in the United Kingdom. Danny Cohen, who is the Controller of the television channel, stated: "Now that all the Harper children have fled the nest we feel it's time to make room for new comedies".The programme, which was created by Fred Barron, launched in September 2000. It was the first BBC Television series of this genre to make use of production methods originating from the United States, including a group of employed writers and the studio being used solely for the purposes of the sitcom during the process of production. Over one hundred episodes of the show have been created since that time.Series ten of My Family, which was broadcast in the summer of 2010, received approximately 4.6 million viewers on average. The eleventh and final series of the show is expected to be broadcast on BBC One later in 2011. Cohen has stated that Robert Lindsay and Zoë Wanamaker, who both feature in the TV show, will continue to be "part of our BBC One comedy family."Meanwhile, Cheryl Taylor, commissioning controller for comedy at the BBC, explained: "Now that almost a generation of British children have grown up with the Harper brood, played over the years by Kris Marshall, Daniela Denby-Ashe and Gabriel Thompson, we're looking to the future with new families and new comedies that we hope will prove equally popular." Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, actor Robert Lindsay explained how he was "amazed by the public's love for the series." "When Kris Marshall left in 2005 I was convinced that was it. But somehow Zoe and I have kept the essence of it together," he said.In response to the announcement of the cancellation of My Family, English actress Miranda Hart made comments about the story in an audio clip available on BBC News Online. "After 10-11 years, it's not a slight to be taken off-air. It's an amazing achievement and I think it's done a lot for studio audience sitcoms," she said. "It became a bit 'uncool', for one to address a word, but I always stood by it. [...] Having that many viewers says it all, really. [...] I think it's amazing what they achieved." Hart thought that the show will be remembered "[p]robably with Robert and Zoë. You know, they put a lot of work in and they did fantastic performances, you know, that really endeared the nation to them," describing Lindsay and Wanamaker as "great comedy actors."Director-General of the BBC George Entwistle resigned yesterday. Mr Entwistle earlier in the day said he would stay on as Director-General but yesterday evening he said he was doing the "honourable thing" by stepping down. Earlier this week, flagship BBC investigative programme Newsnight was embroiled in controversy as it was revealed the programme had wrongly implied former Conservative chairman Lord McAlpine had been involved in child abuse at a children's home in Wales. Steve Messham said the man he had identified as abusing him in the 1970s  at Bryn Estyn children's home was not Lord McAlpine.Although Newsnight did not name Lord McAlpine by name, the programme did allege a former Conservative figure had been involved in child abuse. Allegations then surfaced on the Internet about Lord McAlpine.Mr Entwistle said earlier yesterday that the film should not have been broadcast. In the evening, Mr Entwistle, who started his post on September 17, said in a statement outside Broadcasting House, "In the light of the fact that the director general is also the editor in chief and ultimately responsible for all content, and in the light of the unacceptable journalistic standards of the Newsnight film broadcast on Friday 2 November, I have decided that the honourable thing to do is to step down from the post of director general."He added that "the wholly exceptional events of the past few weeks have led me to conclude that the BBC should appoint a new leader".  He said it had been a "great honour" to lead the BBC. He continued: "While there is understandable public concern over a number of issues well covered in the media — which I'm confident will be addressed by the review process — we must not lose sight of the fact that the BBC is full of people of the greatest talent and the highest integrity."Chairman of the BBC Trust Lord Patten said: "This is undoubtedly one of the saddest evenings of my public life. ... At the heart of the BBC is its role as a trusted global news organisation."The BBC announced BBC Worldwide chief executive Tim Davie would become acting Director-General.Chris Moyles and David 'Comedy Dave' Vitty have broken a Guinness World Record by hosting a marathon programme on UK national station BBC Radio 1. The aim was to raise money for British charity Comic Relief.The programme started at 0630 UTC on Wednesday, being broadcasting live on the station's website and an interactive red button service available via digital television. On Thursday, Chris and Dave managed to surpass the record for the longest continuous broadcast by a presenter on BBC Radio 1. The record had been previously held by Simon Mayo, who had achieved thirty-seven hours in 1999.Moyles and Comedy Dave continued to broadcast on the station and subsequently overtook the "Radio DJ Endurance Marathon (Team)" Guinness World Record at 0830 UTC yesterday. At this stage, Moyles announced on-air "we're gonna do another two hours. Why? I have absolutely no idea." A Guinness World Record certificate was presented to Moyles and Vitty by British musician Gary Barlow of Take That. The show ended at 1030 UTC yesterday after fifty-two hours.The total donated by listeners was £2,406,648. (US$3,906,711, €2,754,697).Moyles said of his record "[w]e’ve been overwhelmed by the support we’ve received from our listeners. It’s been a rollercoaster ride of fun, laughs, tears and downright silliness. Now I’m off for a massive sleep!" Dave Vitty explained that "[w]e're both losing our voices and we’ve literally limped through the last few hours to the finish line but it’s all been worth it when we saw that final figure! Our listeners are incredible."BBC Radio 1 Controller Andy Parfitt is "deeply proud of what they have achieved on many fronts – the amazing total raised, brilliant, high quality radio broadcasting throughout and some of the funniest and most inventive TV I’ve seen. I’ve also been knocked out by everyone’s support including the extraordinary generosity of Radio 1's audience; I want to thank them on behalf of Comic Relief and the BBC."The staff of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) have entered a one-day strike this morning in dispute of impending job cuts and partial privatisation.The industrial action follows union ballots at three of the leaders of journalism and broadcasting: Amicus, National Union of Jounalists and BECTU. The NUJ have already described the action as an "astonishing success" and its general secretary, Jeremy Dear, describes the union as "absolutely delighted with the level of support we have received for the strike." The unions expect 11,000 of 27,000 BBC staff to take part in the strikes.Due to the extensiveness of the strike it has affected the output of the BBC on its television and radio services. News and live services have been particularly badly affected following the unions aims to leave "blank screens and dead air".BBC Radio 4's Today, The World at One, PM and The World Tonight have all been cancelled; BBC One's 1 O'Clock News and 6 O'Clock News was shortened from half an hour to 15 minutes, although the 10 O'Clock News was unaffected. Live programming of BBC News 24, BBC World and Five Live have been extensively cut; and international output on the World Service has been impacted. The most noticeable impact have been on the Breakfast programme, headed by just one presenter (against the usual two) and cut short for a pre-recorded interview. The leading serious news magazine programme, Newsnight, was also cancelled.Some BBC radio celebrities appeared for work on their shows despite the strike. These include breakfast radio presenters Chris Moyles of BBC Radio 1, Terry Wogan of BBC Radio 2, and Shelagh Fogarty of BBC Radio 5.Unlike a similar 1989 strike in which presenter Nicholas Witchell crossed the pickets to read news, those presenters who have decided to continue their positions have not been publicly denounced.Striking staff have been picketing outside the main entrances of the BBC Television Centre in west London.The strikes have occurred following the Corporation's plans to cut 3780 jobs and privatise parts of the national service. It has claimed that these cuts are necessary to spend more on programming when they were announced in March by governing director Mark Thompson. The cuts aim to make savings of GBP 355 million (US$663.37 million, EUR 487 million ).Unions have defied calls by BBC executives to partake in consultations over impending actions. The unions have responded by claiming that consultations would give their staff little say and that negotiations are the only way in which they will be listened to.The ballot to strike which was held on May 12 also determined to strike for 48 hours on May 31 and June 1. It is unclear if any further action is planned.The veteran BBC Foreign Affairs correspondent Brian Hanrahan has died at the age of 61. His death, announced by the BBC on Monday morning, came just a few months after he was diagnosed with cancer.During his career with the BBC, Hanrahan had travelled almost the whole of the world, covering such news events as the assassination of the Indian Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi, the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, the massacre by Chinese troops in Tienanmen Square, Beijing, and the coming to power of Mikhail Gorbachev and the subsequent rise of the "Glasnost" era in Russia.But it is for his coverage of the Falklands War that Hanrahan will be best remembered, and his famous quote while on board an aircraft carrier, watching Harrier Jump Jets taking off and landing, that he "counted them all out, and I counted them all back."In 2001, Hanrahan travelled to the United States to anchor a series of special programmes concerning the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre.Hanrahan also covered some of the more sombre events in recent British history, providing commentary and coverage with BBC News of the deaths and subsequent funerals of both Diana Princess of Wales, and Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother.Commenting upon the news, BBC Director General Mark Thompson said: "Brian was a journalist of unimpeachable integrity and outstanding judgement, but his personal kindness and humanity also came through. That is why audiences and everyone who knew him here will miss him very much." The Deputy Director General of Journalism at the BBC, Mark Byford, described Hanrahan as "one of the BBC's greatest journalists", adding: "His work covering the Falklands War produced some of the most memorable war reporting of the last 50 years. His great craft of using words sparingly but powerfully is a lasting memory for me. A beautiful writer, a beautiful man, whose passion for the BBC and for high standards in journalism inspired us all. All Brian's friends and colleagues across BBC News offer their sympathies to his family today and salute one of the giants of broadcast journalism."With little ceremony, one of the most innovative and radical new media projects in decades, the Creative Archive was officially launched today by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC).In partnership with the Open University, Channel 4, British Film Institute and Creative Commons, the Creative Archive will allow UK residents access to selected items from the archives of British public service radio and television broadcasting.The Archive has been in pre-development stages for several years, and today's official launch saw the creation of the Creative Archive website and the Creative Archive License, a special copyright license developed with Oxford University and the Creative Commons project.  Under the license British citizens will be able to download and modify clips from the archive without having to pay royalties.Over the summer, the BBC will be releasing archives of documentaries, particularly from its acclaimed Natural History collection, under the Creative Archive License, while Channel 4 has commissioned a special selection of programmes which will not be broadcast, but will be available on the internet.  The BFI will be releasing silent movies from the early 20th century on the Creative Archive.Other organisations expressing an interest in the Creative Archive include Teachers' TV, the Natural History Museum and Independent Television News.A BBC newsreader has lost his job after he was found guilty of unlawful wounding of a teenager. Ashley Blake, 40, who presented Midlands Today, attacked Greg Jones, 17, with a wooden pole outside a bar in Birmingham in January. Jones received injuries to his lip and chin.The trial took place at Birmingham Crown Court and concluded on August 3. The presenter, who was arrested at the scene, denied the attack and claimed he used the pole to protect himself from bottles being thrown at him by up to thirty people. Blake was also convicted of attempting to pervert the course of justice. The judge told Blake it was "almost inevitable" he was going to be sent to jail.A BBC spokesman released a statement that said, "Ashley Blake was found guilty last week of two serious charges. An internal process has resulted in Ashley's dismissal which is effective immediately."After the conviction, Blake spoke to reporters, saying, "[I am] just gutted, absolutely gutted ... it's all over, isn't it? My job — everything." Blake is scheduled to be sentenced on September 2.Satellite Information Services Limited (SIS), the racecourse television company part-owned by William Hill (19%) and Ladbrokes (23%), has been named by the BBC as the preferred bidder for its Outside Broadcasts division, one of three active businesses within BBC Resources Ltd. Other SIS shareholders include, Thales (Racal) (23%), United Business Media (19%), Racecourse Association (10%) and the Tote (6% - all figures rounded).SIS Chief Executive David Holdgate would not comment on the terms of the deal, thought to be between £20m and £50m, but said it would be "an ideal acquisition for SIS" and "a perfect fit with our existing SISLink and sports coverage". The company has long-term contracts with other leading broadcasters, such as Sky and ITV and provides satellite links for live sport and news.In a statement, the BBC said that it intended to exchange contracts and transfer the Outside Broadcasts business and around 300 staff in the near future, with Andrew Thornton, BBC project director for the sale of the division, saying that "SIS offered the BBC a good deal and best value for licence fee payers". Mark Tugwell, Director, BBC Outside Broadcasts, added "it's time for our business to flourish under new ownership, without the constraints of BBC ownership".The transfer would mean that SIS will be covering major sporting events including the Beijing Olympics for the BBC in August 2008.The British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) looks tonight to be resigned to losing its flagship radio and television news, politics and current affairs broadcasting.Staff at the technicians' union BECTU, the manual workers' union Amicus and the National Union of Journalists (NUJ) are taking part in a one day strike in protest to the 4,000 job cuts announced earlier this year.The job cuts amount to almost 20% of the BBC's workforce and are part of a £355 million cost-cutting move by the new Director General Mark Thompson, which unions say will compromise the quality of the BBC's output.On Thursday the BBC were forced to concede that BBC TWO's flagship current affairs show Newsnight would fall casualty to the strike after presenter Jeremy Paxman said he would not cross the picket line.Radio 4's four main current affairs programmes, The Today Programme, The World At One, PM and The World Tonight are expected to be replaced with short news bulletins and pre-recorded material.  Other shows which are usually live are expected to be pre-recorded or produced by management.Television news bulletins are expected to be shortened and will not contain their usual high-tech graphics.  The rolling news channel BBC News 24 has prepared to air 50% pre-recorded material tomorrow, and rolling news radio station Five Live has also pre-recorded some shows.Coverage of the Chelsea Flower Show on BBC ONE and BBC TWO which begins tomorrow is likely to be affected.It is unclear how hard BBC News Online and the World Service will be hit, and how many of the BBC's field journalists will break the strike.A 48 hour strike is scheduled for the 31st of May and 1st of June, and further strikes will be announced if talks do not advance, though the strikes have so far avoided clashing with major outside broadcasts such as Saturday's FA Cup final.Gerry Morrisey of BECTU says that "Staff are keen to take part in action to leave director general Mark Thompson in no doubt that he is out of touch," and the NUJ secretary Jeremy Dear predicted major disruption.BBC Radio 1 bosses have today reversed their decision to censor the word "faggot" from the 20 year old Fairytale of New York song by The Pogues. The initial censoring of the song caused controversy recently as the song had been played for 20 years without censoring, and resulted in many people contacting the BBC saying the decision was "ridiculous". The ban was also ridiculed for the fact that it only applied to Radio 1 and not to Radio 2 or any other station on the BBC network.The Radio 1 management made the initial decision saying "We are playing an edited version because some members of the audience might find it offensive" and thus the word faggot was disguised from "you scumbag, you maggot, you cheap lousy faggot". The word "slut" from the line "you're an old slut on junk" was also censored.A further meeting was held today in which the management decided to stick by their initial decision, however at around 18.00 (UTC) a breaking news bulletin, from Andy Parfitt the controller of Radio 1, was read out during the Scott Mills show, saying that the decision was "wrong" and that the full song would be played un-edited in future.A United Kingdom radio presenter with the BBC was fired on Saturday, and replaced, after an allegedly racist off-air phone call. Sam Mason of BBC Radio Bristol had earlier called up a taxi firm to arrange a booking for her 14-year-old daughter.Mason asked the operator not to send an Asian cab driver. She said, "A guy with a turban on is going to freak her out." After the operator refused Mason snapped back claiming, "You’ve managed it before."The original female operator had passed the call over to another operator. Mason then accused the first of having "a bad attitude", and said, "I work at the BBC. I’m far from racist and that uneducated woman has no right to call me one." The call then ended but she called back to complain.The female operator who took the call was also fired from her job for illegally recording the call.A statement from the taxi firm stated that "We confirm that a telephone call from Radio Bristol presenter Sam Mason to the company was illegally recorded by an employee. That employee was dismissed for similar offences on 3 November." A copy of the call was sent to British tabloid The Sun, which broke the story on Tuesday. The Sun informed the BBC.A BBC spokesman said: "Although Sam Mason's remarks were not made on-air, her comments were completely unacceptable and, for that reason, she has been informed that she will no longer be working for the BBC with immediate effect."According to BBC News, Mason, who worked at the station for only six weeks, was unavailable for comment.The incident comes just weeks after the Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross prank call scandal involving Fawlty Towers actor Andrew Sachs.The BBC has received 487 complaints after Strictly Come Dancing professional dancer Anton du Beke used a racist remark for his dance partner. Actress contestant Laila Rouass, who is of Morrocan descent, was called a "paki" by her dance partner during rehearsals for the show. British tabloid News of the World revealed the information from the BBC One programme in their newspaper on Sunday.By Monday, it had emerged that there had been 63 complaints to the corporation. Since Thursday, the racist comment by du Beke has caused a total of 487 complaints to the BBC. Du Beke has since apologised to Rouass for the comment.Bruce Forsyth, who presents the show alongside Tess Daly, had an unscheduled interview with radio show TalkSport on Wednesday. During the interview he said that, in days gone by, the remark would not have been treated so seriously. He said: "You go back 25, 30, 40 years and there has always been a bit of humour about the whole thing. "Americans used to call us 'limeys' which doesn't sound very nice, but we used to laugh about it. Everybody has a nickname," Forsyth stated to the BBC Radio 5 Live show. "I'm sure there was nothing vindictive about what he [Anton du Beke] said...the page should be closed on it. It's a damn shame and I feel for him and Laila, she's a lovely girl. He is a lovely, sensitive guy. OK, he can be a bit mouthy and can say quick things off-the-cuff like I do. But when you're like that you can slip up every now and again. You can say something that you don't mean." As a result of the comments made by Bruce Forsyth, the Victoria Derbyshire show received a record 600 complaints from listeners. Afterwards, Forsyth apologised for the comments he made on the show, and released a statement on Thursday saying: "To be absolutely clear, the use of racially offensive language is never either funny or acceptable." A spokesperson for the BBC has also said: "The BBC does not condone offensive language in the workplace. Anton du Beke has apologised to Laila, who has accepted his apology."Kulvinder Ghir, an actor from Asia, showed his dissatisfaction for what was said on the radio show, stating: "Claiming the word paki is harmless is just ignorance."There has been calls made from viewers to the BBC over the last few days to dismiss Anton du Beke from Strictly Come Dancing. Earlier this year, former The One Show presenter Carol Thatcher was dismissed from ITV1 reality TV show I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here! due to racist remarks she made while on the programme. Despite this incident, the BBC have decided not to sack Anton du Beke from the BBC One dancing show.The BBC has now had 686 complaints since Friday, an increase of 199 complaints from Thursday.Some 8,400 complaints have been made to the BBC and 374 complaints have been received by Ofcom, a British media regulator, after soap opera EastEnders broadcasted what BBC News Online described as the "cot death storyline".The storyline involves character Ronnie Branning – portrayed by Samantha Womack – taking her baby, who experienced sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), and exchanging for another living baby, Alfie and Kat Moon's recently born son. The plot has caused the largest number of complaints to be made about the show since it was first broadcast in 1985.Campaigners attempting to raise awareness of SIDS criticised the plot. Anne Diamond, a television presenter and one of those campaigners, remarked that the exchange of the babies was a "crass twist to an otherwise credible storyline" and said that not "one iota of good in educating a young audience about cot death" had been achieved by it.Due to the complaints received, the BBC have made the decision to end this storyline earlier than originally scheduled, during the spring of 2011. Bryan Kirkwood, the current executive producer of EastEnders, has disclosed that, at the end of this storyline, the baby, named Tommy, will remeet Kat Moon, his mother. Kirkwood said that this storyline, like many others in the BBC One programme, approaches "social issues in a powerful and dramatic way". He also explained: "Although we have had complaints we have also had positive responses from people who have been through the experiences we are currently dramatising who feel we've done this and have contacted us to offer their backing."Whenever we embark on a story at EastEnders we always leave it open-ended to monitor and listen to audience reaction," he continued. "With this in mind we are going to bring the story to a close on screen in the spring. As the story progresses and Kat is reunited with her child, we hope to explore the impact of the tragic events that have befallen the characters in a way that is powerful, but true to the best public service tradition of the show."Justine Roberts, the chief executive officer and founder of British community website Mumsnet, created a letter of complaint for Mark Thompson, Director-General of the BBC. "The focus of the complaint is the swapping story line," the letter reads. "Our members are concerned that, as is all too common, a bereaved mother has been portrayed as deranged and unhinged." In response to the Mumsnet letter, Jana Bennett, director of vision at the BBC, stated that this plot was managed in a manner that was "sensitively handled". She stressed that "[t]he show is absolutely not suggesting that this behaviour is typical of a mother who has suffered such a terrible and tragic loss."Taking Kat's baby is the action of a character in great distress due to a series of events that have befallen her in the last 18 months," Bennett explained. "It is the culmination of these that has driven her to this one moment of madness rather than as a direct result of the loss of her baby. The issues of grief caused by the loss of a child and sudden infant death syndrome more generally are sensitively handled. EastEnders has a long history of tackling difficult issues in a way that allows viewers to learn and debate the topic at hand."On Thursday, Samantha Womack denied that this storyline was the reason for her leaving the programme. She has mentioned that her departure had already been arranged with producers of the programme for a few months.Before this incident occurred, the record for the highest number of complaints for EastEnders was a storyline in April 2009 that involved Danielle Jones being killed as the result of a car collision. That storyline received in excess of 7,000 complaints.The sale of the BBC subsidiary BBC Resources Ltd., has hit a hurdle after it emerged that the BBC could be left with a loss of up to £15 million on the deal.  The cost of transferring the pensions of BBC Resources staff from the BBC pension scheme to its new owners could be up to £50 million according to a Guardian Newspaper report.Managers from the division will meet with union representatives from BECTU on Monday to discuss this and related sale issues. BECTU general secretary, Gerry Morrissey is quoted as saying: "If the BBC gets less than £50 million for BBC Resources then how can it fulfil [sic] its duty of care to licence fee payers?"It is believed that the BBC had hoped that a surplus in its pension fund could be used to bridge the possible £50 million gap — but the trustees of the fund have said "no". A BBC source said: "This is being discussed at the highest level".Since April 2004 members of the BBC pension scheme have seen their contributions into it increase regularly, the BBC — like many other employers — having reduced its contribution (to 4.5% of payroll) over a ten year period when the stock market was booming in the 1990s.The Guardian is seen as a reliable source on BBC matters, having reported the proposed sale of BBC Television Centre back in January 2007, with the formal announcement finally being made by BBC Director General Mark Thompson on October 18, 2007.Newspaper The Guardian reports today that the sale of the BBC subsidiary BBC Resources Ltd., has cost £3.4m in consultancy fees — over £1m more than the £2.3m trading profit the commercial division is estimated to have made for the last financial year.  Details of the failed privatisation were released by the BBC following a freedom of information request, and prior to publication of its annual report on July 8.Fourteen months after advisers were appointed to try to sell BBC Resources Ltd., only one of the three main business units has been sold — its Outside Broadcast division to Satellite Information Services Limited (SIS), for an estimated £20m. On March 7, 2008 it was also announced that the studios operation would remain in BBC ownership and in early June, the fate of the third business was put on hold with the BBC stating that "like Studios, Post Production will remain within BBC Resources, which will continue to operate as a wholly-owned commercial subsidiary of the BBC."BBC Resources Ltd. made an operating profit of £6.1m for 2005-06, down from £7.4m the year before, with the BBC accounting for 83.3% of its turnover, down from 87.4% for 2004-05. Last year's published figure for 2006-07 was £5.2 million — with BBC business at 80% of turnover.BECTU Assistant General Secretary Luke Crawley is quoted as saying: "It's fairly outrageous that around half the profit of the company [announced last year] has been spent trying to sell it. It's an inordinate amount of money. The BBC was promised big returns if it sold BBC Resources but it's only managed to sell outside broadcasts and we do not know how much it made out of that. We think the £3.4m is a poor investment."A song released yesterday in support of the BBC is making an impact on several UK music charts.Stand-up comic Mitch Benn wrote I'm Proud of the BBC in response to the criticism the licence fee-funded corporation has received from its commercial competitors and the right-wing press. The Conservative-led coalition government announced two weeks ago that the licence fee is to be frozen for six years, and that the BBC will take over responsibility from the Foreign Office for funding the World Service. The song, loosely inspired by Billy Joel, lists many of the BBC's achievements. Benn, a regular on BBC Radio 4's satirical programme The Now Show, decided to release I'm Proud of the BBC as a single after realising that it was provoking emotional responses from audiences during his nationwide tour. He told BBC Radio 5 Live that the song was receiving standing ovations, and people were wiping away tears. A video was filmed last month outside of Broadcasting House, White City and Television Centre with a cast of volunteers recruited from the social networking site Twitter.The song was officially released as a 'download-only' track on Monday. Yesterday's charts reveal that it has reached pole position on Amazon's rock chart, and is listed as the 14th most downloaded track overall. iTunes listed it as the 64th most downloaded song. Fans have created two Facebook groups to promote the single in an attempt to get it to a good position in the UK Singles Chart, which would force the BBC's commercial rivals to play the track.Benn says that he has always been a supporter of the BBC, and yesterday compared it to the emergency services. "You also pay for the Fire Brigade, whether or not your house burns down. Public service." He points out that he only receives a small percentage of his income from the corporation; last night he played with his band The Distractions at the Bloomsbury Theatre in London.Jeremy Clarkson, one of the presenters on the BBC's motoring programme 'Top Gear' has been suspended by the corporation. Clarkson, responsible for several prior controversies, was suspended Tuesday, after allegedly 'punching' a producer last week. The next two episodes of 'Top Gear' have been pulled from broadcast, with a third — the season finale — also unlikely to be shown.The incident leading to Clarkson's suspension reportedly occurred after an argument with a producer. After filming had finished in Newcastle, it is believed Clarkson, 54 punched 36-year-old producer Oisin Tymon over a lack of catering availability. The incident was reported to the BBC on Monday. A source spoke to the British newspaper The Daily Mirror about the incident. They said, "They came to the end of filming after a long day and Jeremy discovered that no food had been laid on. He just saw red and hit the assistant producer, who he blamed for not having organised the food. He snapped." However a source close to the suspended presenter defended him saying "he didn't punch anyone". The BBC released a short statement clarifying the situation. It said "Following a fracas with a BBC producer, Jeremy Clarkson has been suspended pending an investigation. No one else has been suspended. Top Gear will not be broadcast this Sunday. The BBC will be making no further comment at this time." Previously Clarkson had been given a "final warning" by BBC bosses over comments he had made. In 2014 it appeared that the presenter used a racist term while singing a nursery rhyme, he apologised after the incident came to light. He also caused offence with comments he made about India and Mexico as well as comments about people with special needs.'Top Gear' is a motoring programme shown on BBC Two in the United Kingdom. Clarkson has presented the show since 2002, co-hosting alongside Richard Hammond and James May. He is one of the BBC's highest paid stars.The BBC Television Centre has been placed up for sale by the corporation. Plans to sell the centre originally came forward in 2007 but the BBC only appointed Lambert Smith Hampton, a commercial property consultant, in November of last year. The building which is based in Shepherds Bush, London was opened in 1960 and is the home of BBC News and BBC Vision.The BBC stated they were interested in preserving parts of the building while setting up a "hub for creative businesses and a visitor destination."  According to the head of BBC Workplace, Chris Kane, "With high investor demand for commercial property in London and a shortage of landmark sites as distinctive as Television Centre, we anticipate strong competition for both conventional and innovative proposals."The property has been valued between £150 million to £300 million but is expected to fetch around £200 million.5000 staff are currently based at the centre which BBC bosses hope to be empty by 2015. The BBC is creating a new development in Salford, Greater Manchester. Several departments including BBC Sport, BBC Breakfast, and children's shows are moving to Salford while BBC News is being relocated within central London.File:Bbcr2electricpromslogo.jpgThe BBC have announced they are to axe annual music festival Electric Proms from their schedule for financial reasons. The festival first took place in October 2006. The 2011 event will not go ahead, with last year's festival being the last.Bob Shennan, controller of BBC Radio 2, said he was "disappointed" with the decision to cancel the festival. He said "In the current climate, we are faced with making difficult decisions, including how best to deliver high-quality live music programming throughout the year in light of continuing efficiency savings. I feel that Radio 2 can achieve the same impact of the Electric Proms in an alternative, more cost-effective way. I'm disappointed that the lifetime of Electric Proms has come to an end, but very proud of its fantastically rewarding run of creating new moments in music for the past five years."During the festival's five year run it has featured performances from stars such as Elton John, Neil Diamond, and Shirley Bassey.The decision to axe the festival comes at a time when the BBC are planning a 20% savings cut. Last week BBC director general Mark Thompson announced 650 job losses after dropping five languages from the BBC World Service.The BBC are going to release their iPlayer to other broadcasters around the UK.Eric Huggers, Director of Future Media and Technology at the BBC, announced that the BBC iPlayer would be opening up to third-party broadcasters. He made the announcement at the IBC 2009 conference in Amsterdam, Netherlands. He said that the broadcaster would be willing to accept outside content. The sharing of technology with other broadcasters means that ITV and Channel 4 shows could be featured with the same technology. This would mean that British viewers would get the chance to watch shows like popular singing competition show The X Factor and long-running soap-opera Coronation Street.Huggers explained: "The concept of opening up our investment and technology infrastructure, user experience and design is central for us in helping other broadcasters achieve their goals of continuing to have a direct relationship with users rather than being disintermediated by third-party aggregators. The iPlayer isn't something you can stick on a DVD, install and run. We can offer other free-to-air broadcasters a chance to share in our investment and get into on-demand."Huggers also said: “It is about making sure each of the broadcasters around the world can continue to have a direct relationship with their users. The investments are going to be made available to public and private companies so that they don’t have to invent the iPlayer or look at how to deliver free-to-air."The corporation's governing body have yet to approve the proposals made for the "open iPlayer".The BBC today unveiled it's plans for a new iMP player with which people in the UK will be able to download any BBC tv or radio programme for a week after it has been broadcast in the UK. These downloads will have a limited life, becoming inactive a week after the show has been shown live in the UK. The  BBC are justifying their proposed decision to restrict the use of the new player to those using a UK Internet service provider on the basis that it is only UK citizens who pay the television licence. In the UK it is illegal to use a television to receive UK broadcasts without a television licence, but no such restrictions are in place for using either a radio or a computer. It is the money from the licence fee that funds the BBC. At the moment it is possible to listen to live BBC radio, and to some old programmes for a week, as well as some news output, including Newsnight, by Streaming media through the internet, and this service is available in every part of the world. At the moment there are few sites whose availability is restricted depending on where one is geographically located. Some countries such as Iran and China restrict what the users in it's country can view on the internet, but till now almost all of the material that has been released has been made available all over the world. The iMP is still not ready, and while the BBC are hoping to release it this year they are refusing to make any promises. Clearly having the technology in place to ensure that the downloads deactivate at a given moment, and that people outside the UK cannot access these downloads, either directly through  the internet, or indirectly through file sharing, is going to take a little while yet.The BBC has confirmed that its famous Top of the Pops music programme is to be axed this summer, after Media Guardian broke the news. The programme began on New Year's Day in 1964 and has featured most of the top bands and artists ever since.The last show will be on July 30, 2006.The Controller of BBC Two, Roly Keating, said "I've really enjoyed the last year that Top of the Pops has transmitted on BBC Two and the team did a sterling job in revitalising the format for our audience, but we all recognise that the time has come to move on."Comments made about Olympics swimmer Rebecca Adlington on British television programme Mock the Week "breached guidelines", the BBC Trust has said. Scottish comedian Frankie Boyle, at the time a panelist on the satirical gameshow, made the comments about the swimmer.  The episode the comments featured on was originally broadcast in August 2008 on BBC Two.  The episode caused a total of 75 complaints to be made to the BBC.  The producer then apologised four months later, saying, "[t]he ribbing may have gone a tad too far on this occasion."Now the BBC Trust has said that the comments "breached guidelines".  They commented that the jokes "risked offending the audience" and were "humiliating".  Speaking about the comments, BBC Trustee Richard Tait made a statement saying: "For Mock the Week, the [Trust's Editorial Standards] committee felt that the comments about Rebecca were humiliating, and this was exacerbated by the fact that she had not sought celebrity status or courted media attention.  There was no clear editorial purpose for the joke's inclusion."Boyle's specific comments were quoted in The Daily Telegraph and were as follows: "The thing that nobody really said about Rebecca Adlington is that she looks pretty weird. She looks like someone who's looking at themselves in the back of a spoon...When she arrived back on the flight [from Beijing] she met her boyfriend. Did you see her boyfriend? He was really attractive. He was like a male model. So from that I have deduced that Rebecca Adlington is very dirty." This information came through seventeen days after the BBC announced that Frankie Boyle would be leaving the panel of the show after being a regular panellist since the show started in June 2005 due to "other television commitments". The show had been running for seven series, and will continue to run for another two seasons, despite his absence. A spokesperson for Mock the Week had said that he had been "a brilliant member of the team" and that "the door is always open for him to come back".The BBC's political debate show Question Time aired a special edition from Shanghai yesterday. This was the first time that a political show from the West was made in China. The show was broadcast on BBC One and BBC World; however, it wasn't shown in China, as a condition of the programme amid fears that it would be inflammatory and present negative views of the government.The panel contained the Chinese politician Liu Jianchao,who is the Chinese foreign ministry spokesman and Long Yongtu who is  General Secretary for the Boao Forum for Asia, together with Chris Patten, the last Governor of Hong Kong, Isobel Hilton, a writer who has a large knowledge of China & David Tang, fashion designer.The audience contained a mixture of Chinese and Westerners together with people invited by the government. The questions concerned, among other things, the next chief-executive of Hong Kong, China's attitudes toward Taiwan, whether China has growing problems concerning spoilt children, the growing human rights question, and whether China will economically overtake America in 20 years time.Many members of the audience liked the show and hoped a similar show will be broadcast in China, in a few years time. The program, which was part of a week-long BBC focus on China, was hailed as a sign that China was becoming more liberal and accommodating to Western media presence and involvement in China.BBC television programme Strictly Come Dancing is to be broadcast from the Blackpool Tower in the county of Lancashire in England. The ballroom in the famous tower, which is located in the city of Blackpool, is where the show will be broadcast from on Saturday night on BBC One.  The show was previously broadcast from there in 2004, at the end of series two.  There are currently nine couples remaining in the current series.  All of the celebrities — including actor Craig Kelly, actresses Laila Rouass and Ali Bastian — arrived in the city of Blackpool on Wednesday.Speaking to Manchester Evening News journalist Dianne Bourne, actor Craig Kelly said: "A few of them [the contestants] have asked whether I'll show them around, and of course if we get time I'm happy to take everyone sightseeing. We've got a dress rehearsal on Friday night, but if we get any time off, I'm sure I can show them a good time in Blackpool."I can't believe I'm there, it hasn't sunk in yet. It will hit me once I get inside the ballroom. It's going to be so much fun, and I'm going to go out there and give it my all. The pressure is off for me now because I've achieved my main goal to get to Blackpool. Anything from here is a bonus."The programme, popular in the United Kingdom, has been exported around the world under the title "Dancing with the Stars."An investigation by the BBC has revealed that millions of dollars in famine relief aid money, including the money raised from the charity supergroup Band Aid and the Live Aid concert held by Bob Geldof, was "siphoned off" by Ethiopian rebels to buy weapons.  One rebel said that at least US$ 95 million (£63 million) from — Western governments and private charities — was diverted into rebel coffers. This was also noted in a declassified Central Intelligence Agency assessment of the famine situation titled Ethiopia: Political and Security Impact of the Drought, in which the report states, "Some funds that insurgent organizations are raising for relief operations, as a result of increased world publicity, are almost certainly being diverted for military purposes." During the 1984–1985 famine, Ethiopia was fighting Eritrean and Tigray rebels in those two northern provinces, although Eritrea has since gained its independence. Since the countryside was out of the government's control, aid was brought in from neighboring Sudan. Some aid came in the form of food, while other aid came as cash which would be used by the aid agencies to buy grain from Ethiopian farmers.Rebels would disguise themselves as traders and merchants to get their hands on the currency. "I was given clothes to make me look like a Muslim merchant. This was a trick for the NGOs," said Gebremedhin Araya, a senior member of the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF).One such aid worker that brought the grain was Max Peberdy, who worked for the charity Christian Aid. Peberdy is seen in a photo with Araya buying grain. Araya said that only some of the sacks were filled with grain; the rest were filled with sand.  The transaction was overseen by a member of the Relief Society of Tigray (REST), the humanitarian wing of the TPLF.  The money was then given to TPLF leaders, including chairman Meles Zenawi, who has been Prime Minister of Ethiopia since 1991.  Zenawi has not commented on the allegations.Peberdy disputes the claims that he was duped, saying, "As far as we were concerned and as far as we were told by REST, the people we were dealing with were merchants."  He added, "It's 25 years since this happened, and in the 25 years it's the first time anybody has claimed such a thing."However, an exiled TPLF commander who lives in the Netherlands, Aregawi Berhe, is backing Araya's story.  He said the group got their hands on over US$100 million (£66 million) of which 95% went to buy weapons and build up a hardliner Marxist party inside the rebel movement.  The remaining five percent would go to famine victims.  Berhe told the BBC that the group would put on a "drama" to get the money.  Berhe said, "The aid workers were fooled."In response to the allegations, the charity Christian Aid issued a statement saying, "There are allegations in the story which are against all of Christian Aid's principles and our initial investigations do not correspond to the BBC's version of events."Nick Guttmann, who is director of emergency relief operations for the group, says the "story has to be put into context".  "We were working in a major conflict, there was a massive famine and people on all sides were suffering," Guttmann said, adding, "Both the rebels and the government were using innocent civilians to further their own political ends." Bob Geldof, the Irish rock star who help organized Live Aid, said, "We are talking about a disgruntled, exiled general.  The essence of the report also is not just about Live Aid.  It's that all monies going into Tigray — that would be Oxfam, Save the Children, UNICEF and Christian Aid — somehow, we were all duped and gulled.  And that's simply not the case.  It just didn't happen."Torture proliferates American headlines today: whether its use is defensible in certain contexts and the morality of the practice.  Wikinews reporter David Shankbone was curious about torture in American popular culture.  This is the first of a two part series examining the BDSM business.  This interview focuses on the owners of a dungeon, what they charge, what the clients are like and how they handle their needs.When Shankbone rings the bell of "HC & Co." he has no idea what to expect.  A BDSM (Bondage Discipline Sadism Masochism) dungeon is a legal enterprise in New York City, and there are more than a few businesses that cater to a clientèle that wants an enema, a spanking, to be dressed like a baby or to wear women's clothing.  Shankbone went to find out what these businesses are like, who runs them, who works at them, and who frequents them.  He spent three hours one night in what is considered one of the more upscale establishments in Manhattan, Rebecca's Hidden Chamber, where according to The Village Voice, "you can take your girlfriend or wife, and have them treated with respect—unless they hope to be treated with something other than respect!" When Shankbone arrived on the sixth floor of a midtown office building, the elevator opened up to a hallway where a smiling Rebecca greeted him.  She is a beautiful forty-ish Long Island mother of three who is dressed in smart black pants and a black turtleneck that reaches up to her blond-streaked hair pulled back in a bushy ponytail.  "Are you David Shankbone?  We're so excited to meet you!" she says, and leads him down the hall to a living room area with a sofa, a television playing an action-thriller, an open supply cabinet stocked with enema kits, and her husband Bill sitting at the computer trying to find where the re-release of Blade Runner is playing at the local theater.  "I don't like that movie," says Rebecca.Perhaps the most poignant moment came at the end of the night when Shankbone was waiting to be escorted out (to avoid running into a client).  Rebecca came into the room and sat on the sofa.  "You know, a lot of people out there would like to see me burn for what I do," she says.  Rebecca is a woman who has faced challenges in her life, and dealt with them the best she could given her circumstances.  She sees herself as providing a service to people who have needs, no matter how debauched the outside world deems them.  They sat talking mutual challenges they have faced and politics (she's supporting Hillary); Rebecca reflected upon the irony that many of the people who supported the torture at Abu Ghraib would want her closed down.  It was in this conversation that Shankbone saw that humanity can be found anywhere, including in places that appear on the surface to cater to the inhumanity some people in our society feel towards themselves, or others.  "The best way to describe it," says Bill, "is if you had a kink, and you had a wife and you had two kids, and every time you had sex with your wife it just didn't hit the nail on the head.  What would you do about it?  How would you handle it?  You might go through life feeling unfulfilled.  Or you might say, 'No, my kink is I really need to dress in women's clothing.'  We're that outlet.  We're not the evil devil out here, plucking people off the street, keeping them chained up for days on end."  Below is David Shankbone's interview with Bill & Rebecca, owners of Rebecca's Hidden Chamber, a BDSM dungeon.Whether the Civil War, World War II or the Iraq War, it can be challenging to face how conflict penetrates the psyche of a nation and surfaces in the nuances of life.  There are thousands—if not millions—of individuals who indulge in fantasies others would deem perverse that have their nascence in some of the darkest moments of human history.  It is possible someone you know pays a person to dress like a German Nazi to treat them like a “dirty Jew”, or to force them to pick cotton off the floor like a slave.  An S&M dungeon is a place where these individuals act out such taboos.  Businesses that operate to meet their needs are often hidden, but they do exist and are typically legal.  The clients want to remain confidential for fear of ostracism in their respective communities.  As Sigmund Freud wrote, "Anyone who has violated a taboo becomes taboo himself because he possesses the dangerous quality of tempting others to follow his example." Last week Wikinews published the first in a two part series on the BDSM business: an interview with Bill & Rebecca, the owners of Rebecca’s Hidden Chamber.  This week we publish the second part: an interview with three dungeon employees, Mistress Alex, Mistress Jada and Mistress Veronica.  In their world, BDSM is a game, a harmless pursuit of roleplaying exercises that satiate the desires of the tabooed.  These Dominatrixes are the kind of women men fantasize about, but they all look like they could be babysitting your children this Saturday night.  Most likely, they will not be.Mistress Alex has a distinctive sheen when David Shankbone walks into the room.  Her moist skin cools quickly from the blow of the air conditioner she stands in front of.  Just having finished an hour and a half session, she is dressed in a latex one-piece skirt and matching boots.  Mistress Jada, a shapely Latina dressed in red, joins the conversation and remains throughout.  When Alex needs to tend to a client, Mistress Veronica, who looks like she would be as comfortable teaching kindergarten as she would "tanning a man's hide", takes over for her.  The interview was neither sensational nor typical, but what you read may surprise, repulse, or even awaken feelings you never knew you had.  Below is David Shankbone's interview with three Dominatrixes.Sir George Martin and his son Giles are reported to be working on a new Beatles album, which is scheduled to be released by The Beatles' company Apple Corps through EMI Music later this year.  The album will be based on the new show by Cirque du Soleil, entitled LOVE, which will feature remixed versions of The Beatles' songs. Some observers have stated that the album, which is being put together from the original master recordings, may well be the closest thing to an original Beatles album since the legendary band's break up. The album will be released in November.The Beatles' song Hey Jude became the best-selling song of the band on iTunes, since their songs became available there earlier this week.Hey Jude was released as single by the band on August 26, 1968, and was composed and written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney. It reached number one in both the UK Singles Chart (September 11–18, 1968) and the US' Billboard Hot 100 (September 28–November 23, 1968). Hey Jude was also the number-one single of the year in the United States.According to The Daily Record, Hey Jude is followed by Twist and Shout, Let It Be and Strawberry Fields Forever in popularity, although none of the songs have reached the Top 40.The Beatles' songs had not been available previously on iTunes due to a copyright dispute with Apple Inc.The Beatles' Apple Corps has filed a lawsuit against computer and electronics maker Apple Computer in a London court this week, the third such lawsuit in a long running trademark dispute between the two companies. Apple Corps claims that Apple Computer's iTunes Music Store violates an agreement reached between the two companies in 1991, which barred Apple Computer from using the "Apple" brand in certain uses in the music business.The trial is set to begin on Wednesday in the Royal Courts of Justice, located in central London. Presiding Judge Martin Mann has stated that he owns an iPod portable music player, which is made by Apple Computer and marketed alongside the iTunes Music Store.Apple Corps has twice before sued Apple Computer over its use of the "Apple" name. The first lawsuit was settled out of court in 1981, with the young computer maker paying $80,000 and agreeing to stay out of the music business.In the late 1980's Apple Computer added audio recording abilities to its Macintosh computers, prompting Apple Corps to file suit again in 1989. That lawsuit was settled in 1991, also out of court, with Apple paying $26.5 million. The settlement included a more specific agreement over the boundaries between the two brands: Apple Computer was allowed to use its name to market "goods or services...used to reproduce, run, play or otherwise deliver such [music] content," but barred from distributing music on a physical medium such as CD or cassette.Apple Corps' latest suit, filed in September 2003, claims that the computer company violated the 1991 agreement with its iTunes Music Store, which sells digital music that can be downloaded to personal computers. A statement from Apple Computer stated that "Apple and Apple Corps now have differing interpretations of this agreement and will need to ask a court to resolve this dispute." Some observers have suggested that the wording of the 1991 agreement, which did not explicitly bar digital music distribution, could be to Apple Computer's advantage.A similar suit was filed simultaneously in California, Apple Computer's home state, but on September 21, 2004 the parties agreed to have the case heard by the UK court.Beatles songs have not been licensed for digital download on any of the online music services.Apple Corps was founded by the Beatles in 1968. Apple Computer was started by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in 1976, and launched the iTunes Music Store in 2003.David Beckham has been portrayed as a fairytale prince as part of a new promotion for Disney.The footballer took on the role of Prince Philip from Disney's Sleeping Beauty in photographs for a new advertising campaign for the company. In the specially commissioned shots, Beckham is shown in battle with a fire-breathing dragon.The pictures were taken by America's foremost celebrity photographer Annie Leibovitz, in the former England captain's current home of Spain, where he plays for football club Real Madrid.Beckham described the experience as unique, saying: "I am the Prince and I am sort of slaying a dragon which is something I've never done before, obviously, and it's a very exciting project."When I was called about it and asked to do it, I was very honoured and really looking forward to it especially with Annie doing the pictures. I think that she always takes great pictures of everybody and she's always taken great pictures of me."The portrait was taken months before Beckham signed his multi-million deal with football club LA Galaxy. It is part of an advertising campaign that will be seen across America. The publicity has added further frenzy to Beckham's high-profile arrival to the country, which is already being compared to that of the Beatles.Leibovitz believes the 31-year-old footballer will grace Hollywood with more than just sporting skills."I think he would like to act and it was sort of a stepping-stone to that and I think he would actually make a great actor. He took it very seriously and when he wielded the sword on the horse, he really was very very serious about it and I love that."Although it is not clear what else may be in the Hollywood pipeline for David and Victoria Beckham, Los Angeles and the United States seem to have already embraced the celebrity pair. Waxworks of the couple have been unveiled at Madame Tussaud's in New York, the Beckham's have launched their own perfume and they recently acquired newly-wed Hollywood stars Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes as very close friends.Fud Leclerc, who represented Belgium at the Eurovision Song Contest four times, has died at the age of 86.  Leclerc had the distinct honour of being the first person to score nul points at the 1962 contest.The singer performed at the first contest in 1956 and appeared again two years later and achieved his best result with his performance of Ma petite chatte.  After appearing for the third time at the 1960 contest he made his final appearance at the 1962 contest.  At the 1962 contest Leclerc became the first person in Eurovision history to fail to score any points, also known as Nul Points.During his career he also worked as a pianist and a songwriter. After his final Eurovision appearance he left the music industry and became a building contractor. In 2005 he made an appearance on a special programme to commemorate Eurovision.Friday, May 9, Ben Folds played at Western Connecticut State University (WCSU) in Danbury, Connecticut, United States. Wikinews was there for the concert.Billed as the main event for WCSU's annual "West Fest", the concert took place in the Feldman Arena, which is part of the O'Neill Center on the western campus of the university.The opening act for Folds was Julia Nunes, who by all accounts is on her first tour. Nunes gained attention on YouTube and got featured on the front page for her quirky, self-recorded performances.Nunes is a graduate of Fairport High School, New York and is now a college freshman. Nunes performed a half-hour set of songs, about half of which were of her own composition and the rest covers of other artists. During the first half of her set she played the ukulele and thereafter the guitar.Despite Nunes' well-received set, it was clear that the crowd was there to see Ben Folds perform. The American singer-songwriter and former frontman of the musical group Ben Folds Five is widely acclaimed for his prowess as a pianist, songwriter and performer.Ben Folds performed unaccompanied, aside from "tambourine man", a stage hand who appeared briefly during three songs. Folds told the audience that he had been nervous as this was his first solo performance in "a while."During the 100 minute concert, Ben Folds played many of his hits, including "Rockin' the Suburbs", "Annie Waits", "Still Fighting It" and "Zak and Sara".Folds also played a couple of songs that he said he wrote during a contract dispute with a record company. He wrote the songs because they were "mandatory" in his contract. According to Folds, he asked how many songs he had to write to get out of his contract. They told him, he had to write 4.6 songs to complete his obligation. Thusly, one of the songs was called, "One Down And 3.6 to Go".Near the end of the set, Ben Folds stood on his piano and directed the crowd as a choir. The audience was eager to participate in this experiment, which consisted of humming in different notes, and seemed to enjoy it. Folds seemed quite earnest in his appreciation of the audience's efforts.After the set ended, the enthusiastic crowd of mostly WCSU students started to call out for Folds to reappear. He duly acquiesced and performed a few more songs before the crowd would go home.Ben Shephard has announced his departure from GMTV, the current television breakfast programme on ITV in the United Kingdom, having been a presenter on the programme for ten years. His current contract ends in April 2010, but he is expected to leave by the end of the Summer of 2010, according to the Press Association.Initially, Shephard only presented an entertainment section of the television programme before being given a promotion to the sofa in 2005. He is the third presenter to leave GMTV within the last year, after the departures of Fiona Phillips and Penny Smith.According to a statement released from Ben Shephard's agent: "Ben's two-year contract with GMTV is up at the end of April. Earlier this year, his management made it clear that he would not be renewing it, but would be happy to stay on temporarily during this transitional period. Ben is excited about moving on after 10 incredible years and will be focusing on a number of new projects with ITV and other channels."Adrian Chiles, who recently announced his departure from the BBC after modifications were made to The One Show — a show that he presented with Christine Bleakley — was recently reported to be appearing as a presenter on GMTV in the future.The Benet Academy Redwings' varsity boys basketball team defeated Naperville North High School Tuesday night after scoring a tie-breaking three-point goal at the buzzer. Both teams from DuPage County, Illinois, United States, entered the game held at Naperville North undefeated, having won tournament titles during the Thanksgiving holiday and conference openers.  Benet defeated St. Patrick High School 41–27 in the East Suburban Catholic Conference opener last week.  The Redwings and the Huskies faced each other last year as well in the postseason regional opening round game, with the former defeating the latter.The two teams played evenly in the first quarter, but Naperville North's reserves achieved an 11–0 run starting at the end of the first quarter.  Benet did not score any goals in the second quarter, leaving it with a 15–27 loss at halftime.  The Redwings, however, began to recover in the third quarter with only eight turnovers and a 22–17 rebounding deficit, but they still lagged behind with a score of 27–37 at the end of the third quarter.  The team ultimately rebounded in the fourth quarter when senior forward Dylan Flood scored five consecutive three-point goals. With only 8.1 seconds left in the game and a tie of 42–42, Benet had possession of the ball and called a timeout.  Naperville North fouled twice and also called a timeout with 3.4 seconds left.  Junior guard Dave Sobolewski received a pass from Flood and scored a three-point goal at the buzzer, leading Benet to victory as fans stormed the court.  "I was lucky enough to hit it," said Sobolewski. Due to the victory, Benet earned a record of 5–0, while that of Naperville North was 5–1.  Benet will continue to play several away games over the next few weeks and into the Christmas and New Year holiday, with only one of its first thirteen games being a home game.  The home game will be played against Marian Catholic High School on Saturday night.  One school Benet surely will not be playing against this year, however, is St. Francis High School.  In an address to the student body last year, Principal Stephen Marth ended the long-lasting rivalry with St. Francis, citing concerns about student misconduct during the game held between the two schools on February 14, 2009.  Benet and St. Francis are not in the same conference.A spokesperson for Scotland Yard has confirmed that no arrests have been made after Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone was injured in a mugging on Wednesday. The 80-year-old billionaire was treated in hospital for head injuries he sustained in the attack, in which the four muggers stole £200,000 of jewellery from him and his 31-year-old girlfriend. The attack occurred as Ecclestone visited his company's office with girlfriend Fabiana Flosi—who was reportedly "shaken" but uninjured—in central London. "There can be little doubt that this was a targeted robbery because of who Mr. Ecclestone is," a police source said. "The muggers were callous and showed little regard for the victims. They need to be caught." Police confirmed that "[a] man was taken to a west London hospital for treatment to a minor head injury and was subsequently discharged. There were no reports of any other injuries. Officers from Westminster robbery squad are investigating. There have been no arrests and inquiries continue." Four years ago, Ecclestone was mugged as he parked his car outside his £10 million home in Chelsea Square; two wheels were taken from the car.ITV have dropped images of the face of Big Ben from the title sequence of ITV’s News at Ten. ITN announced that the images were being removed as the show begins a revamp. The change comes as the company wants to engage with viewers who live outside of London where Big Ben is situated. The changes will be made on November 2 of this year. The bongs that come from the clock's bell will however remain as part of a new soundtrack.The ITV news returned in 2001 at the new time of 10:30 pm but was later changed back to its original timeslot of 10:00 pm in 2008. The original ITV News at 10 was dropped in 1999 after 32 years on air. Current anchors Mark Austin and Julie Etchingham will remain as the show's presenters after the revamp.In the past two months, Parker Somerville, a videographer for the website TMZ.com, transitioned from an average guy leading an ordinary life, to living in an extraordinary voyeuristic existence, and back again to the beginning. Simply put, it was a transition from reality to reality, with a two-week detour in reality television. Somerville was a former contestant on the CBS reality TV staple Big Brother, currently in its ninth installment. Evicted on Day 14, Somerville hoped to have another chance to play the game, but came in second in the special "America's Choice" poll to bring back a former HouseGuest (the poll results were eventually not used at all and nobody was brought back). Now freed from a three-week sequester, Somerville was interviewed by Wikinews reporter Mike Halterman and he discussed his thoughts on Big Brother, how he and his fellow HouseGuests were portrayed and received, and what he plans to do now that his experience is, for the most part, over.Somerville will return to Big Brother on finale night in five weeks. Please check your local listings for time and channel. Big Brother airs on CBS in the United States, Global in Canada, and E4 in the United Kingdom.David Tchappat, a popular housemate recently evicted from the television reality program Big Brother Australia, has spoken out critically of his childhood experiences in the controversial religious group "Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren", referred to in Australian media as "Exclusive Brethren". Tchappat was a participant in the edition Big Brother Australia 2008, and was voted off the show on May 25.Tchappat, 33, a former police officer and presently a firefighter, left the controversial group at age 19. He says he attempted to leave at age 17 but was brought back by members of the group and "interrogated" by group leadership for months. Up until he left he had never eaten in a restaurant, listened to the radio or been to the movie theater. According to Macquarie National News, Tchappat's former community numbers number approximately 15,000 in Australia. Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren is a sect of Protestant Christianity and a breakaway group from Exclusive Brethren.Due to his departure from the group, Tchappat had to break off contact with family members still inside the organization, though at times he speaks with his parents. Members do not vote in elections because they feel it contradicts their belief that God should determine who is in power, but they provide finances to the Liberal Party of Australia. Tchappat's cousin Andrew left the group a few months after he did.After getting to know his fellow Big Brother Australia housemates for three weeks, Tchappat recounted some of his experiences in his former religious group. "Look, I don't like to say it's a cult, but it basically is. My whole life was controlled. I didn't have a say in it myself," he said on one episode. He grew up in the Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren community in Gosford, New South Wales, and explained: "It's based on Christian values but it's very strict. So I had no TV, no radio, no computer, never been to a movie or a restaurant or kissed a girl - you name it, I didn't do it."In an interview Tuesday with former Big Brother Australia runner-up Tim Brunero on Macquarie National News, Tchappat said he is planning on releasing a book about his experiences growing up in the controversial religious group. "I've spent the last two years writing it. It just happened that I got into Big Brother in the tail-end of it. Obviously there's a few more chapters to add, but I'm really pumped, it's an interesting story," he said. He plans to title the book Losing my Religion. He was also interviewed by ninemsn on Tuesday, and said he does not regret discussing his experiences in Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren on Australian national television. "I'm an example of how you can go out and be successful. I say to people that if you are thinking about leaving, and you're serious, take a punt and give it a go. You can always go back if you don't like it." Former members of the group were inspired by Tchappat's comments and empathized with his experiences in posts to Big Brother Internet message boards.Prime Minister of Australia Kevin Rudd criticized the Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren group in August 2007. At the time he was leader of the Australian Labor Party, and requested that then-Prime Minister John Howard reveal what took place in a private meeting with senior members of the religious group. "I believe this is an extremist cult and sect. I also believe that it breaks up families," said Rudd to reporters in Adelaide according to The Sydney Morning Herald. He noted that the organization was being investigated by the Australian Federal Police for prior election activities, and wanted to know how much funding had been given by the group to the Liberal Party. During his election campaign Rudd called on Australian federal agencies including the anti-money laundering agency Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC), the Australian Federal Police, the Australian Taxation Office, and the Australian Electoral Commission to investigate the activities of Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren. In spite of Rudd's criticism of Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren, the religious group was guaranteed AUD10 million in taxpayer funding for its school facilities in January 2008. Rudd had promised during his election campaign to maintain education funding levels for non-government schools if he became Prime Minister.Australia media reported on May 18 that Rudd rejected a request from former members of Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren to investigate the group. 34 ex-members of the religious group had sent a letter to the Prime Minister's office asking him to investigate how they were treated in the organization. A spokesman for Rudd said that the ex-members should instead take their request to the police, and that a government investigation would raise religious freedom issues. Rudd's chief of staff David Epstein said that the Prime Minister "does not resile from the views he expressed last year" and "remains concerned about the reported imposition of doctrines that weaken family bonds". Australian Greens spokeswoman Christine Milne told Australia's ABC News said that the well-being of children still in the group should be of primary concern. "The issue here is not about religious freedom, it is about what this cult is doing to destroy families and effectively to undermine the law," said Milne. Ex-member Peter Flinn, who wrote the letter sent to Rudd which was signed by 33 other former members, was disappointed by the Prime Minister's response. "We just want to highlight other equally fundamental human rights, such as access to family who remain Brethren members, a right callously denied for decades," he said in a statement in The Sydney Morning Herald. Senator Bob Brown of the Australian Greens party has proposed a government inquiry into the group's public funding, tax concessions and possible practices that harm children.The winner of the British television reality show Celebrity Big Brother, Shilpa Shetty expressed her gratitude to Prime Minister Tony Blair during a meeting at the U.K. Houses of Parliament.The Bollywood actress observed prime minister's question time in the Commons before meeting Mr Blair himself. She thanked him for his support, describing him as "very sweet."The visit took place following an invitation by Labour MP for Leicester South, Keith Vaz, who led calls for action against the treatment of Ms Shetty during her stint on the reality TV show. Celebrity Big Brother was criticised by public and politicians alike last month after Ms Shetty's treatment by other contestants erupted in  an international race row.Today, she told reporters she had thanked the PM for his support "to me and my country".Her visit drew widespread media attention and she was greeted at Parliament by a media scuffle, including over 20 reporters from her native India."To see how so much respect has been bestowed upon me has truly been an honour," she added.According to organisers, the Commons chef had even prepared a special dessert in her honour "Shilpa's delight" and she was also introduced to Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell. The actress was crowned winner of Celebrity Big Brother, following confrontations with fellow housemates Jade Goody, Jo O'Meara and Danielle Lloyd who were accused of bullying and racism. Despite denying the claims, all three lost most of their major endorsements and Jade and Danielle's partners are said to have left them.Politicians became embroiled in the proceedings when media regulator Ofcom received more than 40,000 complaints from viewers.This resulted in the row reached both the House of Commons and India, where chancellor Gordon Brown's bridge-building visit was overshadowed by controversy caused by the programme.In the evening, Ms Shetty travelled to the city of Leicester to meet with members of Keith Vaz' constituency. Reena Combo, editor of British Asian entertainment magazine Ikonz, was one of the guests. Ms Combo felt the visit would boost a sense of belonging amongst Leicester-South's largely Asian population."I think it's wonderful to see Shilpa Shetty taking the time to visit the people of Leicester. There has been a great deal of national interest in Shilpa since her appearance on Big Brother but many of the people here, especially the Asian community, have been fans of the Bollywood star for much longer so it’s nice to see her rewarding her loyal supporters.""She has over the last few weeks become an inspiration to many and become very much a part of British life."As yet, the Bollywood actress continues her tour of the country as an unofficial ambassador for the Indian film industry and has been invited to attend a Commonwealth reception at London's Marlborough House on March 12, where she will be meeting with the Queen.In a dominating performance, Big Brown triumphed in the 2008 Kentucky Derby. Jockey Kent Desormeaux gave Big Brown a stalking ride, even as he was 4-wide along the backstretch. Once they reached the top of the stretch, Big Brown grabbed the lead and won going away, 4 3/4 lengths away from filly Eight Belles. Desormeaux wins his third Kentucky Derby, while trainer Richard Dutrow savored his victory after having bragged about how well his horse is for the Derby. Shortly after the race finished, Eight Belles collapsed on the backstretch, shattering her two front ankles. She was euthanized minutes later. Veterinarian Larry Bramlage conceded that "there was no possible way Eight Belles could be saved... that's an injury that's very painful." The moment was bittersweet for trainer Larry Jones, who sent Eight Belle's stablemate Proud Spell to victory in the Kentucky Oaks.Sent off 2-1 as the post-time favorite, Big Brown paid $6.80 to win. The $2 exacta (20-5) paid $141.60. The $1 trifecta (20-5-16) paid a healthy $1,722.80 with 13-1 shot Denis of Cork, and the $1 superfecta (20-5-16-2) paid a very respectable $29,368.90 with 37-1 shot Tale of Ekati. Big Brown is being pointed to run in the Preakness Stakes on May 17. However, few horses from this year's Kentucky Derby are looking to follow, opting instead to run in the Belmont Stakes on June 7.The Mathew Street festival, an annual event held in Liverpool, has started today. Claiming to be the largest free Music festival in Europe, it gets its name from the street on which the Cavern Club was situated. Last year some 370,000 people attended the event.75 bands will perform on five stages across the city and free live music at another 40 indoor venues throughout the August Bank Holiday weekend. The Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra will make its debut at the festival on Friday, 7.30pm at the Pier Head. The Lightning Seeds are headlining the festival on Sunday. Gerry and the Pacemakers will also be playing as well as up to 30 unsigned local bands.Leading off is the week-long Harley rally, followed by the next week's BikeFest. In and around town, both day and night are punctured by the sounds of bike engines gunned and revved at stop lights and in parking lots.  Groups of cycle riders dominate the streets.“By Friday night, the front parking lot will be a full line of motorcycles to the corner.” said motel owner Ranjan Patel. The Super 8 motel takes up half a block at its location in the heart of the downtown motel strip. “Both sides [of Ocean Blvd] are nothing but bikes.” Both she and her co-owner husband agree, the influx of bikers dwarf in size the numbers of tourists who visit during regular summer months for ocean-side and family amusement park attractions.The highly accesorised bikes, decked with chrome and polished to show it, flashed the townscape. Choppers made a showing, but road hogs dominated the ridership, often going twosome. Many rally goers arrived on the scene with SUV’s or big pickup trucks towing cargo trailers loaded with cycles.Growth in the sheer size of the two rallies led police to make changes in the handling of traffic flow. During BikeFest last year, the mostly black crowd that came in on the heels of the largely white Harley rally the week earlier, were faced with confusion when the two-lane Ocean Blvd was made one-way.A branch of the NAACP in Conway, the next town over from Myrtle Beach, alleged discrimination by Horry County and Myrtle Beach Police. They claimed authorities and police used an overwhelming and aggressive police presence, combined with a restrictive one-way traffic pattern, to intimidate and discourage the participants in the rally.An injunction was issued earlier this week by U.S. District Judge Terry Wooten, who ruled that bikers at both rallies be treated the same. Myrtle Beach city lawyers immediately filed an appeal to the ruling at the Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, saying "the trial court erroneously determined that the plaintiffs would likely succeed on the merits; that is, that the city of Myrtle Beach intentionally treats Memorial Day weekend tourists differently from others similarly situated because of their race."A plan to submit an opposition to the notice has already been announced by Michael Navarre, an attorney for Steptoe & Johnson, who represents the NAACP civil rights group. "We certainly don't think the judge has ruled erroneously," Navarre said, according to The Sun News.Traffic control and safety measures were in full swing Friday morning on US-17. Both directions of the 4-lane divided highway south of Myrtle Beach had traffic cones and parking barriers set up to control traffic. Large flashing road signs on each side of the highway warned cars to use the passing lane. The warning sign flashed a message that the right lane was for motorcycle use only. Police monitored the pull-offs near a Harley dealer's lot where popular attractions were set-up in the immediate vicinity.Bill Gates, founder of the software giant Microsoft, has been made a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in recognition of his business skills and work on poverty reduction. He received the title on Wednesday, March 2, at a private meeting with Queen Elizabeth.Now at age 48, Bill Gates is the world's wealthiest man, according to Forbes Magazine. Bill Gates rose to fame in the early nineties as the CEO of Microsoft, the maker of Microsoft Windows 95, the world's best selling computer operating system at the time.Though Mr. Gates has now been knighted, he cannot use the term Sir since he is not a citizen of the United Kingdom. He can instead place the letters KBE after his name. If he chooses to become a subject of the Queen in the future, he can have his title upgraded to Sir.Professional photographer John B. Mueller was at the Children Uniting Nations/Billboard Academy Awards afterparty red carpet, taking photos for Wikinews. It is one of the largest events,  following only the Vanity Fair and Elton John AIDS Foundation Party in size.Among the guests at the event were Lil' Kim, Bow Wow, Ruben Studdard, Diane DeGarmo, DMX, Darryl 'DMC' McDaniels, DJ Spinderella, Dennis Hopper, Blu Cantrell, Tyler Hilton, Erik Palladino, Daniel Cage, Farnsworth Bentley, Aaron Carter, Nick Carter, Cindy Margolis, LaToya Jackson, AJ McLean, Joey Fatone, Shar Jackson, Tyrese, Tyson Beckford, Tara Reid, Rosie Perez, Radha Mitchell, MC Lyte, Jane Seymour, James Keach, Fran Drescher, Tommy Davidson, Bruce Davison, and Adam Kowalczyk.Even Mickey Rooney stopped by to watch the ceremonies.Larry Birkhead, boyfriend of the late-Anna Nicole Smith was still on the guest list, according to press materials. No media outlet reported him attending, so it is likely he stayed in Florida for the on-going legal proceedings.All of the photos taken by Mueller at the event are released under the Creative Commons By Attribution license, which allows them to be used freely by anyone for any purpose, so long as they credit both Mueller and Wikimedia.Musician Billy Preston, a so-called "fifth Beatle", died in Arizona at the age of 59 after a long illness.  A native of Houston, Texas, Preston played while in his teens with Mahalia Jackson, Little Richard and Ray Charles.He later backed up the Beatles, playing keyboards on Let It Be, The White Album and Abbey Road. He also played on the hit Beatles single "Get Back."As a soloist, Preston topped the record charts in the early 1970s with "Outta Space," "Will It Go Round in Circles," and "Nothing from Nothing."He joined the Rolling Stones on tour and backed them up on "Can't You Hear Me Knocking" and "Heartbreaker."He also wrote the Joe Cocker hit "You Are So Beautiful," and collaborated with Aretha Franklin, Bob Dylan, Quincy Jones, and Barbra Streisand.He won two Grammys, including one for his involvement in the Concert for Bangladesh, staged by ex-Beatle George Harrison in 1971. Last year, in one of his final appearances, Preston performed in Los Angeles with former Beatle Ringo Starr and Harrison's son, Dhani.Plagued by drug and alcohol abuse, Preston had scrapes with the law on narcotics and other charges. He suffered from chronic kidney failure, and had been in a coma since November.Ren and Stimpy.  Bugs Bunny.  Philip J. Fry and Professor Hubert Farnsworth on Futurama.  Sparx.  Bi-Polar Bear.  Popeye the Sailor Man.  Woody Woodpecker.  You may not think you have ever heard Billy West, but chances are on a television program, a movie, a commercial, or as Howard Stern's voice guru in the 1990's, you have heard him.  West's talent for creating personalities by twisting his voice has made him one of a handful of voice actors—Hank Azaria and the late Mel Blanc come to mind—who have achieved celebrity for their talent.  Indeed, West is one of the few voice actors who can impersonate Blanc in his prime, including characterizations of Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Elmer Fudd and other characters from Warner Bros. cartoons.What is the fulcrum in Mr. West's life that led him to realize a talent to shape personalities with his voice, and how did the discovery of that gift shape him?  Wikinews reporter David Shankbone found that like many great comedians, West faced more sour early in life than he did sweet.  The sour came from a physically and emotionally abusive alcoholic father ("I could tell you the kind of night I was going to have from the sound of the key in the door or the way the car pulled up."), to his own problems with drug and alcohol use ("There is a point that you can reach in your life where you don’t want to live, but you haven’t made the decision to die.").If sin, suffering and redemption feel like the stages of an endless cycle of American existence, West's own redemption from his brutalized childhood is what helped shape his gift.  He performed little bits to cheer up his cowed mother, ravaged by the fact she could not stop her husband's abuse of young West.  "I was the whipping boy and she would just be reduced to tears a lot of times, and I would come in and say stuff, and I would put out little bits just to pull her out of it."But West has also enjoyed the sweet.  His career blossomed as his talent for creating entire histories behind fictional characters and creatures simply by exploring nuance in his voice landed him at the top of his craft.  You may never again be able to forget that behind the voice of your favorite character, there is often an extraordinary life.  Below is David Shankbone's interview with renowned voice actor Billy West, who for the first time publicly talks about the horrors he faced in his childhood; his misguided search for answers in anger, drugs and alcohol; and the peace he has achieved as one of America's most recognizable voice actors.US hip hop group Black Eyed Peas has announced that it is almost finished with its new studio album, The Beginning. The group's leader and producer, will.i.am (William James Adams, Jr.), says that the recording "symbolizes growth, new beginnings and starts, fresh new perspective. It's a positive, feel-good [album] at the time where there's question marks and uncertainty. People want to be reminded that it's going to be all right."The Beginning is the group's sixth studio album and is set to be released by the end of the year. It comes one year after the release of multiplatinum The E.N.D. and one of its hit singles "I Gotta Feeling"."I Gotta Feeling" officially became the most downloaded digital song last Friday, having reached six million legal digital downloads. Released in June 2009, the song topped the charts for fourteen weeks. iTunes still lists the song as the bestselling of all time, and its music video on YouTube has reached approximately 38 million views.Will.i.am said of the milestone, "We came out in '98 and our career, if you would look at it on chart, there's no dips in it. For our career to still be healthy and vibrant and doing things like 6 million downloads, it's pretty significant."In Sint-Niklaas, Belgium, a multicultural mass marriage event is to take place next Wednesday, on the U.N.-designated International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. More than 550 couples have already registered to make a devotion pledge or renew their wedding vows before municipal officer Wouter Van Bellingen. The alderman called for the event after three couples cancelled their marriage because Wouter is black.Van Bellingen, whose Rwandan parents gave him up for adoption, grew up in Sint-Niklaas as the youngest child in a family of 4 adopted children. Van Bellingen is a member of the political party Spirit, which strives for more Flemish autonomy in Belgium. After the 2006 municipal elections in Belgium, he became the first black councillor in Belgium, responsible for civilian, youth and international affairs in Sint-Niklaas. "The combination of his black skin colour with the shiny white brides dresses will be very photogenic..." mayor Freddy Willockx predicted when he presented his councillors. One month after Van Bellingen took office, the media reported that three couples refused to be married by a black registrar.At first, Van Bellingen wasn't very surprised. "As a coloured person, I go through this every day. That's just the reality in Flanders. Only, I didn't expect this to happen so fast." After the incident, Van Bellingen got hundreds of calls and letter from people supporting him, including prime minister Guy Verhofstadt, who condemned "such as stupid form of racism".Socialist mayor Willockx accused the far-right political party Vlaams Belang (Eng. Flemish Interest) of creating the atmosphere for his deputy's experience. Vlaams Belang is second in the polls for the elections next June in Flanders. But, as Van Bellingen pointed out: "This is not just a problem in Sint-Niklaas, or in Flanders, but all over Europe. And there are racists in every political party here."Since Van Bellingen made the news, the number of wedding ceremonies he has to lead has doubled, and even bookings for 2008 are coming in. Because many people regretted the fact that they could not be married by the famous alderman, he decided to organise a mass wedding, on the International anti-racism day. Not only future and established couples can take part in the ceremony, but even teens who want to prove their love. "Anyone can wed that day. I'm not a racist."Similar to the television show Fata Morgana, Wouter has 5 challenges for the couples and for the city of Sint-Niklaas: together, they are to realise the biggest wedding pledge, a big wedding photo, a big group hug on the market square, a multicultural dessert buffet and a big first wedding dance.British metal musician Geoff Nicholls, keyboardist for Black Sabbath from 1979 to 2004, died yesterday after battling lung cancer. He was 68.Prior to Sabbath, Nicholls performed with New Wave of British Heavy Metal band Quartz. Quartz's 1977 début album was produced by Tony Iommi, founding guitarist of Black Sabbath. Iommi broke the news of Nicholls's death to fans, writing he was "so saddened to hear the loss of one of my dearest and closest friends Geoff Nicholls. He's been suffering for a while now with lung cancer and he lost his battle this morning. Geoff and I have always been very close and he has been a real true friend to me and supported me all the way for nearly 40 years. I will miss him dearly and he will live in my heart until we meet again."Hailing from Birmingham, England, the origin of both bands Quartz and Sabbath, Nicholls appeared on numerous Sabbath albums starting with Heaven and Hell in 1980. Nicholls was caught up in turmoil within the band, with Heaven and Hell released shortly after the firing of frontman Ozzy Osbourne and his replacement with Ronnie James Dio, who died in 2010.Nicholls was not always considered a full band member; despite achieving this status in 1986 when Seventh Star was released, he often played offstage or from the side during concerts. In 1992 he was demoted when Sabbath reunited with Dio to release Dehumanizer and he was again demoted when Osbourne rejoined in 1997. In 2004 Osbourne's solo band keyboardist, Adam Wakeman, joined the band leaving Nicholls without a role.Nicholls thereafter joined another ex-Sabbath musician, Tony Martin, and performed in Martin's band Headless Cross. Headless Cross was named after a 1989 Black Sabbath album. "Saddened to hear of the passing of Geoff Nicholls", Martin said, adding "Safe journey, mate."Osbourne said Nicholls "was a great friend of mine for a long time. He will be greatly missed. I'm very saddened at the news." Sabbath bassist Geezer Butler said he was "Very sad to hear of old friend and Sabbath keyboard player Geoff Nicholls passing."Nicholls further appears on two Tony Martin solo albums, and played in 1960s band Johnny Neal and the Starliners. He played occasional rhythm guitar at Black Sabbath live shows.Tony Blair has been asked to speak out on behalf of a British artist, Michael Dickinson, who has been charged in Turkey with "insulting the (Turkish) prime minister's dignity". This carries a sentence of up to 3 years in jail. The case was brought after Dickinson displayed a collage showing Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish Prime Minister, as a dog, being awarded a rosette by President Bush in a pet show.On May 30, 2005, in a "blogswarm", a massive blog alliance formed.  The swarm was fueled by the leak of a secret British memo known as the "Downing Street memo". Hundreds of blogs formed into the "Big Brass Alliance", almost overnight, and the alliance is still growing.A blogswarm is when a large number of bloggers focus on an issue and spread information on it throughout the blogosphere quickly, causing the blogs to swiftly synchronize, much like a swarm of bees.  In this particular blogswarm, titled by its patriots the "Big Brass Blogswarm", the blogs have aggregated about a central blog: The Big Brass Alliance.The Big Brass Alliance is a collective of bloggers who support AfterDowningStreet.org.  The latest "blogroll" can be see here via PHP or in RSS XML.  All the blogs will voluntarily post all correspondence from afterdowningstreet.org on their main page, and in general be coordinated by them.  The current goals of the Big Brass Alliance are to:Spread awareness of the memo. (Neither the US nor the UK government are disputing the accuracy of the memo.)Petition mainstream media to report on the contents of the memo as it pertains to the Bush Administration's handling of pre-war intelligence, and the controversy surrounding it.Gather 250,000 signatures from citizens for a letter from Congress to the President of the United States, urging him to answer five questions regarding the memo, its contents, and the actions of the Administration.Urge people to personally ask the President a single question regarding the Administration's handling of pre-war intelligence and the sentence in the leaked memo: "But the intelligence and facts were being fixed around the policy." (There is a $1,000 reward out for a clear answer.)Urge people to sign a petition in support of a "Resolution of Inquiry" into President Bush's handling of pre-war intelligence.Within days of its inception, the Alliance delegated maintenance tasks to dedicated bloggers, created a mailing list and forum for news and coordination, and created a Yahoo group and chat channel for brainstorming.  You can see a trendgraph of the blogswarm here, and a closeup of the trend here.  Discussion of impeachment also soared during the blogswarm. References to "blogswarm" in blogs in its inception on May 31 can be see here.  The last blogswarm was on March 21, in response to the Terri Schiavo trial, but the one before that was much bigger.  That blogswarm was on February 17, and it was fueled by an opinion article in the Wall Street Journal by columnist Peggy Noonan, titled "The Blogs Must Be Crazy".  That blogswarm, however didn't generate a massive alliance like this one, and it wasn't focused on a political issue.  "Spitbull" has a list of other blogswarms and their "fallout", that they call a "blogswarming scorecard".The top ten list in order was:blogincumbentelectoralinsurgenthurricanecicadapelotonpartisansovereigntydefenestrationReuters reports that the company said most online dictionary queries were for uncommon terms, but people also turned to its Web sites for words in news headlines."That is what occurred in this year's election cycle ... with voluminous hits for words like 'incumbent,' 'electoral,' 'partisan,' and, of course, our number one Word of the Year, 'blog'," Merriam-Webster President and Publisher John Morse said in a statement.The dictionary has been criticized however for its definition of a blog on a blog news website, that described Merriam-Websters definition of a blog as a personal journal as "garbage" and "so 1999".Wikinews interviewed author Marc Headley about his new book Blown for Good, and asked him about life inside the international headquarters of Scientology known as "Gold Base", located in Gilman Hot Springs near Hemet, California. Headley joined the organization at age seven when his mother became a member, and worked at Scientology's international management headquarters for several years before leaving in 2005.The battle between the two high definition optical disc formats, Blu-ray and HD DVD has ended after sole HD DVD manufacturer Toshiba has announced it will no longer produce HD DVD players.In a press conference yesterday, Toshiba president Atsutoshi Nishida announced and confirmed that Toshiba will terminate the R&D plan on HD-DVD products. The key issue to force Toshiba terminating their HD-DVD R&D plan was Warner Bros., who changed their R&D plan from HD-DVD to Blu-ray on January 4.In what is a reverse of the VHS vs Betamax format war, Sony's Blu-ray has come out on top with the backing of major studios and retailers such as Warner Bros. but also Wal-Mart, Best Buy, Netflix, and Blockbuster who announced they would only support Blu-ray exclusively this past month.Even though Toshiba is currently about to change their R&D plan from HD-DVD to NAND flash drives and micro drives and plan to build two factories in Iwate, Japan, the company will provide the maintenance service on discs and players in the future 8 years.Sony bundled Blu-ray into their PlayStation 3 game system. Microsoft's competing Xbox 360, comes with a $200 HD DVD add-on player, whose fate is now undetermined with the demise of HD DVD. Microsoft has said they will wait for what Toshiba has to say.B.B. King, legendary blues guitarist well known for tracks such as "Rock Me Baby", "My Lucille", and "The Thrill Is Gone", died in his Las Vegas home yesterday at the age of 89.Attorney Brent Bryson said King died in his sleep.A 15-time Grammy winner, with over 50 albums released, King played live for nearly 70 years. He had reportedly collapsed at a Chicago performance back in October, and blamed dehydration and exhaustion for the incident. King recently was under hospice care at home, after being treated for diabetes and high blood pressure in hospital. The last public statement B.B King made, according to The Sydney Morning Herald, was early this month. He said, "I am in hospice care at my residence in Las Vegas. Thanks to all for your well wishes and prayers." Known for playing the blues on his  Gibson guitar called Lucille, B.B King was admired by many musicians, including  Keith Richards, Eric Clapton,  Jimi Hendrix and Otis Rush. The Blues Foundation Hall of Fame and Rock and Roll Hall of Fame both inducted him in the 1980s; and the Songwriters Hall of Fame recognized him with a lifetime achievement award in 1990. King also collaborated with other music artists and bands. In 1989 he played with U2 on their track "When Love Comes to Town", and in the millennium, worked with Eric Clapton on "Riding with the King"; which received a Grammy that same year. Riley B King, who would eventually be called the King of Blues, grew up in Mississippi where he lived on a plantation as a sharecropper. He found success in the 50's with hit track "Three O'Clock Blues", and was well-known for not singing and playing guitar at the same time; a call and response between his vocals and his Lucille. With the news of his death, many musicians payed their respects through Twitter. Guitarist Richie Sambora wrote, "My friend and legend BB King passed. I'm so so sad, he was so great to me. We've lost the King. My love and prayers to his family." The Beatles'  Ringo Starr also wrote, "God bless BB King, peace and love to his family".American blues musician Pinetop Perkins, a first generation Delta bluesman, died in Austin, Texas, on Monday at the age of 97. His death was announced by his agent, Hugh Southard. Perkins suffered from a cardiac arrest as he took a nap and paramedics failed resuscitate him. During his 80-year career Perkins remained active until the end, even  performing publicly as recently as last month.A boogie-woogie piano player, he was a guitarist until a knife fight damaged his left arm.  He was primarily a sideman. Throughout his career he worked with several big names including Sonny Boy Williamson, Ike Turner and slide guitarist Robert Nighthawk. He  worked for Muddy Waters for more than a decade, including playing on Muddy's great comeback albums of the late 1970s. He was 75 before an album was released under his own name.  Perkins also made history this year by becoming the oldest Grammy award winner. He won the best traditional blues album at February's ceremony for his album, Joined at the Hip: Pinetop Perkins & Willie "Big Eyes" Smith.Tributes have been paid to Perkins. Southard said "That drive to keep playing the blues kept is what kept him alive." He also commented on Perkins simple lifestyle saying "Two cheeseburgers, apple pie, a cigarette and a pretty girl was all he wanted." Perkins was born in  in 1913 in Mississippi and grew up on a plantation there. In a 2008 interview in No Depression he said,  "I grew up hard. I picked cotton and plowed with the mule and fixed the cars and played with the guitar and the piano. What I learned I learned on my own. I didn’t have much school. Three years." He left behind no family and will be buried in his hometown of Belzoni, Mississippi. He had been living with an associate in Austin since 2004.Bob Barker, the out-going host of American TV game show The Price Is Right has taped his final show."I will regret not being at the show, I know, probably for the rest of my life because I've enjoyed it so much," said Barker, 83, who has been host of the show for 35 years.The audience, who is also a pool of possible contestants, gave a round of applause and a standing ovation. Confetti was also sprayed about to celebrate his time with the show.His final words were, "Help control the pet population. Have your pets spayed or neutered." Barker has said those words at the end of every show for many years. The show originated on September 4, 1972.The finale will air on 15 June. A new host has yet to be determined but auditions have started in December 2006. The show and its staff have won six Daytime Emmy Awards. Barker has won seventeen Emmy Awards for hosting the show.Bob Dylan, the U.S. musical artist and songwriter, performed his first concert ever in Vietnam on Sunday night, forty years after his 1960s protest songs, now iconic,  gave voice to America's anti-Vietnam War movement. The concert  came days after he played two shows  in China, where he performed in Beijing and Shanghai as part of his  Asia-Pacific tour. On Sunday, he played in Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon), on a date  50 years after  his first major  performance. Dylan played outdoors on a warm evening on the grassy grounds of RMIT University. The  audience was a mixture of young and old; both foreigners and Vietnamese were present. He played in a Vietnam now at peace where half the population is under 30, too young to have memories of the war.Dressed in a purple shirt, black jacket and wearing a white hat, he was welcomed with loud applause by an enthusiastic audience. His 17-song set list  included a selection of his  1960s and 1970s hits such as "All Along the Watchtower", "A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall",  "It Ain't Me Babe", "Tangled Up in Blue", and "Highway 61 Revisited" along with more recent songs.Tran Long An, vice president of the Vietnam Composers' Association noted that the significance of Dylan's Ho Chi Minh City performance was recognized by his Vietnamese fans. "Bob Dylan's music opened up a path where music was used as a weapon to oppose the war in Vietnam and fight injustice and racism," he said. "That was the big thing that he has done for music." Vietnam's communist government allows few western acts to perform. Human rights groups criticized Dylan for submitting his play list for approval by the Vietnamese government authorities, although his promoter said no restrictions were imposed.Jamaica — The celebrations to mark the 60th birthday of Bob Marley, the reggae musician who died of cancer in 1981, have been marked by controversy. Since his death these festivities have always taken place in Jamaica, but this year they are taking place in Ethiopia, and particularly in the town of Shashamane, which is where the former Ethiopian Emperor and Rastafarian God Haile Selassie gave land to the Rastafarians to settle on nearly 40 years ago.The controversy was sparked last month by Bob's wife Rita Marley's comments that she wanted his body to be reburied in Ethiopia. Such was the wave of disapproval generated that she quickly backed away from her original statement, but the question as to where his remains should lie is now being hotly debated both in Jamaica and the rest of the world.As a Rastafarian Bob Marley's spiritual home was in Africa, and specifically in Ethiopia. Yet he only visited the country once, and according to those who want his remains to stay in Jamaica, he was entirely a product of Jamaican culture.A cricket team made up of Bollywood celebrities has beaten a Yorkshire opposition in a charity cricket match at Headingley, held as part of the International Indian Film Academy ("IIFA") Weekend in Yorkshire, England, celebrating Indian cinema and its stars.The "Bolly 11" team, consisting of Indian actors and cricketers, took on the Yorkshire 11 which featured former English cricketers, British TV stars and musicians and two members of Parliament.Amitabh Bachchan, film legend and IIFA Brand Ambassador inaugurated the event, followed by actor Salman Khan, and Shilpa Shetty who greeted excited fans. Shetty supervised the toss and then conducted a walkabout of the grounds, signing autographs.The A-list Bolly team was made up of Saif Ali Khan (captain), Arjun Rampal, Dino Moreo, Fardeen Khan, Aftab Shivadasani, Ritesh Deshmukh, Sohail Khan, Arshad Warsi, Boman Irani, Upen Patel, Arbaaz Khan, Vishal Bhardwaj, Kapil Dev and Mohammed Azharuddin.The Yorkshire team displayed the talents of Nick Knowles, Rosalie Birch, Gladstone Small, Devon Malcolm, Jay Sean, Sherwin Campbell, Chris Lewis, Danny McGuire, Harry Gration, Greg Wise, Manish Bhasin, Ajmal Shahzad, Andew Gale, Colin Salmon, Oliver Milburn and MPs Keith Vaz and Shahid Malik.The match also saw the return to the square of the ever popular and highly respected Yorkshireman, (Harold) "Dickie" Bird, who umpired with Jack Hampshire.The game was a light-hearted affair with fans and supporters cheering on the players for both teams. The overall mood was festive with Mexican waves, song and dance and Indian and Pakistani flags being waved. In cricketing spirit, banners featuring slogans "Bollywood Team to Win" and "4" filled the Headingley Carnegie Stadium as the game went on.The IIFA XI won the match after former Indian captain Kapil Dev hit a boundary off the last ball to score the winning runs. The Yorkshire XI had scored 142 in 20 overs. The Bollywood team scored 143.Other celebrities in attendance were Aishwarya Rai, Bipasha Basu, Govinda, Kabir Bedi, Randhir Kapoor, Rakesh Roshan, and director J.P. Dutta along with Myleene Klass and Brit-Asian female rapper Hard Kaur. Money raised from the match is to be donated to the IIFA Foundation.A wax figure of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan has been unveiled at London’s Madame Tussauds. The likeness of Khan, widely known as 'King Khan', has today become the third official figure of a Bollywood celebrity to grace the attraction.Khan, star of over 50 films, specially flew to London to unveil his wax figure at the prestigious venue, with a special documentary on the actor's movie career showcased on the day. The lifesize model was uncloaked to applause and cheers from the crowd.Artists from Madame Tussauds had spent time in India earlier this year in order to obtain precise measurements of the film star's physical features, face and hair.Speaking of the privilege, Khan said, "It has been a lifelong dream since I visited the attraction as a child to be immortalised in wax and meet my very own Madame Tussauds double. "This is truly a great honour; I was delighted to be involved in the whole creative process."The actor met with special guests before spending time with British fans. He also met winners of competitions organised by the BBC Asian Network and Ikonz. Britain is believed to be home to one of Bollywood's largest fan bases within Europe.Reena Combo, editor of British Asian magazine Ikonz was at the event. She explained, "For most British Asians, Shah Rukh Khan is the equivalent to Hollywood's Brad Pitt. He is one of the biggest stars in the world and the new wax figure in Madame Tussauds will help in further introducing him to those who may still be unaware of his popularity."Khan, 41, has in the past been described by TIME magazine as "the most recognisable actor in the world with an audience of 3.6 billion", while The Guardian once referred to him as 'the world's biggest film star'."The unveiling here in London has been long overdue but fans of Bollywood, especially those in the UK, will be extremely grateful to Madame Tussauds' for the opportunity to meet the real Shah Rukh Khan and his artificial 'twin'," added Ms Combo.Other Bollywood luminaries represented at the attraction include Amitabh Bachchan and Aishwarya Rai. Khan's wax figure is among the only 15 new figures created this year. Madame Tussauds said they did not currently have any plans to create a figure of Shilpa Shetty, the Bollywood actress who recently won Celebrity Big Brother, but they hadn't ruled anything out.Spokesperson for the attraction, Ben Lovett, stated, "We only launch 8 figures per year, and each takes a number of months to make, so it’s vital that we regularly ask guests who they want to see in the attraction. Madame Tussauds London has commitments until early 2008, which means Shah Rukh Khan will be the only Bollywood figure for this year."In terms of Shilpa Shetty, we have been asked but at present we have no plans to make her."Legendary Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan has confirmed that his son Abhishek and former Miss World Aishwarya Rai were engaged last evening at a private ceremony at the Bachchans' residence in Mumbai. It is believed that the younger Bachchan proposed to his bride-to-be in New York, soon after the Toronto premiere of his new movie Guru. The media had been following the romance between the two closely for some time past, but this is the first time they have come out in the open about their relationship. Rumours that the couple were planning to spread the know began to spread in November last year, when they visited the Sankat Mochan Temple together, with some even saying that they had already been married even earlier at the Meenakshi temple in MaduraiAccording to one daily, the wedding will take place either on February 19 or March 7 at the Hyatt Mumbai. "The children have decided. We are very happy and thought we should go ahead with the ‘roka’ ceremony. It was held in the evening.", Amitabh Bachchan said of the ceremony, which was attended by the family's close friends, including Samajwadi Party leader Amar Singh, Aishwarya's parents, and industrialist Anil Ambani and the latter's wife Tina Ambani. The couple have now flown to Ujjain to take a holy dip in the Ganga.The Internet is very much present at the Frankfurt Book Fair 2007, not just, like in previous years, as a means for the journalists who have 80 workplaces for their own notebooks to report on the fair, but like before as a chance - and as a threat for rights-owners of digital media.Professor of philosophy Daniel Dennett's (Tufts University) new book Breaking the Spell uses the scientific method commonly employed to analyze natural phenomena in order to examine religion. The New York Times' February 20th review by Leon Wieseltier, which was strongly negative, has sparked debate about the merits of this approach.Breaking the Spell attempts to present an understanding of religious memes (pieces of information that can spread from person to person) in the same way as Richard Dawkins approached genetics in his selfish gene theory. Dennett's book presents the point of view of an individual religious meme, in competition with other memes, trying to maximize its own successful spread.Wieseltier objects to Dennett's "meme's eye view" analysis as "scientism", claiming that "Dennett lives in a world in which you must believe in the grossest biologism or in the grossest theism, in a purely naturalistic understanding of religion or in intelligent design, in the omniscience of a white man with a long beard in 19th-century England or in the omniscience of a white man with a long beard in the sky." Not all aspects of human life can or should be illuminated by scientific methods, claims Wieseltier.Dennett responded that this criticism followed a pattern of recent "stunts" by the New York Times book review: "When you can't stand the implications of some scientific discipline X, but can't think of any solid objections, you brand them instances of the sin of Xism and then you don't have to take them seriously!" He continues to state that "the very idea of an intensive scientific exploration of religion so upsets Wieseltier that he resorts to flagrant falsehoods — and doesn't even bother supporting his claims with citations."Wieseltier also criticizes several of Dennett's quotations of fellow philosophers, including David Hume, William James, and personal friend of Dennett's Thomas Nagel. Brian Leiter, a professor of philosophy at the University of Texas, also objects to Wieseltier's claim that some aspects of human life can not be illuminated by a scientific approach. "'The view that science can explain all human conditions and expressions, mental as well as physical' is not a 'superstition' but a reasonable methodological posture to adopt based on the actual evidence, that is, based on the actual expanding success of the sciences... during the last hundred years," writes Leiter.  [1]Dennett is eager for the religious to read Breaking the Spell, and spends the first third of the book motivating and justifying his project; this may have had bearing on the Times' selection of reviewers.Both the selfish gene theory and the idea of memes were originally popularized by Professor Richard Dawkins (University of Oxford, Biologist), in his book The Selfish Gene.  The selfish gene theory is the most widely accepted basis for mathematical models in evolutionary biology, as it has repeatedly correctly modeled various problematic situations, such as gender ratios in insect species with haploid males.Daniel Dennett is among the most widely read living philosophers, highly regarded for the diversity of his academic contributions.  Many of his popular works concern evolution, memetics, and human thought.After 22 years of waiting, the Boston Celtics have won their 17th National Basketball Association championship, adding to the 16 that already hang from the rafters of the TD Banknorth Garden and before that, the old Boston Garden.The Celtics won the game 131 to 92 and won the series with 4 wins over their old rivals, the Los Angeles Lakers' 2.  The game was highlighted by Ray Allen's seven 3-pointers, tying the NBA Finals single game record, as well as the Celtics 18 steals, easily a single game record also.  Paul Pierce has been chosen series MVP.The season is noted for the biggest single-season turnaround in NBA history as the last Celtics season was considered to be one of the worst in franchise history.The Boston College men's basketball team defeated the North Carolina State Wolfpack at home in a 74-72 double-overtime thriller on Feb. 25. The BC Eagles, ranked #11 going in to the contest, left with a 22-6, 9-5 record in the Atlantic Coast Conference, while the NC State Wolfpack dropped to #19 after the game with a 21-7, 10-5 record.Boston College star Sean Marshall finished with 22 points, including three 3-point shots, while Craig Smith had 18 points, 14 rebounds and six assists for the Eagles. Ilian Evtimov led the Wolfpack with 16 points.BC outscored the Wolfpack by two in the first half, which was reversed in the second half.  Only Miller's second overtime 4-pointer put BC decisively in the lead and allowed them a victory.Last night, 1 million people filed into Boston, Massachusetts to celebrate the 31st Annual First Night celebration. The people who attended the First Night celebration enjoyed live musical performances, ice sculptures, and finally, fire works.Tonight was a great night for the ice sculptures and the people, as temperatures where around 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 degrees Celsius).At City Hill Plaza, Mayor Thomasn Menino made an appearance and held a countdown to noon for younger people who might not be able to stay up for the festivities that were to happen later in the night.First Night celebrations were also held in Chatam, Fall River, New Bedford, and other towns and cities.Although the auditions were open to the public, few people seemed to find the location for the tryouts, since they were held on the second floor of Quincy Market because of the weather. Were it not raining, they would have been held outside.Acts vying for performance slots included Dan Foley, who has juggled chairs at the marketplace for several seasons, jugglers, and a contortionist. Musicians included The Vegas Valentinos, a loud rock and roll act reminiscient of Elvis; Apple Crisp, a father and son with a keyboard and a vibraphone; a few guitar/harmonica combinations; and Tom Bianchi, a familiar site among Boston street performers.The emcee between musical acts tried to steal the show with bad jokes. Luckily, audience members steeled themselves and braved his jokes to listen to Toby Tobas' steel drums.The judges selected performers earlier this week. Entertainment will begin on Memorial Day weekend.According to the Boston Herald, the selected acts are:Two days before the actual slug out between US-born fighter "Dangerous" David Díaz (34-1-1, 17 KOs) and challenger, a three title holder Filipino boxing champion, Emmanuel "Pacman" Pacquiao (46-3-2, 34 KOs) occurs in Las Vegas, Nevada on June 28, 2008 the two trades verbal punches at each other during a meeting with members of sports media.The camp of Manny Pacquiao led by manager Freddie Roach claimed that Diaz will need a "fucking miracle" to stop 'The Pacman' from moving up to the 135 lbs. weight class where Diaz is top brass.The side of Diaz led by Jim Strickland warned that tough Pacquiao has three belts in boxing, Diaz should not be discounted.Boxing punters observed that Diaz has a lot of heft in the way he delivers his punches but Pacquiao's speed and strong punches are something Diaz should be wary about.Pacquiao has won three different belts in three different weight classes of the World Boxing Council or WBC.Diaz debuted in the boxing world when he was part of the winning United States Olympic boxing team during the 1996 Atlanta Olympic games.The 32-year-old native of Chicago claimed the 135 lbs. title from Mexican Érik Morales and plans to defend it a third time against the Philippines' prize fighter.Meanwhile, Pacquiao dedicated his bout against Diaz to all the victims of Typhoon Fengshen which devastated his home country, the Philippines, and killed hundreds of people.Former United States Olympian boxer David Díaz surrendered his title as World Boxing Council Lightweight champion to Filipino, Emmanuel "The Pacman" Pacquiao in the ninth round.Two minutes, twenty four seconds into the ninth round, Pacquiao knocked down Diaz to become the first Asian in boxing history to win four different titles.Prior to winning the WBC Lightweight title, Pacquiao who hails from General Santos City in the Philippines was WBC super featherweight and flyweight champs and also holds the IBF super bantamweight crown, simultaneously holding the title of the super featherweight for Ring Magazine.Way before the prized fight happened at the Mandalay Bay Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada, Pacquiao's chances of trumping Diaz was high, out classing Diaz.Pacquiao was aggressive at the very beginning showing off how his right hand has improved.Pulling a lefty on Diaz on Round 4, bruising and later causing the Mexican-American's nose bridge to bleed. During Round 6, referee Vic Drakulich paused the fight to have Diaz's bleeding nose checked.Diaz was heard saying in his corner that, his (Pacquiao) punches were "too fast."Seeing that Diaz was not letting up, Pacquiao delivered punishing blows in succeeding rounds and a one-two punch hurled Diaz down to the canvass, ending the match in favor of a victorious Filipino.The Filipino boxer's record now stands at 47-3-2 with thirty six victories was won as a knockout while Diaz now has his second career-loss in his 34 win record.Pundits added a new title to Pacquiao, after grabbing titles from four Mexican fighters, he is now being called, "The Mexi-cutioner."Filipino WBC Lightweight Champion, Emmanuel "The Pacman" Pacquiao (48-3-2, 36 KOs) stopped American boxer and promoter Oscar "Golden Boy" De La Hoya (39-6, 30 KOs) after eight rounds of the "The Dream Match" in MGM Grand Garden Arena, at Las Vegas, Nevada on December 6, 2008. De La Hoya's corner threw in the towel before the start of the 9th round of the 12-round, non-title fight at the 147-pound welterweight limit. It was officially a technical knockout."Pacman" dominated the fight, from the opening bell, landing his straight left hand to the American's face, and later opens up with combinations in the seventh and eighth rounds. Two of the three judges scored all eight rounds for him, while a third gives De La Hoya the first round. Finally, Pacman gives De La Hoya a beating and closes his left eye in the eighth round. Pacquiao said, "You're still my idol." De La Hoya replied, "No, you're my idol."File:Oscardelahoya vs pacquiao.jpgThe camp of Manny Pacquiao has previously claimed that "Golden Boy" had weaknesses the Filipino boxer would exploit. Trainer Freddie Roach accurately foretold the outcome when he earlier said, "I'm not saying we're not going to knock him out. If it happens, fine. We'll take it. What we're going to do is break him down round by round. We're working on staying away from the jab and the left hook. The hook is a power shot. But Oscar makes a mistake with his jab. I'm not saying what it is, but I've seen it."Meanwhile, sportinglife.com reported that Pacquiao "confirmed he's up for a showdown with Ricky "Hitman" Hatton, telling Sky Box Office: "My job is to fight in the ring, that's the promoter's job. I can fight any time, anywhere. I can go to England to fight Hatton, no problem." Hatton replies: "Manny's proved again that he's pound-for-pound the number one in the sport and I still might get my dream of becoming the best pound-for-pound fighter in the world."Pacquiao stands to earn nearly US$15 million, which also includes his share of the pay-per-view earnings while De La Hoya is guaranteed $20 million for the fight.The title of this article is incorrect because of technical limitations.  The correct title is Boy dies on Mission: SPACE ride at Disney World.A 4-year-old-boy named Daudi Bamuwamye from Sellersville, Pennsylvania, died yesterday after collapsing on the Mission: SPACE ride in Epcot at the Walt Disney World Resort, Florida.  His mother carried him off the ride, and after attempts to revive him at the theme park by paramedics, he was declared dead in hospital.  The ride was closed after the death yesterday but, after an inspection by company engineers concluded that the ride was operating normally, re-opened.  No changes were made to the ride or to the restrictions upon who may ride it.A Disney official said in a statement that Disney officials were "providing support to the family and are doing everything we can to help them during this difficult time."  Disney spokeswoman Jacquee Polak said that "We believe the ride is safe in its current configuration."Sheri Blanton of the medical examiner's office in Orlando said that the autopsy yesterday showed no trauma, that further tests will be done, and that the cause of death may not be known for several weeks.  The sheriff's office in Orlando said that the boy met the minimum height requirement (44 inches) for the ride.The ride features 2 Gs of acceleration. While this is not abnormal for rides, several people had complained of nausea from the ride and airsickness bags had been installed on the ride itself.  Houston-based theme park consultant Randy King, a former safety director at Six Flags, said "Two Gs is not that big a deal."After 1,581 consecutive days (just shy of 4 years and 4 months), David Witthoft of Connecticut has stopped wearing his #4 Brett Favre jersey.The Ridgefield, Connecticut boy, 12, wore the No. 4 jersey every day after receiving it as a gift for Christmas in 2003. David's father, Chuck, said Monday that his son's last day wearing the jersey was April 23--his 12th birthday.Witthoft conceded his son was starting to become more concerned about his appearance after the jersey barely came down to his belt line. In 2007, Witthoft said he "would keep wearing it as long as [he] could get it over [his] head." His mother, Carolyn, had washed the jersey every other day and mended it when needed.Witthoft first gained national attention three years ago and attended his first Green Bay Packers game in December 2007 (a 34-13 Packers victory over the Detroit Lions). He's also planning to attend the September 8 game when the Packers retire Favre's No. 4 against the Chicago Bears on Monday Night Football.Witthoft has considered sending the jersey to the Green Bay Packers Hall of Fame.Boyzone manager Louis Walsh has paid tribute to the late Stephen Gately, who died unexpectedly on Saturday of "natural causes". Louis, who was a close friend of Stephen, described Gately as a "one-off".  He stated: "We're all in shock. Nobody can believe it — the guys, me, nobody.  We are in shock.  The boys are devastated.  It's like they have lost their very, very best friend, and [for me] me too."Walsh, who is a judge on The X Factor, was absent from his seat on the judges panel of the show Sunday. Fellow judge Simon Cowell paid tribute to Gately and expressed his sympathy for the family. "This is really, really tragic news," Cowell expressed. "I want to send out my condolences to the family. Our thoughts are with Louis, obviously he's not here tonight. He was incredibly close, he did a lot for Stephen."Louis also said: "He came from Sheriff Street [in Dublin, Ireland]."He was a very working-class kid. All he wanted to do was sing and go to the West End and he loved Disney, that was Stephen. Of all the people I've worked with I don't think anybody thanked me as much as Stephen. He used to always say to me, 'If I wasn't in Boyzone I don't know where I'd be today, thank you'… [he was] a great, great, great professional kid."Stephen Gately had played a crucial part in the reforming of Boyzone in 2008, after they had split up in 2000. The group were going to London, England to discuss tracks to appear on a new album. Walsh mentioned how Gately was filled with fear. "He lived in fear," said Walsh when referring to Gately's declaration of homosexuality in 1999. "He lived in absolute fear of the media and the media outed him in the end but then it was a fantastic reaction. There was no negativity."Louis Walsh also announced today that a funeral will be expected to take place in Dublin on Saturday. Gately was born and grew up in the city.Boyzone member Stephen Gately has died suddenly at the age of 33 while on holiday on the Spanish island of Majorca.Gately was on holiday with his partner Andrew Cowles when his body was found on Saturday. The information was confirmed on Boyzone's official website on Sunday. The other members of Boyzone were said to be travelling to the same island on Sunday before his death was discovered. Dan Wootton, showbusiness editor for British tabloid News of the World, told BBC News that the singer had left the means of accommodation to go out for some drinks, returned, fell asleep and never woke up again. Spanish police report his body was found on a sofa in the lounge.Louis Walsh, manager of the group and also a judge on UK television singing competition The X Factor, commented, "We're all absolutely devastated. I'm in complete shock. I was only with him on Monday at an awards ceremony. We don't know much about what's happened yet. I only heard after The X Factor and we will rally around each other this week. He was a great man."A spokesperson for Spanish police said today in Majorca, "[a]t the moment it is not known how he died. There are no signs of suspicious circumstances. "Gately's time of death was given as approximately 13.45 UTC. The police spokesperson added, "[d]etails remain pretty unclear. We managed to take a look at some documents, they tell us that police received the body around half past four. We think we know he was drinking in a bar, perhaps they went to a restaurant, but none of this is confirmed."Gately's family hope to hold his funeral in Dublin, Gately's home town. A representative of the family stated they are "shattered".Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's bodyguards have been accused of saying racial slurs to parents of an Islamic school in south Mumbai, India. The parents have told the media that the bodyguards said "YOU BLOODY INDIANS AND YOU BLOODY MUSLIMS" when they came to pick up their children from the school. The 3 bodyguards were arrested and later released on surety of Rs 25,000.Brad Pitt appeared in an interview with NDTV and denied all charges on the bodyguards. He said that the bodyguards were fathers too and would never say such a thing. Pitt also said that he would have never even chosen bodyguards who weren't tolerant towards other religions. "I have to say that we are horrified by these allegations," Pitt said in an interview for NDTV, which will broadcast tonight. The incident occurred when the gates of the school, in which they were filming, were opened up to allow parents to pick up their children.The lead singer of Boston, Brad Delp was found dead in his house alone last Friday.The Atkinson police have stated that there was no "foul play" involved, and the cause was still under investigation by the medical examiner.After the death, the bands website went down and was replaced with the message: "We just lost the nicest guy in rock and roll."Delp joined Boston in the ealry 70's after meeting with guitarist, songwriter and producer Tom Scholz.  The group later signed with the Epic label.Their first album, which was self titled, was a huge success.  The album had hits on it such as "Long Time" and "More than a Feeling".Delp left the band in 1991, and was replaced by Fran Cosmo.  Delp rejoined the band later for the Walk On tour, and shared vocal duties with Cosmo.  A new album with Delp singing was reported to have been in the making, but no release date was ever given.Described in press materials as a "low budget" production, the crew of Bratz: The Movie turned to a busy LA high school to film the picture's main scenes.Shot in 30 days, during February and March 2007, the film had to work around the roughly 3,500 students at Santee Educational Complex in South Los Angeles, California. Most productions, like High School Musical and Degrassi: The Next Generation, do principal photography shoots during the summer. Since the Bratz film had a summer release, and the Santee school goes year-round, such a pattern was impossible.Director Sean McNamara "was adamant about using this school", named in the film as "Carry Nation High", said production designer Rusty Smith. "We knew it was going to be complicated, and it was, but we pulled it off. I'm sure it was a big distraction for us to be there and it's really a compliment to the principal and the students’ cooperation because we couldn’t have done it without them."One of the stars, Chelsea Staub, agreed. "I was amazed at how orderly and respectful the students at Santee High were during our invasion." She admits that she "would have had issues walking by our heavenly omelet station every morning," if she were a Santee student.Such good behavior could be deemed extra surprising considering the school, which opened in 2005, is located in an area known for its amount of gangs. Some students walk through 50 different gang "territories" on the way to school, 18 of which have documented members enrolled as students. Students have brought AK-47s to class, and jumped police officers for their guns. A two day melee at the school, whose principal is a former cop, resulted in 34 arrests and 10 hospitalizations, mostly for pepper-spray-related injuries. Half of the instructors, as of March 2006, were in their first year of teaching.The school board superintendent and Los Angeles mayor Antonio Villaraigosa rode the bus to the first day the bus was routed through the neighbourhood; a photographer for the Los Angeles Times caught a 10th grader tagging a window. The first gun shots rang out the second day the school was open.Bratz: The Movie is a story based on an internationally successful line of dolls. Three "best friends forever" are forced by the queen bee of the high school to separate into various existing cliques. Growing lonely, they rebel by choosing to be true to themselves."Filming at a real high school was interesting because you could see real cliques and compare them to the simulated cliques in the movie," commented  Logan Browning, one of the movie's stars, herself a senior in high school.Staub, who plays the antagonist Meredith, also felt the real-life location was beneficial to the movie. "All the sounds and background images helped make it real for me. The shifting echoes of students on the bleachers and school bells that released the chaos of kids changing classes made me feel like I was truly a part of the high school experience as opposed to doing a scene on a soundstage.""The presence of that school and the way it's laid out, almost like a prison, became a major character in the film," said production designer Rusty Smith. (Interestingly, Meredith's mantra in the movie is "take no prisoners".) The school, devoid of color, easily contrasted against the vibrant and unique bedrooms of the Bratz girls. "We knew it was going to be complicated and it was but we pulled it off. I'm sure it was a big distraction for us to be there and it's really a compliment to the principal and the students' cooperation because we couldn't have done it without them."A 16-foot high sculpture was added to the school courtyard, to help transform it into Carry Nation. The sculpture was of Nation, the most infamous and formidable member of the Women's Christian Temperance Union in pre-prohibition America, wielding her hatchet in one hand and Bible in the other.The production also filmed in the residential neighborhood of Studio City, and The Grove, a popular shopping centre at the heart of West Hollywood, both areas of Los Angeles.The film opens in theaters across the United States and Canada on August 3, in the United Kingdom on August 17, in Spain on August 24, and Australia and New Zealand September 20.The newly elected Chair of the Wikimedia Foundation scheduled talk on the main French TV was met with questions about a last minute deletion of the entry for bravitude, (a neologism used by Ségolène Royal, the French socialist presidential candidate and commonly heard in the French media). It was deleted from the French version of Wikipedia not long prior to the televised appearance by Devouard. The decision to delete the entry apparently perplexed the anchor commentator, who judged the term was currently noteworthy and felt his view was shared by many Frenchmen today. Chair Nibart-Devouard then explained that since Wikipedia is written collaboratively by volunteers, its articles can be and are edited by almost anyone with access to the Web site.  Therefore any article, including one on bravitude, can be added to this Wiki encyclopedia... but the article can be modified or even deleted if the verification process leads to a consensus to do so.One might speculate whether the French media interest in the French Wikipedia's deletion of the term bravitude will result in sufficient discussion to warrant this neologism being restored to the French Wikipedia.HAVANA, Cuba —On Feb. 3, 2005, the Brazilian Minister of Education, Tarso Genro, opened the XIV International Fair of Books in Havana during his five day visit to Cuba. The fair is scheduled to continue until February 13, 2005.Minister Genro opened the fair saying, "Cuba and Brazil have the same mixture and the same condition of sovereign nations." According to Genro, it was a honor for Brazil to be invited to the fair, where the country was the guest of honor.At the fair, the Ambassador of Brazil in Cuba, Tilden Santiago, spoke in name of the Brazilian President, Lula, that the Fair of Books will help to strengthen the relatioship between both countries. "Between Brazil and Cuba there is a tradition of friendship which goes back to Cândido Portinari and Nicholas Guillén, Leo Brower and Egberto Gismont, and Alfredo Guevara and Glauber Rocha," he added. The Brazilian delegation donated 400 complete book collections to Cuba. The Brazilian addition to the fair included lectures, handiwork, films, literature, music, poetry, art demos and shows, and information on politics and history. Genro also met with Fidel Castro, President of Cuba.  Among the subjects discussed were the interchanges between both countries in the educational field, relationships between universities, value of the Spanish language, Cuban methods of alphabetization, and Brazilian undergraduate students in Cuba.Brazilian comedienne and actress Dercy Gonçalves has died at the age of 101. Gonçalves died of pneumonia on Saturday in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.She was born Dolores Gonçalves Costa on June 23, 1907 in Santa Maria Madalena, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In her 80-year long career, Gonçalves has worked in the theater, revues, film, radio and television, becoming famous by her humorous use of vulgar language.Brazil —The Brazilian Carnival season opened Sunday, February 6. The annual festival is scheduled to continue until Tuesday, February 15 (longer in some regions).The samba schools parade in Rio de Janeiro is scheduled for the first day. The parade occurs at the Sambódromo plaza, a place which was constructed specially for the event. Thousands of onlookers and participants are expected for the televised event, starting at 9:00 p.m. local time and continuing without interruption until Monday morning around 6:00 a.m. The parade will then restart Monday night at 9:00 p.m.The samba schools which are scheduled to be in Sambódromo plaza Sunday, February 6 are: Mocidade, Império Serrano, Salgueiro, Mangueira, Unidos da Tijuca, Tradição and Vila Isabel. Monday, February 7, the following schools are scheduled: Porto da Pedra, Caprichosos, Viradouro, Portela, Imperatriz, Grande Rio and Beija-Flor.Although the samba schools' parade in Rio de Janeiro is a great event of the Brazilian carnival, the Brazilian people also celebrate carnival in another ways: going out to the streets, going to saloons, participating in blocos and bandas and following the Trio Elétrico.Anorexia nervosa claimed the life of another model. Ana Carolina Reston was 21 years old when she died on November 14 in São Paulo from a generalized infection caused by anorexia, an eating disorder in which sufferers obsessively deprive themselves of food in pursuit of an ultra-slim look.She was 5'8'' tall and weighed only 88 pounds. Doctors consider this weight normal for a 12-year-old girl who is no more than 5 feet tall. Her mother has revealed to the press that her diet, since the last two months, consisted only of apples and tomatoes.Reston's death is set to strengthen claims of links between the fashion industry and eating disorders. It comes shortly after one of Europe's most prestigious catwalk shows, in the Spanish capital, banned underweight models, using their body mass index as a guide.It was the death of another model, Luisel Ramos from Uruguay that first cast light on the problem of models starving themselves to achieve "the perfect form". Ramos died of a heart failure during a fashion show.Anorexia is a common eating disorder in which people strive to get thin because they think that they are overweight.The Bremer Freimarkt (Free Fair) — historically one of the oldest fairs in Germany — has its greatest event with the Free Fair Procession "Freimarktsumzug"; this year's Freimarktsumzug took place Saturday.The procession started Saturday morning on the opposite side of the river Weser in the "Neustadt" and passed the city hall about one hour later. 146 colorfully decorated groups were taking part, some of them dancing to their own music, and were watched by about 200.000 people in the streets during more than four hours of the whole performance. The event could also be viewed on television and on livestream on the web. The Free Fair opened on the place behind the main station of the city of Bremen a week ago. The origin of this popular event can be traced back to the year 1035. Nowadays it has been called the "biggest Fairground Festival in northern Germany".  For a few years, an historical spectacle involving actors of the theatre group Shakespeare Company has been part of the opening performance of the fair. With a replica of an old cog an ambassador enters the banks of the river Weser close to the city and walks with his companions to the market place in front of the city hall of Bremen where the Kleiner Freimarkt (Small Free Fair) is opened. Members of the Chimney Sweep Guild hang up a big heart at the statue of Roland as a sign of the opened market. The traditional opening takes place in the Bavarian tent on the Bürgerweide behind the main station of Bremen with the tapping of the first keg by the incumbent Senator of the Interior of the Free Hansetown of Bremen. This is followed by the dance with Miss Free Market on the stage. Late at night, also fireworks are lighted over the place Bürgerweide and can be admired by people. The exclamation Ischa Freimaak (It's Free Fair) is meant to spread a relaxed and unreserved atmosphere among the guests. The fair is a major source of revenue for showmen, carousels and food stalls, some of which arrived nearly two weeks before the opening from all over Germany. This year the Freimarkt is to last until Sunday November 4. The subsequent disassembly, especially the technically complex rides, should then take about ten days.Mainstream rock singer Brian Melo has been crowned winner of Canadian Idol 2007 (Season five). The 25-year old Hamilton, Ontario native sang in front of an audience at the Air Canada Place in Toronto, Ontario. The show was two-hours.Seventeen year old Johnny Cash and Elvis-inspired country singer Jaydee Bixby of Drumheller, Alberta finished in second.The Canadian Idol Top 10 started off the show last night singing Jon Bon Jovi's "You Give Love a Bad Name".The top 10, and a duet with the top two, did several performances throughout the show.Canadian-International pop-rock singer Avril Lavigne performed "Hot" and "When You're Gone" from her third new album the "Best Damn Thing".Season four winner of Canadian Idol, Eva Avila performed her song "Fallin' For You". Melo and Bixby presented her with gold and platinum disk awards for her debut single "Meant To Fly" and her debut album "Somewhere Else".Country-rock singer Jon Bon Jovi, who mentored the singers for Monday's performances, sang their new song "Lost Highway" and 2000 song "It's My Life".Canadian Idol allowed auditioners, their top 22, and top 10 to perform with instruments this year. No other Idol shows have allowed this. Top ten competitors Greg Neufeld sang and performed with his guitar and Dwight d'Eon sang and performed with his electrical guitar, with the top 10 last night.Canadian Idol's official top 3 competitors, including top three's eliminated Carly Rae Jepson from Mission, British Columbia, are set to have an "Idol Winner's" tour across 15 Canadian cities this fall. The tour will start November 18, 2007 in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. They are expected to tour cities in Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland, Ontario, Manitoba, Alberta, Saskatchewan and British Columbia. It finishes with a final show in Edmonton, Alberta on December 12, 2007.It's the first tour the show has ever done.Melo, the winner, was a construction worker in Hamilton. He auditioned at the nearby Toronto auditions.At the beginning of the season Bixby and Melo appeared as stiff performers but changed drastically throughout the weeks. Melo was in the bottom three, three times."Just remember that you are so privileged and enjoy every minute but you never know how long it's going to last," Avila said before the winner was announced by host Ben Mulroney.An estimated five million votes were cast following Monday's performances.Local Hamiltonians gathered last night at Hamilton Place Theatre. Approximately 2,000 fans were there. Most people and fans from, or around, the town of Drumheller gathered in a local hockey rink to show their support for Bixby.Melo's new single "All I Ever Wanted" will be released on radio's and online music stores through Sony BMG Music Canada at 12:00am on September 13, 2007. His debut album will be out this winter."I want to grow and get better with each album. I want to be an international star, I'm thinking of big things. I want to hit the American market, I want to hit the European market as much as I can," Melo said.Melo says he will go the full way and write songs for his album. He also said he has planned dates to meet with songwriters for some input on what he'll write."But being in this process, there's been so many songwriters, so many great musicians that haven't gotten the credit . . . that they deserve. So hopefully I'll be able to change that," Melo said."'Keep positive, keep on the positive side of things'," Bixby said. "And you know, there's nothing negative about coming in second in a national audition, so I'm very happy. I'm glad I made my parents proud.""I didn't think a year ago that I would be standing here. If it wasn't for the fans, my friends, my family and everyone in the Hammer... (Hamilton) It's been amazing," said Melo.The Bristol Harbour Festival 2008, which is expected to have 200,000 people attending over the weekend, has been launched in the British city of Bristol. The event features a variety of different bands and circus acts. The festival resulted in the closure of some of the roads in the centre of Bristol. Well known ships from the Royal Navy were also displayed in the event.Organisers have claimed that the event is the biggest free event in the South West of England. The director of the event told BBC News that "it is a unique opportunity for a weekend of celebrations of the Bristol harbourside and its yachting and shipping history." Bristol was a major port in the 18th and 19th century, and the city's involvement in the slave trade, and its abolition in 1807 has been highlighted in previous years of the festival, which was launched in 1871.The police presence at the festival was high, although no higher than in previous years.The Bristol Organic Food Festival, which is Europe's largest festival for organic food, launched today in Bristol. Wikinews reported from the event.The event was opened at 11:00 local time (10:00 UTC) by Patrick Holden, director of the Soil Association, who said that the festival was " the benchmark for what I hope will be the future development of festivals all over the country."The event includes a large farmers market, music, and a variety of different features run by 212 organic food and drink related organisations from the region. Other events that took place today within the festival incuded a BBC run stall promoting organic food, and several stalls which encouraged young children to eat organic food, including a 'cookery bus,' which showed children how to cook different foods. The festival takes place as sales of organic food in the UK are starting to fall. Research has found that organic food sales have fallen by 8.1% over the last year.The event was launched despite the heavy rain which has occurred throughout the day in Bristol."People have got less money, their ordinary food shopping has gone through the roof; they're cutting out luxuries. And I'm afraid organic is a luxury," said economic analyst Ben Yearsley. This downturn in the organic food market has meant that some companies, such as WholeFoods Market are planning to close some of their stores. WholeFoods Market are one of the organisations that displayed at the festival.Tributes are being paid following the announcement late last night that the veteran British actor and comedian Sir Norman Wisdom has died at the age of 95.  He passed away peacefully at the Abbot's Wood nursing home, Ballasalla, Isle of Man yesterday evening. Following a series of strokes over the last 6 months, his health had declined severely.Sir Norman's career spanned almost seven decades, during which time he starred in 19 films, and 38 sitcoms, most as the inept character "Pitkin", the persistant thorn in the side of his boss, Mr. Grimsdale.  His most well known serious role came in the television play Going Gently in 1981, for ITV, in which he played a patient in hospital suffering from terminal cancer.Following the news, the Albanian Ambassador in the UK, Zef Mazi explained that Sir Norman's death was covered on all the news channels in Albania, where he was exceptionally popular. His material was the only Western-style comedy permitted to be shown in the Communist country.  "After Charlie Chaplin, he was the biggest comedy star in Albania. I still remember his character Pitkin and his boss Mr Grimsdale," he said.  "He was very popular with everyone from very young people to very old people and he made us laugh at a time, in the communist period, when there were not many reasons to laugh."The Isle of Man's Chief Minister, Tony Brown MHK, said that he was "deeply saddened" to have heard of the death.  He is quoted as having said "[w]e were very fortunate indeed that Sir Norman chose to make the Isle of Man his home. He was a wonderful asset to the local community and made a tremendous contribution to countless Island charities and good causes."He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in her conferred role as Lord of Mann on his 90th birthday in 2005, at the same time being made a Freeman of the Borough of Douglas.  The announcement of Sir Norman's death was confirmed by his son and family in a statement last night.The British stage and television actor John Inman has died at the age of 71.  Mr. Inman, born in Preston, Lancashire, had been suffering from the Hepatitis A infection for some time."John, through his character Mr. Humphries of Are You Being Served? was known and loved throughout the world. He was one of the best and finest pantomime dames working to capacity audiences throughout Britain," said Inman's manager, Phil Dale.Most famous for his role in the BBC comedy series Are You Being Served?, Inman entered popular culture with his appearance as the camp store assistant, Mr Humphries, and popularised the catchphrase "I'm Free!" across British society.Tributes from across the acting and stage professions have been coming in all morning, since the death was announced by Mr Inman's spokesman earlier this morning. According to the Londonpaper, dated 8th of March, Inman's long-term partner, Ron Lynch, was said to be "devastated" at his death.  His co-star, Wendy Richard who played opposite him in the BBC show, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme,  "John was one of the wittiest and most inventive actors I've ever worked with. He was a brilliant, brilliant pantomime dame and he was a very good all-round actor, really. He was a true professional." Inman’s manager Phil Dale told the BBC - "John was known and loved throughout the world. He was one of the best and finest pantomime dames working to capacity audiences throughout Britain". Mike Berry, who played Mr Spooner in Are You Being Served?, told the BBC: "I felt like going home at the end of the day and ironing my face, he made me laugh so much! As funny as he was in front of the camera, he was funnier off.”It was revealed on Friday, March 9 that Australia's premier gay and lesbian publication, SX, would publish a special tribute in Inman's honour, commemorating the actor with a feature article written by the magazine's star journalists, Katrina Fox and Peter Hackney.British actor  Tony Booth died on Monday at age 85, according to his family. He is best known for his role in the TV comedy Till Death Us Do Part.  He is also known for his daughter Cherie Blair, wife of former British prime minister Tony Blair.Booth had a long acting career. He was star of Till Death Us Do Part in the 1960s, where he played the part of Mike Rawlings. He also played in Coronation Street,  EastEnders,  Emmerdale, and  The Bill on TV, as well as playing in numerous films.  In 1998 he became president of Equity, the British trade union for actors.As well as Cherie Blair, Booth also fathered seven other daughters, some out of wedlock, and had four marriages. He had a reputation as a womanizer, a heavy drinker, and a charmer. Booth lived with  Alzheimer's disease for a long time. He was diagnosed in 2004. He also suffered heart problems.Emily Perry, a British actress has died at the age of 100.Born on June 28, 1907 in Torquay, Devon, England, she was known for playing   Madge Allsop, Dame Edna Everage's long-suffering, silent "bridesmaid"; she began playing the role at the age of 80.Barry Humphries (Dame Edna) said, "It is a great loss to me, she was a close friend."As an actress in her own right, her filmography is limited to her appearances with Dame Edna, except for a 1995 appearance, in her late eighties, on an episode of Last of the Summer Wine as "Mrs. Broadbent".She appeared as herself in Night of a Thousand Faces. Prior to gaining fame, Perry spent 25 years running a dancing school for children.British actress Maggie Jones has died at the age of 75. The actress was best known for playing the role of Blanche Hunt in the British soap opera Coronation Street. She died on Wednesday morning in hospital. Jones played Blanche for 35 years but did not become a main character until 1999. Jones played several different characters on the set of the soap, originally appearing as a police woman in 1961.Jones was admitted to hospital in October of this year for "life saving" surgery. It is still currently unknown what she was admitted for. The script writers for the show had to write her out of storylines. Because the show is written six weeks in advance she appeared up until recently.An ITV spokeswoman released a statement acknowledging the passing of Jones.  William Roache, who plays Ken Barlow on the show, said that Jones was a "brilliant actress" and had an "amazing dry wit".  He added: "I don't think Maggie ever realised how much she was loved — not only by everyone on the show but by the millions of Blanche fans out there. She will be greatly missed."British actress Natasha Richardson has died, according to a statement released by a spokesperson. Richardson died after suffering a head injury from a fall, while she was receiving private skiing lessons at a Canadian resort in Mont-Tremblant, Quebec. She was 45 years old."Liam Neeson, his sons, and the entire family are shocked and devastated by the tragic death of their beloved Natasha. They are profoundly grateful for the support, love and prayers of everyone, and ask for privacy during this very difficult time," said a spokesperson for Richardson in a statement to the press.It was reported Tuesday that Richardson was brain dead and had been transported by plane from Sacré-Cœur Hospital in Montreal, Canada to a care facility in New York City in the United States. Despite the fall, which happened on Monday, witnesses say she did not appear to have been seriously injured. Richardson was not wearing a helmet. An hour after the fall and after she returned to her hotel room, Richardson began to feel ill and was taken to a local hospital. She was later transported to Sacré-Coeur Hospital.Richardson made her movie debut in 1986 when she starred in the motion picture Gothic. In 1988 she was cast as the starring role in the film Patty Hearst. She also co-stared in the films Nell and the 1998 remake of The Parent Trap. She also won a Tony Award in 1998 for her portrayal of Sally Bowles in the acclaimed revival of Cabaret.Richardson was also known for her cooking, having been a judge on the American television show Top Chef. She has hosted several upscale dinner parties in which she was the cook. Known names to have been part of her dinner parties are Meryl Streep and Laura Linney, among others.Richardson is survived by her husband, actor Liam Neeson, and her two sons, Daniel Jack age 12 and Micheal Richard Antonio age 13.According to conflicting reports, British actress Natasha Richardson is brain dead following a severe head injury from a skiing accident on Monday. The New York Post reported that friends of Richardson said she "was brain dead", after earlier reporting that she was "dead". They later issued a correction which said she was brain dead. Other media reports say that her brain is severely swollen. Fox News Channel also reports Richardson as brain dead.Richardson was transported by plane from Sacré-Coeur Hospital in Montreal, Canada to a care facility in New York City in the United States. She remains in very critical condition and reports say she is not likely to survive. Once in the U.S., she will be taken off life support.Richardson, 45, was taking a private skiing lesson in Mont-Tremblant in Quebec when reports say she fell, hitting her head. Despite the fall, witnesses say she did not appear to have been seriously injured. An hour after the fall and after she returned to her hotel room, Richardson began to feel ill and was taken to a local hospital. She was later transported to Sacré-Coeur Hospital."She was talking and making jokes and there was no sign of any apparent injury. She said she was okay and didn't want to go to hospital or see a doctor. About an hour later she said she was not feeling that good after all. She said she had a headache. They agreed to dial 911 and an ambulance came to take her away," Mont-Tremblant resort ski station spokeswoman Catherine Lacasse to The Daily Telegraph.Richardson's husband, actor Liam Neeson, has left Toronto where he was filming a movie and will be with Natasha when she arrives in the U.S.. He was acting in the movie 'Chloe', which was being filmed in the area. Both were staying at the resort in Mont-Tremblant. The couple have two children who were also staying with them, Daniel Jack age 12 and Micheal Richard Antonio age 13. They are said to have been skiing with their mother when she fell."Liam Neeson left the Toronto set immediately to fly to Montreal upon news of his wife’s accident. We do not have any details at this time, but we hope for the best and our thoughts and prayers are with Natasha and Liam and their family," said spokespeople for Neeson in a statement to the press. Richardson's family and spokespeople are expected to issue a statement sometime after she arrives in New York City.British author James Graham Ballard, known as J. G. Ballard has died at the age of 78. Ballard died on Sunday after a long battle with prostate cancer. According to a spokesperson, Ballard had been sick "for several years" and that it was "with great sadness" to have to make the announcement of his death. He died at the home of his long-time partner. Ballard is best known for writing the novels Crash in 1973 and Empire of the Sun in 1984 which won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize. Both books  went on to be major motion pictures."He was a colonial figure in some senses. He had grown up in Shanghai and had very good manners. He was very generous and polite and it took a long while before he would do anything that wasn’t very controlled," said friend and author Iain Sinclair to The Times.Ballard was born in Shanghai, China in the Shanghai International Settlement in 1930. When he was 12, he and his family were forced to live in a camp run by Japanese forces during World War II. Ballard says that he won't say happy things about his experience in the camp, but also no unpleasant ones either. In an interview with BBC News, Ballard said "I remember a lot of the casual brutality and beatings-up that went on, but at the same time we children were playing a hundred and one games all the time."In 1946 he moved to the UK with his sister and mother where he began to write. Twenty years later, in the 1960's, he employed himself as a full time writer. He produced his first novel in 1961 titled The Wind from Nowhere and The Drowned World just a year later.The UK Film Council has said British films claimed a record one-third share of UK cinema takings last year.The council has also revealed that Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire was Britain's top-grossing film in 2005 after taking £435m ($808m) at the Box Office worldwide. It was one of eight British films to be included in the top 20 list of the world's biggest grossing movies. Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Batman Begins, Kingdom of Heaven, Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit,  The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, Nanny McPhee and  Pride and Prejudice took £1.8bn ($3.3) in total globally and were seen by 600 million people. John Woodward, the chief executive officer of the UK Film Council, said: "The figures show that the public love British films and 2005 was a great year for British films at the cinema with the largest slice of Box Office takings since records began."Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell|, who has exposed tax incentives aimed at luring filmmakers to the UK, said: "Harry Potter, Nanny McPhee and Willy Wonka have all been hits at home and abroad - helping us achieve great success at the Box Office. I hope that next year, buoyed by the new tax incentive, the UK film industry will be in even better health."The amount of British people viewing foreign language films also increased. More than 200 foreign language films in 32 different languages were shown at cinemas across the UK. Downfall, a German-produced movie depicting the final days of Adolf Hitler, was the most popular, according to the council. Movies are classed as being UK-made if they are filmed in the country, star UK personalities, and invest money in the UK or on British staff and services.Veteran broadcaster and documentary maker Sir David Attenborough has said how he has received hate mail from creationists. The letters tell him to "Burn in Hell" after not crediting God in his natural history documentaries.Fred Drummond, director of the Scottish branch of the Evangelical Alliance, notes that this hatred is "not representative of Evangelical Christians in the UK."During an interview with BBC Radio 2 Attenborough was asked why he did not credit God in his shows, he replied saying how he always remembers a little child in East Africa with a worm burrowing through his eyeball. The worm cannot live in any other way. "I find that hard to reconcile with the notion of a divine and benevolent creator," Attenborough said.Attenborough had previously criticised schools for teaching creationism alongside evolution. He said it was "terrible" when the two were taught as equal. He added "Evolution is not a theory, it's a fact, every bit as much as the historical fact that William the Conqueror landed in 1066."   Attenborough joined the BBC in 1952 and created several series on the animal kingdom. His most recent documentary, a series about Charles Darwin and evolution, is due to be broadcast in the UK at the beginning of February.British television celebrity Jade Goody of Big Brother fame has been diagnosed with cervical cancer.Goody, 27, arrived in London Heathrow Airport on Tuesday night, having cut short her stay in the Indian version of Celebrity Big Brother, known as Bigg Boss. Goody was a controversial character in last year's Big Brother, sparking over 40,000 complaints to Ofcom, the British broadcasting regulator after she allegedly made racist and defamatory remarks to fellow housemate and Indian celebrity Shilpa Shetty.Goody has stated she agreed to take part on the Indian version of the show as an attempt to make up for her behaviour last year. Shetty is hosting the show, and has stated that her "prayers are with Jade."Goody has been accused of making the announcement as a publicity stunt, but her spokesman has dismissed this as "ridiculous". Goody has stated she "will worry for [her] boys if [she] get[s] unwell". She said that she entered the house, despite undergoing medical tests, because she "can't wait around for the doctors" and that bills need paying.Goody is said to have signed a contract worth £100,000 with Bigg Boss before her departure from the show. She is expected to undergo medical tests so doctors can see how far the cancer has spread.British television celebrity Jade Goody of Big Brother fame has died today after a long battle with cervical cancer in Upshire, Essex, England at the age of 27, which was Mother's Day in the UK, and the one month anniversary of her marriage to Jack Tweed.She was born Jade Cerisa Lorraine Goody on June 5, 1981 in Bermondsey, London, England. In January 2007, she was a housemate in Celebrity Big Brother. During the show she was accused of racist bullying against Indian actress Shilpa Shetty.The funeral will take place next Sunday, which is described by Max Clifford, Goody's publicist as a "Jade Goody Production".British chef Keith Floyd has died at the age of 65 after a heart attack in Dorset, England.Keith Floyd was best known for his cookery programmes, particularly on British television channel BBC, although he has also featured on shows on ITV. He was arguably most popular for his Floyd on series, with shows like Floyd on Food, Floyd on Spain, Floyd on Italy etc. He also presented Floyd on GMTV in 1998. Keith had been presenting programmes from 1984 to 2001.On July 29, it was reported that Floyd had been diagnosed with bowel cancer in June. After undergoing five serious operations, 90% of the cancer was removed. He later had chemotherapy. He died on Monday of a heart attack in his partner's house in Dorset, England.Famous chefs around the world have been expressing their sadness for his death and made comments about him to British newspaper, The Guardian.  Among them was Rick Stein, who said, "I first met Keith in the early 80s.  He used to come to the restaurant regularly and knew Padstow well because his first wife came from Port Isaac.  At a time when I was experimenting with Provençal dishes like Bouillabaisse and Bourride he was a Gauloise-smoking, red wine drinking hero who had actually owned a restaurant next to the Mediterranean.  One thing was certain — he cooked like a dream and loved food and wine with a passion."Other cooks such as Michel Roux, Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall and Heston Blumenthal expressed condolences. Gordon Ramsay stated, "Keith Floyd was a true original. A natural performer and a superb cook, he broke new ground with his programmes and his contribution to television cookery was immense."Marco Pierre White stated that, "A little piece of Britain died yesterday which will never be replaced. He was an individual, he was a maverick, he was mercurial, he was magical, he was special, he was rare."Keith Floyd died on September 14, the same day a documentary was broadcast on Channel 4 called Keith Meets Keith, which featured comedian Keith Allen interviewing Keith Floyd. It emerged that his death was just a few hours beforehand, however the information was unknown at the time of broadcast.Celia Martin, who was staying with Floyd at the time of his death, gave an interview with London local newspaper Evening Standard."When we got home he had a siesta and got up feeling a bit headachy. We had both eaten a lot so I put it down to that. He laid down on the sofa and I thought he went to sleep. Then suddenly his breathing became erratic," Martin said. "I phoned for an ambulance and the operator gave me instructions on how to help him. He didn't say anything at all. The ambulance people were here for about an hour. They thought there was a chance they could save him. It was so bizarre, we were sitting down to watch the documentary at 10pm but by that time he had died."British comedian Eddie Izzard has completed a series of 43 marathons in just 51 days to raise money for Sport Relief, a charity based in the United Kingdom.The marathons covered a total running distance of 1,100 miles (1,700 kilometers) across the United Kingdom. He ran from London, England, to Cardiff, Wales, to Belfast, Northern Ireland, to Edinburgh, Scotland and back to London again. Izzard carried a flag of each of the four countries depending on which one he was running in.Eddie is 47 years old and had spent just five weeks training for the event. He crossed the finish line on Tuesday in Trafalgar Square in London during a rainfall. He said to waiting journalists: "I feel dead."In an interview with BBC News, he commented: "I don't know what the hell I was doing at the end but it must have been way faster than I was doing the rest of the time. So I feel exhausted now, but you know, it's over. Being here is very nice because, when I left here seven-and-a-half weeks ago, there was nothing here, it was just a cold morning and now there's a lot of people here, even in the rain."The well loved British comedian and comedy writer Ronnie Barker has died aged 76, of heart failure.He was well known for his role in 'The Two Ronnies' alongside Ronnie Corbett, as well as playing Fletch in 'Porridge' and Arkwright in 'Open All Hours'.On his death, Ronnie Corbett described his partner as 'pure gold in triplicate - as a performer, a writer and a friend'.With photographers and media gathering for an appearance by Paris Hilton, who is sentenced to serve jail time, the fashion industry has joined the 'free or jail Paris Hilton debate.' British company Mio Destino designed a line of prison-striped lingerie embroidered with the words 'Free Paris' in support of Hilton. A 'Jail Paris' embroidery was later added to the lingerie following intense demand.The 45 day jail sentence is scheduled to begin on Tuesday at the Century Regional Detention Center in suburban Lynwood, Los Angeles County after Hilton was convicted of driving recklessly for traveling at a speed of 70 miles per hour in a 35 miles per hour zone with no headlights after dark in February this year. The offense occurred while her driver's license was suspended after a driving under the influence conviction last November.Hilton added her signature to an online petition, Free Paris Hilton, hosted by iPetitions, that appealed to California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger for a pardon. The petition states that Hilton "didn't hurt or kill anyone, and she has learned her lesson. She is sincere, apologetic, and full of regret for her actions as she explained tearfully to the Judge handling her case in court yesterday. She is distraught and understandably afraid." The petition has garnered over 30,000 signatures.A counter petition, again hosted by iPetitions, calling for Hilton's imprisonment received 87,715 signatures as of Sunday.With good behavior while serving time, Hilton may be able to get out of jail in 23 days.British police announced yesterday they believe they have arrested most of the confederates of suicide bomber Salman Abedi, who attacked an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester this Monday, killing 22 and injuring 116, of whom 23 were still in critical condition.  As of this morning, eleven people were being held for questioning.  One woman and one teenage boy were questioned and released. Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, Britain's counterterrorism chief, reassured the public yesterday."Enjoy yourselves and be reassured by the greater policing presence you will see," said Rowley. "We can't let the terrorists win by dissuading us from going about our normal business." However, the official threat level of critical, indicating another attack may be imminent, is still in place this weekend.  Officers equipped with firearms, which are not as common in the United Kingdom as in the United States, patrol some streets and beaches.Police and other experts said they believe Abedi, 22, could not have built such a sophisticated bomb by himself and must have had accomplices.  The nuts and bolts inside it had been arranged with care to cause maximum damage, as if the person who made it had some experience."I think he saw children, Muslim children, dying everywhere," Abedi's sister Jomana told reporters concerning her brother's motives. "He saw the explosives America drops on children in Syria, and he wanted revenge. Whether he got that is between him and God." According to CNN, a friend of the Abedi family said Abedi wanted revenge for the gang killing of a friend.Several members of the Muslim community in Manchester, including the imam of his local mosque, had contacted authorities about Abedi, who had been expressing extremist and violent views for some time.Abedi was born and raised in Manchester to parents who fled Gaddafi-era Libya.  His father returned there after the 2011 regime change and Abedi and his mother and brother joined him later.  Abedi reportedly returned to the United Kingdom shortly before the bombing."[T]here has been enormous progress with the investigation, but still an awful lot of work to do" Manchester police chief constable Ian Hopkins told the press. He also said the rate of hate crimes in his jurisdiction had nearly doubled this week, from 28 daily to 56.Robert Anker, a British dancer and member of troupe Diversity when they won the 2009 season of Britain's Got Talent, died in a car accident in Canada on Thursday. Anker died after a collision between his Chevrolet Cobalt and a Ford pick-up truck. The accident occurred in Vaughan, Ontario at around 6:00 AM Thursday morning, local time. Anker, who moved to Canada last year, was 27 years old.York Regional Police confirmed the accident had occurred and the driver of the pick-up truck was not injured. A spokesman for the British Foreign Office said "We are aware of the death of a British man in Canada. We are providing assistance to his family at this sad time".Anker's cousin Rochelle Hanson set up a JustGiving page, by yesterday already past its target of £5,000, to raise funds for his family to travel to the funeral in Canada. Hanson said "The family are devastated. He was an amazing and talented dancer. We would love to ensure that his family don’t worry or stress about money at this time."Diversity, Anker's former dance crew, tweeted "A former member of our group has tragically passed away. He inspired so many with his talent and was taken far too soon. R.I.P Rob." The Twitter account for Britain's Got Talent said "We are so sorry to hear of the loss of Robert Anker, our thoughts and condolences go out to his friends, family and the whole of Diversity."Dean Lee, a choreographer on talent show The X Factor, tweeted, "Rob Anker. I have no words to speak after hearing of your passing. This is truly heart breaking. Thanks for the memories. Shine bright."After winning the 2009 series of Britain's Got Talent, Anker performed in music videos of singers Jessie J and Paloma Faith, and in the production of Thriller Live in the West End. Anker and his girlfriend Cyndi married in September.Faithless, an electronica band from the United Kingdom, have made the announcement that they are to separate at the end of their current tour. Their current tour is expected to conclude at the O2 Academy, Brixton on April 8, 2011. In a statement, Maxi Jazz, a singer from the group said that "[a]fter 15 years and six albums I think we've probably made our collective point by now and that it's time to close the book and return to the library." The rapper commented explained that "[w]e've had, with our fans, the most unbelievable, epic and moving experience, stretching over years and tens of thousands of miles. Joyful, exhilarating and empowering, we never for a moment thought an affair could last this long."The group launched fifteen years ago. It consisted of three members, known as Maxi Jazz, Sister Bliss and Rollo Armstrong. Insomnia, God Is a DJ and We Come 1 are amongst the most famous muscial works that have been released from Faithless.After suffering severe frostbite the British explorer Sir Ranulph Fiennes has decided to pull out from The Coldest Journey expedition across Antarctica. The 68-year-old was frostbitten whilst training at a base camp in Antarctica. He fell over and fixed a ski with his bare hands in roughly -30C temperatures.He is now on his way to Cape Town after several days of blizzard conditions halted his evacuation. Despite his withdrawal, the expedition is to continue without him and his fellow team members are to trek the 2,000 miles (3,219km) across Antarctica from Novolazarevskaya Station (Novo) to the Ross Sea starting on March 21, at the autumnal equinox and approaching winter, taking six months. A team successfully travelled approximately 70km to transport him by snowmobile to the Princess Elisabeth Station.  He is now to be flown on to Novo for a flight to Cape Town.Organisers of The Coldest Journey expedition said in a statement, "The condition is such that he has very reluctantly decided with the support of the team doctor and in the interests of the success of the expedition and its associated aims, to withdraw from Antarctica while the possibility to do so still exists, before the onset of the Antarctic winter". Expedition organiser Tony Medniuk told the BBC, "After five years of preparation, a small slip like this and a few moments can undermine the most meticulous preparation". Ian Prickett, a member of the team, said on Twitter "Sir Ran is leaving but we will carry on."The team hopes to raise US$10 million (£6.2 million) for avoidable-blindness charity Seeing is Believing. This is to be the first time any human has walked across Antarctica during winter and the expedition team are bracing themselves for cold around -90C and near-permanent darkness. Fiennes also suffered from frostbite whilst on an expedition to the North Pole in 2000 and, as a result, lost the tips of the fingers on his left hand. Guinness World Records has called Sir Ranulph "the world's greatest living explorer". In the past he became the first person to reach both the North and South Pole by surface as well as the oldest Briton, at age 65, to reach the summit of Mount Everest in 2009. Another British explorer, Captain Scott, died a century ago on his Antarctic expedition after being caught out by the beginning of winter.British fashion designer Alexander McQueen has died at the age of 40. He was found dead inside his residence in London, England yesterday.The Metropolitan Police said they are are not treating the death as suspicious. A spokesperson for the police force said, "[w]e were called by London Ambulance Service at about 10.20am this morning to reports of a man found dead at an address in Green Street, W1. He is believed to be 40 years old and from London. Next of kin have been informed, however we await formal identification before releasing the name of the deceased." According to reports, McQueen committed suicide by hanging, however this has not been confirmed.Between the years of 1996 and 2003, McQueen received Fashion Designer of the Year four times.  He was also given a CBE by Queen Elizabeth II in 2003.  The fashion designer had a new selection of clothing, entitled "McQ", that was expected to be shown on Thursday; the show has now been cancelled. Alexander's mother Joyce died earlier this month.  In response to this, McQueen placed a message on his Twitter page which said "RIP mumxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx."  Isabella Blow, who assisted in making McQueen famous, killed herself in 2007.Yesterday, a statement was released from McQueen's company headquarters stating "On behalf of Lee McQueen's family, Alexander McQueen today announces the tragic news that Lee McQueen, the founder and designer of the Alexander McQueen brand, has been found dead at his home. At this stage it is inappropriate to comment on this tragic news beyond saying that we are devastated and are sharing a sense of shock and grief with Lee's family. Lee's family has asked for privacy in order to come to terms with this terrible news and we hope the media will respect this."Edward Stobart, famed for his construction of the Eddie Stobart truck empire and being its chief executive officer for over thirty years, has died at the age of 56. In a statement, the Stobart Group commented: "It is with great sadness and regret that Stobart Group shares the news that Edward Stobart, son of Eddie Stobart, passed away at 8:10 AM this morning at University Hospital Coventry, after heart problems yesterday."When Eddie Stobart — Edward's father, who is aged over eighty — created the company during the 1950s in Cumbria in northern England, it originally involved itself in the business of agriculture. In the 1970s, the business was given the name Eddie Stobart Limited and became a haulage service. Eddie Stobart then handed over the company to his son. The enterprise subsequently became the most popular of that industry within the United Kingdom, according to BBC News Online; it extended to include transportation by air and railways, as well as warehousing and management of logistics.Due to the cult following that they had achieved via a fanbase of 'Stobart spotters', which involves the observation of their company's uniquely named vehicles, the Stobart Group decided to create an official followers' group, which now has in excess of twenty-five thousand members. Eddie Stobart-branded merchandise has also been released.William Stobert — the brother of Edward Stobart — and Andrew Tinkler purchased the business from Edward in 2004. Edward subsequently relocated to the Midlands and took over what was to become an unsuccessful truck trailer building firm in 2009.Edward Stobart experienced his death in Coventry, England at 0810 BST (0710 UTC) on Thursday. The Stobart Group have expressed their condolences to "Edward's wife Mandy, his children and family at this difficult time."Haulage firm Preston's of Potto's chairwoman Ann Preston described Edward as "the most iconic figure that has ever been in this industry" and that the death of a man who "was very passionate about road transport" and "didn't want to do anything else" since he was a child was "a massive loss". The Stobart Members' Club have stated: "The club's members will certainly have fond memories of the man who started the phenomenon off, created the iconic Eddie Stobart brand and made it cool to spot lorries. Stobart Spotting will continue and the legacy of Edward Stobart will live on."Wikinews has learned at least six of the United Kingdom's main Internet Service Providers (ISPs) have implemented monitoring and filtering mechanisms that are causing major problems for UK contributors on websites operated by the Wikimedia Foundation, in addition to 1,200 other websites. The filters appear to be applied because Wikimedia sites are hosting a Scorpions album cover which some call child pornography. Scorpions are a German hard rock band who have used several controversial album covers and are perhaps best known for the song Rock You Like a Hurricane.The measures applied redirect traffic for a significant portion of the UK's Internet population through six servers which can log and filter the content available to the end user. A serious side-effect of this is the inability of administrators on Wikimedia sites to block vandals, and other troublemakers, without potentially impacting hundreds of thousands of innocent UK contributors who work on WMF sites in good faith.The filtering is in response to the Internet Watch Foundation's list of websites that host content reported to contain inappropriate images of naked children. The IWF considers those images child pornography. However, in the United States, where the websites of the Wikimedia Foundation are hosted, it is not considered obscene under the criteria of the Miller test, which requires that an obscene work lack "serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value" - as album art is used to "brand" the album, it is considered to be artistic.Contributors or individuals attempting to view an affected image or file, depending on their ISP, may get a warning saying, "we have blocked this page because, according to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), it contains indecent images of children or pointers to them; you could be breaking UK law if you viewed the page." Other ISPs provide blank pages, 404 errors, or other means of blocking the content. Due to a configuration mistake at one Internet service provider, some users have reported being totally unable to access Wikimedia sites to the Wikipedia technical help desk."The Protection of Children Act 1978 as amended in the Sexual Offences Act 2003, makes it an offence to take, make, permit to be taken, distribute, show, possess with intent to distribute, and advertise indecent photographs or pseudo-photographs of children under the age of eighteen. The 'making' of such images includes downloading, that is, making a copy of a child sexual abuse image on a computer, so, in the UK, accessing such content online is a serious criminal offence," says the IWF on their website in an article updated on November 28. The IWF say there are at least 800 to 1,200 websites on the list of those who host or contain offensive material. The list is not public and the IWF never notified Wikimedia Foundation about the blocking of Wikipedia content. The affected page does not display any message informing the user about blocked content on most ISPs, instead, a technical error message is shown.However, Demon Internet redirects users to a block message on the IWF's site explaining that the page was blocked as the organization suspects child porn or links to it to be present. The IWF states that, "we do not notify site owners that their websites are on our list."The concern for Wikimedia is for some images like an album cover from a 1976 record of the Scorpions titled Virgin Killer. It displays an underage girl, posing nude, with a lens crack crossing over her genitals, but nothing blocking out her breasts. The girl appears to be around ten years old. In the U.S., the band later replaced the image with one of the group. The cover was uploaded to Wikipedia in 2006, but Wikinews learned that on May 9, 2008 at  (21:17 UTC), despite a result of strong consensus to 'keep' in a deletion request, the image was deleted, however for a different reason. It was deleted due to a claim by an administrator that it violated Wikipedia's policy for dealing with copyrighted images, which require that any images used under the doctrine of fair use must alongside other criteria, "significantly increase readers' understanding of the topic, and its omission would be detrimental to that understanding", with the administrator claiming that the article "lacked meaningful discussion" of the album art. This result was overturned using the deletion review process. Earlier, on December 6, the image was put back up for a deletion request, but it was later closed as Wikimedia "does not censor".Another image that is questionable could be a screenshot from the 1938 film Child Bride. Its goal was to bring to light the attempts at banning child marriages. In the article on Wikipedia, a screenshot appears of then 12-year-old Shirley Mills partially naked after skinny dipping. In the photo, at least one of her breasts can be seen.Other albums featuring nudity below the age of sixteen have previously caused controversy; Blind Faith attracted criticism as did Houses of the Holy, and Nirvana's Nevermind.Multiple companies have gone public stating that they implement the recommendations of the Internet Watch Foundation. Not all of these are known to have implemented measures against Wikimedia sites; the major UK ISPs thought to have affected Wikimedia sites are Telefonica O2/Be Unlimited, Virgin Media, Easynet, Plusnet, Demon, and Opal Telecommunications (TalkTalk).Wikinews has contacted Wikimedia's legal counsel, Mike Godwin and the IWF for a statement, but neither have replied as of this time.British jazz musician Sir John Dankworth, said to be "one of the totemic figures of British jazz" and "the first major jazz musician" by Jazzwise magazine, died at the age of 82 in the King Edward VII Hospital in London, England on Saturday after being hospitalised with an undisclosed illness for the last few months. His family and his agent made the confirmation of the obituary.He was born in Essex on 1927 to a family of musicians. He started playing the clarinet after being musically influenced by Benny Goodman. During the 1950s, he became an active jazz artist with his group, the Dankworth Seven. While auditioning for singers for the group in 1950, he met Dame Cleo Laine, who later became his wife.Dankworth, who had been working in the British jazz music industry for over 60 years, was the musical director to other famous jazz musicians such as Ella Fitzgerald, Nat King Cole and Charlie Parker. He was also the composer of the theme music for television programmes The Avengers and Tomorrow's World, as well as writing the music score for 1966 film Modesty Blaise. Johnny Dankworth, as he was often known by, was appointed CBE in 1974 and was knighted in 2006 - to become Sir John Dankworth - for his services to music. One of the last performances from John Dankworth was at the London Jazz Festival in November 2009, where he played the saxophone while sitting in a wheelchair. Dankworth also had two children - Jacqui, his daughter and Alec, his son. Both are now jazz musicians. Singer Dame Cleo Laine, John Dankworth's wife, also announced his death during a concert inside a music venue in Buckinghamshire which she and John founded near to their residence, having established the Wavendon Allmusic Plan in 1969. The concert was to celebrate the venue's 40th anniversary. A statement that was released from the music venue said: "The Stables is greatly saddened by the news that one of its Founders & Life Presidents, Sir John Dankworth CBE has passed away on the day that The Stables celebrated its 40th birthday." In a statement, Jim Murtha, Dankworth's agent, said that "[t]he all-star concert, featuring numerous British stars of stage, screen and recordings, became a tribute to John." Stephen Clarke, who is the chairman of the charity supporting The Stables released a statement which said that "[i]t is a fitting tribute that on the day of Sir John's death that we celebrated on stage...with some of the many artists who have performed with Sir John."Speaking from New York in the United States, Jim Murtha stated to the BBC: "For British jazz and jazz around the world, I believe John has become such an international figure, particularly since he became Sir John Dankworth a few years ago." A message placed on the Twitter page of present day jazz musician Jamie Cullum said: "Sir John Dankworth - a great man and one of our finest musicians and composers has died. Rest in peace sir."In the United Kingdom, PRS for Music has announced that the total royalties that artists in the music industry receive has decreased by 1%. This is the first time that such a decline has ever occurred.The company has reported that the total was £611.2 million (US$977.8 million, €693.9 million) in 2010, a decrease of overall annual revenue of 1%, or £7 million (US$11.2 million, €7.9 million), from 2009. PRS for Music has claimed that this fall was due to lower sales of Compact Discs and DVDs, as well as digital copyright infringement.The collection society, which is a representation of seventy-five thousand writers, composers and publishers of music, gathers royalties from music being used in excess of twenty-five billion times annually by various means, including television / radio, commercial businesses, musical venues, Compact Discs and DVDs.Robert Ashcroft is the Chief Executive Officer of PRS for Music and is responsible for being the representative of such British music artists as Adele, Jessie J and Florence Welch. Speaking about this news, Ashcroft said: "The loss of high street outlets, the slowdown in physical music sales as well as the challenges capturing the full value of music usage online has meant that for the first time we have seen royalties collected dip. Previously, any reduction from falling physical sales had been offset by our strong performance in music licensing both in the UK and internationally. In 2010 slower growth at home and abroad failed to fully mitigate the decline."In 2010, the sales of music physically and digitally grew by 7% to achieve 120 million units. Meanwhile, sales of compact discs fell by 12.4% to a total of 98.5 million. British global entertainment retail chain HMV has attempted to save money by closing down sixty of its shops in the UK. In 2010, royalties' growth reduced in speed to 4.3%.Simon Neil, of Scottish rock group Biffy Clyro, explained that "[t]he thing about PRS is for a lot of bands it's the only way you make money. In our first six years of being in a band that was the only kind of income we had. It's the bread and butter for bands. It's almost your only guaranteed source of income."PRS for Music has stated that its payout to its members was decreased by £800,000 (US$1,3 million, €900,000), due to improved society efficiency and a reduction in costs related to administration. According to Newsbeat, the small royalty drop may trigger a larger decline, causing new musical composers and writers to avoid joining the music industry. The company believes that further action needs to be taken to prevent the lack of CD sales and compete with illegal downloads, including the development of legal download services.Robin Gibb, singer, songwriter and member of the musical group Bee Gees, died Sunday in London, England, of complications from colon and liver cancer. He was 62 years old.Robin, and his twin brother Maurice Gibb, were born December 22, 1949, on the Isle of Man, raised in Manchester, and later lived in Redcliffe, Australia. While the twins and their older brother Barry Gibb began performing at a young age in England, they later made appearances on television in Australia, but the brothers had already moved back to England by the time they scored their first international hit New York Mining Disaster 1941 in 1967. The three brothers are known for their blended vocal harmonies, but Robin's voice can best be heard on the song I Started A Joke. After several hits with the Bee Gees, Robin became a solo artist and had one hit in England, called Saved by the Bell. After that, he rejoined his brothers and had more hits in the early 1970s. Throughout the Bee Gees career, Robin shared songwriting duties with his brothers Barry and Maurice.The Bee Gees had a comeback in the mid-1970's with songs like Jive Talkin' and You Should Be Dancing before Robert Stigwood, who was their first manager, asked them to record songs for the film Saturday Night Fever, which became one of the best selling albums and produced major hits like Stayin' Alive, Night Fever and How Deep Is Your Love. It was during this period that the Bee Gees became known for their contributions to disco music.Speaking to a reporter from Weekend Australian in 2009, Robin Gibb said, "Since 1967, there have only been three albums that have truly affected the culture, and that's the Beatles' Sgt. Pepper, Fever, and Michael Jackson's Thriller. There's not many people who know what that feels like. We're like the guys who have been to the moon."For the 100th Anniversary of the sinking of the Titanic in April, Gibb and his son, Robin-John Gibb, wrote a score for The Titanic Requiem, recorded by Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. Gibb was too ill to attend the premiere and he fell into a coma later in April.Preceding Gibb in death were his younger brother Andy Gibb, who was a successful solo recording artist, in 1988 and his twin Maurice in 2003. Gibb is survived his 65-year-old brother Barry, a sister, and mother. He is also survived by his second wife Dwina Murphy and four children.Lucian Freud, the painter and grandson of the founder of psychoanalysis Sigmund Freud, died Wednesday at his London home following a short illness. He was 88 years old.Freud, the elder brother of the late comedic writer and broadcaster Clement Freud, was born in Berlin in 1922 and moved with his family to Britain in 1933 to escape the Nazis. He became a British citizen in 1939. He studied at the Central School of Art, then at the East Anglian School of Painting and Drawing with Cedric Morris. He also attended Goldsmiths, University of London. After finishing art school, he spent some time in the merchant navy. In 1944, he started exhibiting with a solo showcase at the Alex Reid & Lefevre Gallery.In the 1950s, his style changed to exclusively paint portraits and nudes. The process of painting for models was intense: one nude painting took 16 months to complete and Freud demanded her turn up almost every day to pose. His work was nominated for the Turner Prize in 1989, and he was a member of the Order of Merit. Most controversially, he painted a portrait of Queen Elizabeth II which was described by The Sun newspaper as a "travesty", and prompted Robin Simon, the editor of the British Art Journal to say that "It makes her look like one of the royal corgis who has suffered a stroke". He also famously painted the glamour model Kate Moss nude, and was once named one of Britain's best dressed men in the magazine GQ.His work has sold for large amounts: Benefits Supervisor Sleeping, sold in 2008 at Christie's in New York for $33.6 million dollars. In addition, he has had solo shows at some of the most prominent art galleries and museums in the world including the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles, the Museum of Modern Art in New York, and the Centre Pompidou in Paris. Nicholas Serota, the director of the Tate in London, said of Freud: "The vitality of his nudes, the intensity of the still life paintings and the presence of his portraits of family and friends guarantee Lucian Freud a unique place in the pantheon of late twentieth century art. His early paintings redefined British art and his later works stand comparison with the great figurative painters of any period."Freud has at least thirteen children from a series of marriages and affairs: after an affair wth the Bloomsbury Group member Lorna Garman, Freud married her niece Kitty in 1948 and had two children (Annie and Annabel) before ending the marriage four years later. He had an affair with Lady Caroline Blackwood which turned into a marriage in 1953, although that was dissolved in 1957. He also had two children with Bernadine Coverly (Bella Freud, the fashion designer, and the writer Esther Freud), five children with Suzy Boyt, and four children with Katherine Margaret McAdam (Paul Freud, an artist, Lucy Freud, David Freud and Jane McAdam Freud, also an artist).Peter Porter, an Australian-born British poet, has died at the age of 81 after suffering from liver cancer for a year. The poet was born in Brisbane, Australia in 1929 and moved to London, England in 1951. His first collection of works, entitled "Once Bitten, Twice Bitten", was first published in 1961. He went on to become a broadcaster, reviewer, journalist and a full-time poet in the year 1968.Porter created "The Cost of Seriousness" in 1978, after his first wife committed suicide in 1974. Some of the prizes he won for his creations included the Duff Cooper prize, the Forward prize — for "Max is Missing" — the Whitbread poetry award and the Queen's Gold Medal for poetry. "Afterburner", created by Peter in 2004, was also shortlisted for a T.S. Eliot Prize for Poetry. One of his latest collections, "Better than God", was on the shortlist for the Forward Prize in 2009.Anthony Thwaite, another English poet, a friend and a colleauge to Peter Porter, stated that he "never quite knew where he belonged". He stated: "In Australia he was considered English, and in England he was considered Australian. He sort of floated." Thwaite would describe Porter as "one of the finest poets of our time".British pop star Leona Lewis has broken Billboard records in the United States to become the first female British pop star to reach a number one spot on the music charts in over 20 years and became the third solo British artist ever to reach the top charts.Lewis made the number one spot with her new hit single Bleeding Love. According to Billboard.com her single ranks number one in the top 100, the pop 100 and hottest digital songs."I'm so excited to be able to spend some time in the US and showcase my music to everyone here. Its been a dream of mine since I was a little girl and I can't wait," said Lewis on her website.The last female singer from the UK to top the charts in the U.S. was Kim Wilde in 1987 when she did her own version of The Supremes 'You Keep Me Hangin' On.'Lewis took the UK by storm when she won The X Factor (UK) in 2006 and became the biggest selling female artist of all time in the UK.British rapper Derek B has died at the age of 44 after a heart attack, according to reports released today.The hip-hop artist, who was born by the name of Derek Boland, was born in London, England, was believed to have become the first "home-grown" artist in his music genre to appear on British televised music programme Top of the Pops, and was one of the first hip-hop artists in the United Kingdom to have significant chart success in the UK Singles Chart, achieving songs that reached the top 20 of the chart, including the likes of "Good Groove" and "Bad Young Brother" in 1988. He was also partly responsible for writing the Anfield Rap, which was a track recorded for Liverpool F.C., an English football club. The record reached number 3 in the UK Singles Chart.The man released a debut album called "Bullet From A Gun" in 1988, which, at its peak, reached number 9 in the UK Album Chart. It remained in the chart for a total of nine weeks. Ben Chijioke, who is another British hip-hop recording artist known normally by his stage name Ty, spoke to BBC News about the effect which this artist had on the music world. "He definitely broke the door down," he said. "He was one of the first artists that I saw get to such a level through rap, and be on Top of the Pops, be on children's programmes, be on the world stage. He was one of the ones to do it first, when it was thoroughly unacceptable from the mainstream perspective. At the time, he was absolutely groundbreaking. He definitely broke the door down."Zane Lowe is a disc jockey on BBC Radio 1. On his page on social networking website Twitter, he has been quoted as saying the following: "Oh man. Derek B was a massive album for me. Sad day RT. RIP DEREK BOLAND (WAG CLUB) :(". In a separate message sent three hours later, Zane wrote the following: "Respect to Derek B. Bad Young Brother on R1. Sounded huge."George Michael, a well-known British pop singer and songwriter, died on Christmas Day at the age of 53. Michael was found dead at his home in Oxfordshire, England, by boyfriend Fadi Fawaz.Michael's publicist released the following statement to People and Entertainment Weekly: "It is with great sadness that we can confirm our beloved son, brother and friend George passed away peacefully at home over the Christmas period. The family would ask that their privacy be respected at this difficult and emotional time." He also reported that Michael had died of heart failure and "passed away peacefully".Sir Elton John said via Instagram, "I am in deep shock. I have lost a beloved friend — the kindest, most generous soul and a brilliant artist. My heart goes out to his family and all of his fans."George Michael was born Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou in London.  Over his multi-decade career, he sold more than 100 million records.  Along with co-singer Andrew Ridgeley he became famous as part of the duo band Wham!. Together, Michael and Ridgeley produced several hit songs, such as Wake Me Up Before You Go-Go, Freedom, and Last Christmas. In 1985, Wham! was the first Western band to play in China since the beginning of the country's opening up strategy. Wham! dissolved in 1986. In 1984, Michael recorded the successful single Careless Whisper. Michael was credited as the solo artist in the United Kingdom and as "Wham! featuring George Michael" in the United States.  Michael released a hit solo album Faith in 1987, containing hits like I Want Your Sex.Michael's life was troubled by both substance abuse and issues with his sexuality.  He initially hid his identity as a gay man from his fans, coming out only after a very public arrest for public lewdness in 1998.  He would later be arrested for possession of drugs and driving under the influence of drugs. He was sentenced to eight weeks in prison in 2010 for crashing a Range Rover into a storefront while under the influence of drugs and possession of cannabis.Michael had a history of transforming his negative experiences into art.  He wrote White Light about a serious case of pneumonia that led to his hospitalization in 2011, and the music video for Outside, which followed on the heels of his arrest and coming out, showed scenes of a men's bathroom, a dance club, and men kissing while in police uniforms. He would perform White Light live at the 2012 London Olympics.Lil' Chris, an English singer and television personality, died on Monday, police reported that day. The 24-year-old Chris Hardman was found dead at an address in Lowestoft, Suffolk. Suffolk Police said they were not treating it as a suspicious death. Hardman came to fame as Lil' Chris after appearing on the Channel 4 reality television show Rock School. Rock School in 2006 featured a student rock band that KISS frontman Gene Simmons created. Hardman was chosen to be the bands lead singer by Simmons. Speaking to The Daily Mirror, Simmons paid tribute to Hardman. He said "Lil Chris was a kind, little soul. I will greatly miss his smile and his spirit. I knew there was something special about him as soon as I met him".More tributes came from other celebrities. McFly band member Dougie Poynter paid tribute to Hardman on Instagram; he posted alongside a photograph of him, "So sad to hear about Lil Chris. He was such a genuinely sweet and funny guy, we had some awesome times. Our thoughts go out to his family and friends." Boxer Anthony Ogogo praised him as a "super-talented kid"; Ogogo and Hardman both went to Kirkley High School.Hardman's most successful hit was Checkin' It Out, his debut single in 2006, which made it to number three on the UK Singles Chart. He released his last album in 2008 but had recently announced plans of a musical comeback on Twitter. Prior to his death Hardman had spoken about his battle with depression on Twitter. He once tweeted "Depression really sucks. Learning how to notice it can save lives and your own feelings at times. Take time to understand it, for everybody." Since his death has been announced the suicide helpline charity The Samaritans have released a statement. They said "If anyone has been affected by this news, or is struggling to cope, we would like to let people know that Samaritans is here for them if they need to talk."British singer Robbie Williams has announced that he will be returning to boyband Take That. The singer made the announcement during an interview with Jonathan Ross on Friday Night with Jonathan Ross, which is due to be aired on BBC One on Friday. Robbie has been quoted as saying, "We've got together, done bits and bobs." In response to a question about whether he would be appearing with the rest of Take That on stage in the future, Robbie said: "I can't say much but, yes, I hope so."Take That originated in Manchester, England in 1990. The group disbanded in 1996, but reformed in 2005 without Robbie in it.During the interview with Ross, Williams also revealed that he has made plans to have children with his girlfriend. "I thought I was going to be a bachelor," he said. "I was introduced to Ayda [Field] and things just changed. She's a wonderful person and I'm in love. She's really broody and I'm getting there." Robbie also spoke of his performance on the BBC Electric Proms on October 20, and the pressure that he suffered from. "I've always been very nervous [performing for] 80,000 people, it's an unnatural thing to do. You don't know what's going on in my head. It's traumatic, really scary. I ended up in rehab again. It was, 'What are you doing to yourself?' I thought it was time to break the cycle. I've taken the pressure off myself, it's a part-time gig these days. The missus keeps me grounded. There's no need to take myself out of my mind any more."Robbie Williams recently made a live performance on The X Factor, a UK televised singing competition. The singer denied allegations that he is taking drugs. "I get incredibly nervous," he commented. "It wasn't drugs or drink, just deer in the headlights."British singer Susan Boyle has agreed to be admitted to a local clinic for exhaustion, according to media reports. Boyle is said to have been taken by ambulance to the Priory clinic after she began to act strange in her hotel room, reportedly suffering an "emotional breakdown."Staff for Britain's Got Talent allegedly called police after they noticed her acting strange while backstage after the finale of the popular talent contest. Boyle went to her hotel room and on the arrival of police she was ordered to be taken to a clinic under the Mental Health Act."Police were called to doctors assessing a woman under the Mental Health Act. The woman was taken voluntarily by ambulance to a clinic. At the request of doctors, police accompanied the ambulance," said Scotland Yard as quoted by The Sun.Boyle, 47, from Blackburn, West Lothian, in Scotland, came in second place on Britain's Got Talent. Boyle was beaten by the dance group Diversity on Saturday who got 24% of the public vote, with Boyle receiving 20%. She took the world by storm after her debut appearance on April 11 singing "I Dreamed a Dream" from the award-winning musical Les Misérables. Just a day after appearing on the show, Boyle became a YouTube sensation with her performance receiving nearly 9 million views. To date, the YouTube clip has been viewed by nearly 65 million people worldwide.Britain's Got Talent issued a statement supporting Boyle saying, "Following Saturday's show, Susan is exhausted and emotionally drained. We offer her our ongoing support and wish her a speedy recovery."Simon Cowell, the show's owner and panel judge of the contestants, also issued a statement saying, "We're going to look after her. We've never had a runner-up like Susan before. She won over a lot of fans - not just with her voice, but with her graciousness."It is not known how long Boyle will be staying at the clinic, but according to reports, she agreed to take time off from singing on advice of her doctor not long before being admitted.British singer Susan Boyle has been released from a private mental clinic. On May 31, Boyle was admitted by ambulance to the Priory clinic in London, England after she began to act strange in her hotel room, reportedly suffering an "emotional breakdown."Boyle's brother, Gerry Boyle, told GMTV that Susan is "a lot more like herself," and that she is "much happier." He also added that Boyle is "now beginning to believe that, 'Yes indeed, I will be a singer.'"Boyle, 47, from Blackburn, West Lothian, in Scotland, came in second place on the British reality show Britain's Got Talent (BGT). Boyle was beaten by the dance group Diversity on Saturday who got 24% of the public vote, with Boyle receiving 20%. She took the world by storm after her debut appearance on April 11 singing "I Dreamed a Dream" from the award-winning musical Les Misérables. Just a day after appearing on the show, Boyle became a YouTube sensation with her performance receiving nearly 9 million views. To date, the YouTube clip has been viewed by over 66 million people worldwide.Traditionally, finalists of the show go on a concert tour of the UK, although producers for Britain's Got Talent will not say whether Boyle plans to be a part of it. A spokesperson stated they are respecting Boyle's privacy amid her health concerns. Rehearsals for the tour are reported to begin next week, with the first show starting on June 12.Thursday marked the 50th anniversary of British soap opera Coronation Street's broadcast. The programme, which was created by Tony Warren and developed by Granada Television — now branded on-air as ITV Studios — in Manchester, England, was first broadcast on December 9, 1960 on ITV. The original commission was just 13 episodes. Nearly 7,500 episodes later, Coronation Street still broadcasts on ITV1.At least one episode of the programme was broadcast every night between December 6 and December 10; on Thursday, the 50th anniversary was celebrated with a live episode. The major storyline of the week, entitled "Four Funerals and a Wedding", started with a tram crash on Monday, shortly after a gas explosion in a new nearby bar called The Joinery damaged railway tracks.At its peak, Thursday's one-hour live episode received ratings of approximately 14.9 million viewers — the highest total for the show for over six years. Within the sixty scenes, the storylines included character Fiz Stape prematurely giving birth to a baby girl, who was given the name Hope. Peter Barlow lay on his hospital bed as he attempted to say his wedding vows to Leanne Battersby; he subsequently flatlined. Molly Dobbs admitted her affair with Kevin Webster to Sally Webster — Kevin's wife — before dying as a result of her injuries. There were virtually no mistakes made in the episode. Phil Collinson, the producer, expressed his approval for the episode. "I'm so proud and gobsmacked at how brilliant it looked," he commented. "It was like seeing it for the first time. I'm stunned and amazed."Ken Barlow is the only remaining character from the first episode, always portrayed by William Roache. Coronation Street now has its own version of encyclopedia website Wikipedia called Corriepedia, which was launched on May 21, 2008.Because of this anniversary, numerous special programmes were also broadcast. The first ever episode of Coronation Street was repeated on Monday. On Wednesday-Thursday night Coronation Street: 50 Years, 50 Moments revealed the results of a poll to determine the fifty best Coronation Street moments. A humourous scene featuring character Blanche Hunt at an Alcoholics Anonymous meeting topped the poll. Hunt, portrayed by the late Maggie Jones, was also revealed as the most popular character, according to a study by UK magazine Inside Soap. Second-place moment was a storyline involving serial killer Richard Hillman. Brian Capron, who portrayed Hillman, commented "Funnily enough because it's all come back it seems to have done me a lot of good. It's kind of an iconic storyline that I was involved in. There were some wonderful blackly humourous lines and the gloves, that slight pantomime element. You could love to hate him. They gave me so many great lines."Friday also saw the ITV1 broadcast of one-off game show, Coronation Street: The Big 50, a part-entertainment programme. Hosted by Paul O'Grady, it featured various members of the Coronation Street cast as contestants, split into three teams: "Weatherfield Lads", "Pint Pullers", and "Rovers Regulars" plus a fourth team of celebrity fans, or "Superfans". The "Rovers Regulars" were to become the victors.An episode of the British soap opera Coronation Street has been postponed after it was due to air on the same day as a string of shootings in Cumbria occurred. The episode, due to be broadcast on ITV last night, featured a siege and hostage situation heavily involving guns.The soap was replaced with an episode of Harry Hill's TV Burp. ITV released a statement "ITV has postponed tonight's episode of Coronation Street out of respect to those affected by today's tragedy. Coronation Street will be replaced by a compilation episode of TV Burp."The broadcast was shelved after a man shot dead 12 people and injured several more in Cumbria. This episode of Coronation Street is one of a six part collection of episodes. They took around four weeks to film.The world's third largest supermarket chain, Tesco of Britain, announced intentions to start a film downloading service on the back of its successful music download service in the United Kingdom.Tesco takes a 10% share in the UK music download market, even though they are a late comer.The reason for the service is that Britain is one of the largest illegal downloaders of film and television programmes in the world, with many TV shows copied to PCs as soon as they are shown in the United States. Copies of The Simpsons, The O.C., Desperate Housewives and even Lost which is not available yet in the UK are found on p2p servers like Kazaa and BitTorrent.This is not the first company who has decided to start a film download service. The entertainment giant Sony has asked for such a service, plus the music downloader Wippet has already decided to introduce film downloading in the UK.British television host Richard Whiteley, most famous for his role presenting the British television game show Countdown, has died aged 61 at Leeds General Infirmary.  The cause of death is reported to have been complications resulting from an operation on his heart to repair an infected valve. He had been admitted to Bradford Royal Infirmary with pneumonia on May 6, falling into a coma shortly there after.His 23 years of hosting Countdown made him a household name among television viewers in the UK, having previously anchored Yorkshire's Calendar local affairs program.  The avuncular figure was fond of word play and possessed a striking wit.Until this May, Whiteley had never missed presenting an edition of the show. Countdown was the first programme to be broadcast on the new Channel 4 when it began broadcasting in 1982. He was awarded an OBE in June 2004.Whiteley leaves behind a partner of 11 years, actress Kathryn Apanowicz.Rico Daniels is a British TV presenter living in France who is known for his two television series — The Salvager — whilst he still lived in the UK and then Le Salvager after he moved to France. Rico has been in a variety of jobs but his passion is now his profession - he turns unwanted 'junk' into unusual pieces of furniture. Rico's creations and the methods used to fabricate them are the subject of the Salvager shows.Rico spoke to Wikinews in January about his inspiration and early life, future plans, other hobbies and more. Read on for the full exclusive interview, published for the first time:Despite two months of preparation, a Smurf party held by the University of Southampton's student union ended without a record. While 720 came to The Cube nightclub in blue bodypaint, and with a white hat and pants, they missed the mark by 164 people.On February 18, Chester University attracted 884 students to their event, but newspapers and organizers apparently overlooked this record attempt. It generally takes a few months for the Guinness World Record organization to formally acknowledge achievements as being official.The Southampton event was to raise cash for the Prince's Trust's "World Wealth Creation Challenge". The competition pits ten United Kingdom universities against each other, to raise as much money between November 2007 and March 2008.The previous record of 451 people was set by Warwick University in 2007.While The Smurfs television series made the characters known in the English-speaking world, when it debuted in the 1980s, they actually began 50 years ago in the Belgian comics magazine Le Journal de Spirou.British ventriloquist Ray Alan has died at the age of 79. Alan was best known for his sketches with his puppet, Lord Charles.  His death was announced by his agent.  Alan died in his sleep. Alan received the majority of his fame in the 1950s and 60’s appearing on several children’s television shows including Tich and Quackers and also as a guest artist on the series The Good Old Days.  Later in his career he worked as an entertainer on the QE2 Cruise ship.  He stopped work in 2008 due to ill health.Peter Pritchard, Alan's agent for 30 years, released a statement saying that Alan "passed away very suddenly".  He spoke about Alan’s career saying that "Technically he was regarded as Britain's top ventriloquist.  You just couldn't see his mouth moving.  He was tremendously well-liked in the business and has been in the entertainment business his whole life".Alan spoke to the BBC in 2006 speaking about his puppet. He said "I'm not one of those ventriloquists who thinks he's real. When I finish my work I put it back in the tool box and I don't take it out again until the next job."Roy Skelton, a voice artist and actor from the United Kingdom, has died at the age of 79. Skelton was known for providing the voices of George and Zippy in the ITV children's television programme Rainbow. He voiced the two characters from around 1970 until 1992, when the programme's run concluded. Skelton also voiced the Daleks in the BBC television series Doctor Who between 1967 and 1988.Geoffrey Hayes, a presenter of Rainbow, described Skelton as an actor who "really brought Zippy and George to life through his voice" and was "fabulous at improvising if something went wrong" during the programme. Speaking to the BBC, Hayes noted: "The most wonderful thing was if Zippy and George were having an argument between themselves, it sounded like he'd double-tracked it as they seemed to be talking over each other. It was a wonderful technique and I don't know how he did it. Although he was known for Zippy and George he was actually a fabulous actor with a great singing voice and a wonderful raconteur – he used to tell us some wonderful stories."Roy Skelton managed to achieve writing approximately one hundred episodes of Rainbow. As well as the Daleks, Skelton used his voice to assume the roles of Cybermen and the Krotons within Doctor Who. However, despite the prominence of the characters and their voices, Skelton once said that he could walk down the street without being identified by others. "People don't say, 'There's Zippy,' or ask me to say, 'Exterminate!' I sometimes wish they did," said Skelton.Hilary Skelton, the wife of Roy, stated: "Roy had a great sense of humour. He wrote Naughty Rainbow for a competition. We still have the original script." This piece of writing was of a similar format to the original programme, only with numerous euphemisms used for comic effect. The sketch has achieved popularity within society. Hilary also said that her husband "loved going to work every day. His first love had been theatre but he brought theatre to Rainbow."According to Hilary, Roy would have wanted to have a "green funeral," during which his body would be buried in a cardboard coffin. He also would have wanted people to be able to write on the coffin, Hilary noted.British writer Edward Upward has died at the age of 105. Upward died on Friday, February 13 in Pontefract, England. He was believed to be the UK's oldest living author.Upward was born Edward Falaise Upward on September 9, 1903 in Romford, England. He attended Corpus Christi College in Cambridge, where, in 1924, he was awarded the Chancellor's Medal for English Verse. He was attending the college on a history scholarship he received in 1922.Upward joined the communist party in 1932 after the fall of Britain's Labour Party in the summer of 1931. He recalls joining the party because he felt "psychological need" so satisfy his imagination of it. He was convinced his fear of becoming mentally unstable would be cured, because his cousin Allen, who was also an author, killed himself after going crazy. Upward stated he was impressed with his cousin's suicide, because he thought he would die the same way.Upward's first novel Journey to the Border, was published by the Hogarth Press in 1938. It described in poetic prose, the rebellion of a private tutor against his employer and the menacing world of the 1930s.Following weeks of speculation in some media quarters, it has been announced that Britney Spears, 23, is pregnant. In a posting on her Web site, Spears announced that she and husband, Kevin Federline, 27, were expecting their first child together. Her publicist, Sonia Muckle, confirmed the singer's pregnancy Tuesday but gave no further information."The time has finally come to share our wonderful news that we are expecting our first child together. There are reports that I was in the hospital this weekend," read a statement allegedly written by Spears. Federline has two children with his ex-girlfriend, actress Shar Jackson. He met Spears last year when he was a backup dancer on her tour and his girlfriend was pregnant with their son.Pop-singer Britney Spears, 24, announced last night on the Late Show With David Letterman that she is pregnant again."So, we've established now that you are in fact pregnant, is that right?" asked Letterman."Yes, sir," replied Spears.  She added, "Don't worry, Dave, it's not yours."Spears gave birth to her son Sean Preston last September after marrying back-up dancer Kevin Federline, 28, in November 2004. This will be Spears' second child and Federline's fourth.In 2004, shortly after the birth of her son, Spears put her singing career on hold to raise him. Her last album to be released was her "greatest hits" album in 2004.In February, a photo of Spears was taken while she was driving her car with her son in her lap. In April, her son allegedly fell from a high chair, hitting his head and prompting Child Welfare agents to go to her home. No charges have been filed in either case.File:Britney-Spears082.jpgThe Firm, a company which pop singer Britney Spears hired to manage her career just over one month ago, no longer wishes to  manage Spears, and has terminated the services they were providing her to promote her new record."We have terminated our professional relationship with Britney Spears. We believe she is enormously talented, but current circumstances have prevented us from properly doing our job," said the company in a statement to the media. Jeff Kwatinetz was the manager for Spears. It is not yet known what circumstances caused the company to sever their ties with Spears.Spears is releasing a new album, scheduled to be put on shelves in November, and her record label, Jive Records, has stated that the recent incident will not delay the release of her record."The label does not comment on artist/management relations. We're gearing up for a Nov. 13 album release date," said the record label in a statement to the media.In Los Angeles, California singer and actress Britney Spears, 24, has filled papers in Los Angeles County Superior Court to divorce her husband Kevin Federline, 28. A spokeswoman for the court, Kathy Roberts stated that the papers cited "irreconcilable differences" as the reason for the divorce and have, according to the courts, been legally separated as of Monday, November 6, the same day that Spears appeared on Late Night with David Letterman. The fact that the papers were filed on the same day as the U.S. general elections prompted ABC News to speculate that the star may have been hoping to receive less attention amid national election coverage.The two were married on October 6, 2004, according to the petition, a date that E! Online noted was in conflict with a photo spread in People, which gave their wedding date as September 18, 2004. The couple currently have two sons, the first named Sean Preston, 1, and a recent baby boy named Jayden James Federline who was born on September 12, 2006. Spears is attempting to gain both full legal and physical custody of both of the children with Federline having visitation rights. It is also reported that Spears did not accept spousal support and waived her right to receive any, also asking that the legal fees incurred during the divorce be separated.Neither Spears nor Federline has yet released a statement.American radio broadcaster Paul Harvey has died at the age of 90. Harvey died while at his home in Phoenix, Arizona on Saturday, February 28. According to reports, his family and friends were by his side at the time of his death. The cause of Harvey's death has not yet been released.Harvey was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma. His radio career started in 1933 at KVOO Tulsa, while he was in high school. His initial job was cleaning the station and later went to fill in on air for reading news and commercials. He was best known for his The Rest of the Story program.Harvey was credited with coining several words on his broadcasts, including Reaganomics and Guesstimate. He was inducted in to the National Radio Hall of Fame in 1990 and received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2005.In a written statement ABC Radio Networks president Jim Robinson said "Paul Harvey was one of the most gifted and beloved broadcasters in our nation's history. As he delivered the news each day with his own unique style and commentary, his voice became a trusted friend in American households."Former President George W. Bush in a statement condoled Harvey's death by saying "Laura and I are saddened by the death of Paul Harvey. Paul was a friendly and familiar voice in the lives of millions of Americans. His commentary entertained, enlightened, and informed. Laura and I are pleased to have known this fine man, and our thoughts and prayers are with his family."Bucharest, the capital of Romania, will become the first southeastern European city to host CowParade. Between June 1 and the end of August this year, the city will be flooded by herds of decorated cow sculptures, exhibited at well-known landmarks, such as The Palace of the Parliament, Europe's largest building, as well as on the streets and outside metro stations. Over 3000 local and international artists will participate in the event, decorating more than 100 life-sized fibreglass cows. The decorated cows will feature Romanian and Bucharestean themes, as well as issues related to international city life.After the event ends, all the cows will be auctioned off, with the proceeds donated to the Special Olympics Romania, a charity helping athletes with mental disabilities. The Bucharest CowParade is organised by Event Horizon, a Romanian marketing consultancy.CowParade, which was first held in Zurich in 1998, has been held in 22 cities in 5 continents and is today the world's largest public art event.Bucharest was chosen from over 500 other candidate cities and has waited for the event for a couple of years. The new local government in Bucharest wants to relaunch the city's image as a creative and colourful metropolis and have therefore enthusiastically supported the exhibition. The high-profile event is expected to boost the image of Bucharest worldwide, especially in the artistic scene.Country music singer-songwriter icon and 1996 Country Music Hall of Fame inductee Buck Owens has passed away at his Bakersfield, California residence. He was 76. Family spokesman Jim Shaw made the announcement.  Considered by many the original rhinestone cowboy, Owens was responsible for over 20 number one hits including his first, "Act Naturally," in 1963, "Together Again," and "I've Got a Tiger by the Tail". Most of his biggest hits were released from the mid 1960's to mid 1970's. Among the numerous recording artists who recorded his songs were Emmylou Harris, the Beatles, who recorded "Act Naturally", and Dwight Yoakam, who had a 1988 duet with Owens on "Streets of Bakersfield". Many of these artists made hits for themselves as well with his songs. He was mentioned in cameo-passing during the Creedence Clearwater Revival song "Lookin' Out My Backdoor".He transformed country music with his honky-tonk "Bakersfield Sound", so named for the town of his residence 100 miles north of Los Angeles where he moved in 1951. With Roy Clark, he co-hosted the long-running popular television comedy country-themed musical variety show Hee-Haw from 1969-1986. Owens's memorable red, white and blue guitar became his visual performance trademark. Owens had throat cancer surgery in 1993 and was hospitalized with pneumonia in January 1997. Born Alvis Edgar Owens on August 12, 1929 outside Sherman, Texas, he was the son of a sharecropper, and moved with his family to Arizona during the Great Depression at age 8, and by age 16 was playing music in taverns. His first wife Bonnie sometimes performed with him, later becoming a lead back-up singer after their 1953 divorce. One of their two sons, Alvis Alan Owens, became a singer under the stage name Buddy Alan and had a 1968 top 10 hit "Let the World Keep on a -Turnin", and sang many duets with his father. His two other sons, Michael and John, survive him.As Queen Elizabeth II approaches her 80th birthday, on April 21, Buckingham Palace has released 80 little known facts about her.Did you know that: The Queen owns all dolphins, porpoises, and sturgeons in British waters. She has sat for 139 official portraits, opened 15 bridges in the UK, launched 23 ships, and speaks fluent French.  The Queen sent a message of congratulations to Apollo 11 astronauts, for the first moon landing on July 21 1969, and it was put in a metal container and placed on the Moon's surface. Or that in 1976 at an Army base she sent her first e-mail. Or she has owned more than 30 corgis, starting with Susan who was her 18th birthday present. And in 2002, at 76 years of age, that The Queen was the oldest monarch to celebrate a Golden Jubilee.Rumen Petkov, the chief of the Bulgarian Motorycling federation has been invited by Bernie Ecclestone, the Formula One boss, to discuss plans for a Bulgarian Grand Prix to be added to the Formula One calendar in 2011.The talks will be held during the German Grand Prix at the Nürburgring next weekend. If the bid is successful, the new circuit is likely to be located near Pleven.The president of Bulgaria's Automobile Sport Federation, Georgi Yankulov is said to be lacking opitimism regarding the bid due to the current recession creating problems attracting sponsors and constructing a circuit.It was announced in 2008 that the Indian Grand Prix will be added to the 2011 calendar, delayed from its intended 2010 debut.The parliament of Catalonia, an autonomous region of Spain, today voted to outlaw bullfighting – an iconic sport in much of the country. The vote was held after animal rights activists, led by Catalonian animal rights group Prou! (Catalan for "Enough!"), who claim the practice is "barbaric", collected 180,000 signatures to a petition.In other areas, such as Portugal and southern France, the bulls, which are specially bred for fighting, are not killed in the ring.  The ban, which passed with a 68–55 majority and nine abstentions, will come into force in Catalonia in January 2012, making the region the first place in mainland Spain to outlaw the practice. Supporters of the practice claim that it is an art form which forms an important part of the Spanish culture, and fear that the ban could be the first of many in Spain. They also say that many jobs would be lost as a result of the ban, with estimates that it could cost €300 million in lost revenue. Both the main parties in the Catalan parliament took the unusual step of allowing their members a free vote in the debate, which saw high emotions on both sides. The debate was officially over the animal welfare concerns; however, many believe that the underlying issue of Catalan nationalism played a significant part in the outcome. Some expressed the opinion that Catalonia, which, while officially part of Spain, has its own language and flag, was attempting to distinguish itself from the rest of Spain by outlawing one of its most famous traditions.Bernardo Hees, the CEO of American fast food chain Burger King. was caught insulting British women during a speech to students in Chicago. Hees was talking to the university students about his time at the University of Warwick in England.He compared the United States to Britain by saying "[h]ere the food is good and you are known for your good-looking women." He then spoke about the UK by saying that "[t]he food is terrible and the women are not very attractive."A spokesman for Burger King released a statement after Hees's comments were reported by the US press. "Mr. Hees apologises if his comment has offended anyone. It [...] was intended as a humorous anecdote to connect with his audience," the statement said.Hees's remarks have caused controversy in the United Kingdom. Charli Fritzner, who is a women's campaign officer at the University of Warwick said that "[i]f he views women as potential distractions in academia, I wonder how he views them in the workplace?." "It doesn't make Burger King an attractive employer for women," she added.Hees joined Burger King in October of last year. He oversees the company's 11,500 stores worldwide.United States President George W. Bush announced on October 29, 2007 the list of winners of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor which may be granted by the United States. President Harry Truman initiated the award in 1945 to honor civilian service during World War II and President John Kennedy re-established it in 1963.The Medal of Freedom may be awarded by the president to any person who has made an especially meritorious contribution to the security or national interests of the United States, or to world peace, cultural or other significant endeavors.The medals will be awarded on November 5, 2007.The winners are:Gary Becker, 1992 Nobel economics prize winnerOscar Elias Biscet, an anti-abortion and pro-democracy activist and political prisoner in CubaFrancis Collins, Human Genome Project leaderBenjamin Hooks, US civil rights leaderRetired Rep. Henry Hyde of Illinois and former chairman of the House Foreign Affairs committeeHarper Lee, author of the book To Kill a MockingbirdBrian Lamb, founder of the C-SPAN cable public affairs networkEllen Johnson-Sirleaf, president of Liberia and the first woman elected to head an African countryFrank Batten, the businessman who founded The Weather Channel, has died at the age of 82.  Batten died on September 10 after a long illness in Norfolk.  He is survived by his wife Jane and two daughters.  Batten started as a reporter and publisher and later ran a communications empire which included several newspapers and cable television. The nephew of Samuel L. Slover, he assumed leadership of The Virginian-Pilot and The Ledger-Star in 1954. He opened up his own communications empire Landmark Communications and added The Greensboro Daily News and The Roanoke Times in 1965 and 1969. In 1964 Batten launched TeleCable and expanded cable into 15 States. He was the chairman of the Associated Press from 1982 to 1987.On May 2, 1982, Batten launched The Weather Channel. Batten began to work on the idea after Good Morning America forecaster John Coleman suggested it. The channel broadcasts weather forecasts and weather related news 24 hours a day. Landmark sold the channel to NBC for $3.5 billion. Batten was ranked 190th on the 2008 400 Richest Americans list with an estimated fortune of $2.3 billion. He graduated from the College of Arts & Sciences of the University of Virginia in 1950 and was a significant donor to that institution.After not having the novel attraction of butter sculptures since the mid-1990s, the Canadian National Exhibition has revived the tradition in a limited fashion.In the past, farming exhibits have displayed elaborate, lifesize sculptures of celebrities, animals, and objects at "the Ex". Many best recall the sculpture of The Beatles, created in the 1970s.For their current exhibit however, the sculptures are relatively small. None of the sculptures created as of Sunday, August 21 were over two feet tall, and cramped sculpting facilities did not appear to encourage such larger endeavours. Sculptures included a caricatured cowboy with large pants, a deer, and a woman's face, neck and shoulders.The sign promoting the attraction bills the event as Butter Sculpture "Artists" suggesting the organizers question the artistic merit of unusual mediums. Butter sculpture is a popular attraction at many fairs across North America.The exhibit continues until the end of the CNE on Labour Day, in the Automotive Building's "Farm, Food and Fun" displays. According to the CNE's official website, the sculptures are being created by students from the Ontario College of Art.The US Secret Service has released the first photos Wednesday of the new presidential limousine that will transport Barack Obama down Pennsylvania Avenue next Tuesday as part of the 56th Presidential inaugural parade after he is sworn in at the Capitol. The First Limo - the 2009 Cadillac Presidential Limousine - will replace President Bush’s Cadillac DTS Presidential Limousine that rolled out in 2004.Nicknamed "The Beast", the hulking machine is a new model year 2009, modified limousine. According to General Motors, the new "2009 Cadillac Presidential Limousine" is the first not to carry a specific model name. The Obama Mobile was introduced on January 14 with noticeably different styling borrowed from the Cadillac Escalade and STS, while the suspension is most likely related to the Chevrolet Kodiak medium-duty truck. Mr. David Caldwell of General Motors has revealed that the sleek black car would include a hand-crafted interior and "state of the art electronics." The car's high-tech security features include five-inch-thick (12.7-centimeter-thick) bombproof glass, tough-as-nails tires, and a sealed interior that's invulnerable to chemical attack. The armoured limousine has been heavily modified to withstand potential attacks by weapons or bombs. The San Francisco Chronicle puts it in a proper perspective noting, “a half-inch of transparent armor is enough to stop a .44 Magnum round at point-blank range; at a thickness of 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 inches, the same material can withstand higher-velocity bullets fired from military assault rifles.”According to spy photographer, Brenda Priddy, and General Motors, the limousine, which has the intricate, dual-textured grille, is also equipped with standard Goodyear Regional RHS truck tires in a 285/70R19.5 size, on 19.5-inch wheels. The rims have a run-flat device (manufactured by Hutchinson Industries). Xenon headlights from the Escalade are installed in the front, while the rear has some STS part. The doors are at least 20 centimeters (8 inches) thick. It carries the US flag on the front fenders and an embroidered Seal of the President of the United States is affixed to several panels in the back.According to the US Secret Service, the vehicle would be a "valuable asset" in providing the President with the highest level of protection. "Although many of the vehicle's security enhancements cannot be discussed, it is safe to say that this car's security and coded communications systems make it the most technologically advanced protection vehicle in the world," Nicholas Trotta, Assistant Director for the Office of Protective Operations said in a statement. The new limousine is the responsibility of White House Transportation Agency.The Presidential State Car is the official state car used by the President of the United States. It is informally known as "Cadillac One". The current Presidential State Car is a 2005 hand-crafted, armored, and stretched DTS (DeVille Touring Sedan) built on a GM four-wheel drive platform. It was first used on the second inauguration parade of George W. Bush in 2005. But the version to be used by President Obama uses a GMC Topkick chassis, while maintaining the Cadillac exterior.The President of the United States travels in one of two armoured Cadillac limousines based upon the normal sedan, the Cadillac DTS, with heavy customisation. Lincoln cars have also been used in the past, most notably by President John F Kennedy. The current limousines were custom-built by O'Gara, Hess and Eisenhart, founded in Fairfield, Ohio in 1942. It specializes in armouring limousines for presidents and heads of state.President William McKinley was the first US president to ride in an automobile. However, it was President Theodore Roosevelt who rode on the first government-owned car, a white Stanley Steamer. Roosevelt's successor, William Howard Taft, was the first president to use a presidential state car that was permanently stored in the White House garage.Meanwhile, Obama's 2005 Chrysler 300C Hemi was auctioned on eBay with a starting bid of $100,000 and a buy-it-now price of $1,000,000. It has less than 21,000 miles on it and is in like-new condition. He leased the car in 2004 and traded it for a Ford Escape Hybrid in 2007. The car was sold to Tim O'Boyle.Two police officers are now on administrative leave after an incident in which they used pepper spray on protesters at U.S. University of California, Davis. The students were protesting in support of the Occupy Wall Street movement, and expressing support for University of California, Berkeley protesters who police used batons against on November 9.The incident was videoed and distributed  on YouTube and social networking websites including Facebook and Twitter. The footage shows a police officer spraying numerous students sat alongside each other on the ground at close range while walking past them. The video also displays officers detaining students as members of the crowd repeatedly shout the words "shame on you".According to CBS News, ten individuals were arrested by police at the scene. Nine students that were sprayed were given medical treatment at the location; Two were hospitalised, but later released.Linda P.B. Katehi, university chancellor, has accepted "full responsibility for the incident" and has launched an investigation. She described the use of such methods as "chilling"; the video displays, "sad and really very inappropriate" enforcement and the incident has prompted "many questions about how best to handle situations like this".Meanwhile, the Davis Faculty Association, representing academic staff, condemned the actions taken by the University of California, calling the actions of the police officers "unprovoked, disproportional and excessive". The association statement requested the chancellor of the university resign for what they called a "gross failure of leadership". Katehi has refused to resign, believing that she had not "violated the policies of the institution". She also stated: "I have worked personally very hard to make the campus a safe campus for all."Charles J. Kelly, who used to work as a lieutenant for Baltimore Police Department, defended the actions of the police officers as-seen in the video, calling it to be "fairly standard police procedure". Kelly explained that the use of pepper spray is preferable to physical force in such situations, as opposed to attempting to lift up protesters. "When you start picking up human bodies, you risk hurting them," explained Kelly. "Bodies don't have handles on them."University of California, Davis Police Chief Annette Spicuzza also defended the officers' actions, claiming "[t]he students had encircled the officers". They "needed to exit" and "were looking to leave but were unable to get out".A junior high language arts class from Manteca, California in the US is commemorating the six million Jews who died in the Holocaust by collecting six million paperclips. During World War II, the Norwegians wore paperclips on their shirts to protest the Nazi slaughter of Jews and other ethnic groups.Led by junior high language arts teacher Mrs. Aryel Saldate, the class has already collected over 7,000 paperclips. Mrs. Saldate had the idea when she saw a special on the television network HBO about another teacher who did the same thing and actually collected 6 million paperclips. Although it took the other class five years to achieve this feat, it helped her students realize just how widespread the Holocaust was.Mrs. Saldate can be reached by e-mail at asaldate@sjcoe.net. The official website for the cause is listed below.Please send your paperclip contribution to:8th Grade Language Artsc/o Sequoia School710 Martha StreetManteca CA 95336Dr. Conrad Murray, the doctor of the deceased singer Michael Jackson, has been given a four year prison sentence by a judge in the US city of Los Angeles, California, based on a charge of involuntary manslaughter, the maximum sentence he could receive for this offense. Steve Whitmore, a spokesperson for Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, told CBS News that Assembly Bill 109 would automatically halve the sentence to two years.In November of this year, after a six week trial, a jury found Murray guilty of providing Jackson with an excessive amount of propofol, which caused his death in 2009. Judge Michael Pastor condemned Dr. Murray's actions, calling his behavior a "continuous pattern of lies and deceit" and him a "danger to the community", having committed a "horrific violation of trust". Murray may also lose his medical license.In the aftermath of the sentencing, Katherine Jackson, the mother of Michael Jackson, told KTLA: "Four years is not enough for someone's life. It won't bring him back but at least he got the maximum." Jackson expressed thanks to the prosecutors and the judge, calling the latter "very, very fair". Meanwhile, Jermaine Jackson, Michael Jackson's brother, said "[o]ne hundred years is not enough".The defense had requested probation as Murray already faced "a lifetime sentence of self-punishment" and life-long reputation as "the man who killed Michael Jackson". The judge refused to allow probation, saying it wasn't justified by Murray's actions.A U.S. Court of Appeals on Friday has declared unconstitutional California Assembly Bills 1792 & 1793, the California "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.Federal judge Consuelo M. Callahan has ruled that the 2005 statewide ban, which has yet to be enforced, violates minors' rights under the US Constitution's First and 14th amendment because even the most graphic on-screen mayhem, video game content represents free speech that cannot be censored without proper justification. The Court has ruled that there’s no convincing evidence it causes psychological damage to young people. The 3-0 judgment has affirmed an earlier ruling by a U.S. District Court, which barred enforcement of the law on the basis that it was "unduly restrictive" and "used overly broad definitions," and that the state failed to show that the limitations on violent video games would actually protect children.In 2005, Leland Yee (余胤良), a California State Senator (in District 8 which includes the western half of San Francisco and most of San Mateo County), Speaker pro Tempore of the Assembly (D-San Francisco/Daly City),  introduced California Assembly Bills 1792 & 1793 which barred "ultra-violent" video games from minors under the age of eighteen in California and mandated the application of ESRB ratings for video games. "California Assembly Bills 1792 & 1793" were commonly called the "ultraviolent video games bills" or simply "video game ban" bills. Bill 1792 banned the sales of such video games while Bill 1793 required signs explaining the regulations on said games to be placed where such were sold. Both bills were passed by the Assembly and signed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger into law (AB 1179) on October 7, 2005.Explicitly, these two bills provided that:AB 1792 will place ultra-violent video games into the "matter" portion of the penal code, which criminalizes the sale of said material to a minor.AB 1793 will require retailers to place M-rated games separate from other games intended for children, and will also require retailers to display signage explaining the ESRB rating system.Yee, a former child psychologist has publicly criticized such games as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Manhunt 2, and opposes the U.S. Army's Global Gaming League. On October 17, 2005, before the effectivity of the challenged Act, plaintiffs Video Software Dealers Association, the not-for-profit international trade association dedicated to advancing the interests of the $32 billion home entertainment industry and Entertainment Software Association, a 1994 US trade association of the video game industry have filed lawsuit (D.C. No. CV-05-04188-RMW) against the defendants Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, CA Attorney General, Edmund G. Brown, Santa Clara County District Attorney George Kennedy, City Attorney for the City of San Jose, Richard Doyle, and County Counsel for the County of Santa Clara, Ann Miller Ravel.Plaintiffs' counsel, Jenner & Block's Paul M. Smith has filed a declaratory relief to invalidate the newly-enacted California Civil Code sections 1746-1746.5 (the “Act”), on the grounds that it allegedly violated 42 U.S.C. § 1983 and the First and Fourteenth Amendments.  Plaintiffs have submitted that "the Act unconstitutionally curtailed freedom of expression on its face based on content regulation and the labeling requirement, was unconstitutionally vague, and violated equal protection. California's restrictions could open the door for states to limit minors' access to other material under the guise of protecting children."By December 2005, both bills had been struck down as unconstitutional, by Ronald M. Whyte, District Judge, Presiding in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California in San Jose, thereby preventing either from going into effect on January 1, 2006. Judge Whyte has granted plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction in "Video Software Dealers Ass’n v. Schwarzenegger," 401 F. Supp. 2d 1034 (N.D. Cal. 2005), and cross-motions for summary judgment, in "Video Software Dealers Ass’n v. Schwarzenegger," No. C-05-04188, slip op. (N.D. Cal. Aug. 6, 2007). Similar bills were subsequently filed in such states as Illinois, Oklahoma, Minnesota, Michigan and Louisiana have been ruled to be unconstitutional by federal courts on First Amendment grounds, according to Sean Bersell, a spokesman for the Entertainment Merchants Association. The defendants, in the instant Case No. 07-16620, have timely appealed the judgment. On October 29, 2008, the appealed case was argued and submitted to the Sacramento, California's U.S. Court of Appeals, hence, the promulgation of the instant 30 pages decision (No. 07-16620; D.C. No. CV-05-04188-RMW) by Alex Kozinski, Chief Judge, Sidney R. Thomas and Consuelo M. Callahan (who wrote the court's opinion), United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Judges.In the ban’s defense, Deputy Attorney General for the State of California, Zackery Morazzini has contended that "if governments restrict the sale of pornography to minors, it should also create a separate category for ultra-violent video games." Edmund Gerald "Jerry" Brown, Jr., California Attorney General, has also argued that "the Court should analyze the Act’s restrictions under what has been called the 'variable obscenity' or 'obscenity as to minors' standard first mentioned in Ginsberg, 390 U.S. 629. The Court’s reasoning in Ginsberg that a state could prohibit the sale of sexually-explicit material to minors that it could not ban from distribution to adults should be extended to materials containing violence."The "Fallo" or dispositive portion of the judgment in question goes as follows:"We need to help empower parents with the ultimate decision over whether or not their children play in a world of violence and murder," said the law's author, Sen. Leland Yee, announcing he wanted Edmund Gerald "Jerry" Brown, Jr., the current Attorney General and a former governor of the State of California, to appeal the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court. "Letting the industry police itself is like letting kids sign their own report cards and that a self regulating system simply doesn't work. I've always contended that the ... law the governor signed was a good one for protecting children from the harm from playing these ultra-violent video games. I've always felt it would end up in the Supreme Court," Sen. Yee explained. "In fact, the high court recently agreed, in Roper v. Simmons (2005), that we need to treat children differently in the eyes of the law due to brain development," he added.According to Michael D. Gallagher, president of the Entertainment Software Association, plaintiff, the Court's ruling has stressed that parents, with assistance from the industry, are the ones who should control what games their children play. "This is a clear signal that in California and across the country, the reckless pursuit of anti-video game legislation like this is an exercise in wasting taxpayer money, government time and state resources," Gallagher said in a statement.Entertainment Software Association members include Disney Interactive Studios, Electronic Arts, Microsoft Corp, THQ Inc, Sony Computer Entertainment America, and Take-Two Interactive Software, the maker of “Grand Theft Auto” games. Judge Callahan has also reprimanded state lawyers for having failed to show any reasonable alternatives to an outright statewide ban against the ultra-violent video games. "Ratings education, retailer ratings enforcement, and control of game play by parents are the appropriate responses to concerns about video game content," said Bo Andersen, president and chief executive of the Entertainment Merchants Association. Andersen continues, "retailers are committed to assisting parents in assuring that children do not purchase games that are not appropriate for their age. Independent surveys show that retailers are doing a very good job in this area, with an 80 percent enforcement rate, and retailers will continue to work to increase enforcement rates even further; the court has correctly noted that the state cannot simply dismiss these efforts."California was already forced to pay $282,794 to the ESA for attorneys' fees, money that would've helped with the state's current budget difficulties. Andersen has urged California government officials not to appeal the case. "The estimated $283,000 in taxpayer money spent by the state on this case is so far an 'ill-advised, and ultimately doomed, attempt at state-sponsored nannyism.' A voluntary ratings system already exists to avoid the state-sponsored nannyism of a ban," he explained."The governor believes strongly we have a responsibility to our children and our communities to protect against the effects of video games depicting ultra-violent actions,"  said Governor Schwarzenegger spokeswoman Camille Anderson adding the governor was reviewing Friday's decision.Deputy Attorney General Zackery Morazzini, the state's counsel in the appealed case, has stressed that "a law restricting sales of violent games is far more effective than industry self-policing, since the technological controls that the court cited as another alternative can be easily bypassed by any kid with an Internet connection."According to Jim Steyer, Founder of Common Sense Media, a non-profit organization of 750,000 regular users dedicated to improving children’s media lives, researches have shown that playing these violent video games are detrimental for kids mental and physical health. “The health threat involved with kids playing such games is equivalent to smoking cigarettes,” Steyer said. “These violent video games are learning tools for our children and clearly result in more aggressive behavior,” said Randall Hagar, California Psychiatric Association’s Director of Government Affairs.The Federal Trade Commission's data reveals that "nearly 70 percent of thirteen to sixteen year olds are able to purchase M-rated (Mature) video games, which are designed for adults; ninety-two percent of children play video or computer games, of which about forty percent are rated M, which are the fastest growing segment of the 10 billion-dollar video game industry; the top selling games reward players for killing police officers, maiming elderly persons, running over pedestrians and committing despicable acts of murder and torture upon women and racial minorities."On July 5, 2009, Michael Jackson's 2005 compilation album The Essential went to number 1 in the UK Album Chart, following a sudden rise in his record sales after his death. Finally, after a seven week run at the top of the album chart, the compilation, which contains a selection of Michael Jackson's hits, finally fell five places to number 6. The album now at number 1 is Calvin Harris's Ready for the Weekend. The album contains a selection of tracks, such as "I'm Not Alone" and "Ready for the Weekend". Harris hopes to get to number 1 in the UK Singles Chart with the latter.Calvin Harris also managed to beat rapper Tinchy Stryder's album in the sales battle, with Catch 22 only getting to number 2.The information is provided from The Official Charts Company and is announced on the BBC Radio 1's Chart Show every Sunday from 4:00PM to 7:00PM BST.After finding out that he will not have to service a troublesome brand of British-made planes, RJ-100, at the airport, Şükrü Can, the manager of Turkish Airlines maintenance service, decided to slaughter a camel right on the tarmac of Istanbul's Ataturk Airport.Airport manager Vedat Muftuoglu was quoted to say:Turkish minister of transportation Binali Yildirim has characterized the sacrifice an "example of tactless behavior."After the managerial staff at the airport heard about the incident, Can's sacrifice claimed his job. Animal slaughter is not a rare incident in Turkey. Sheep and other animals are frequently slaughtered, especially during the Islamic Sacrifice Feast. However sacrificing a camel is highly unusual in Turkey, and not a common practice.Less than a week after it was first banned and then cleared for screening in the U.K., an Australian tourism ad featuring a bikini-clad girl asking prospective tourists "Where the Bloody Hell are you?" has been banned in Canada. Ironically, it wasn't the controversial question  — a line described as "warm, friendly and inviting" — that got the ad banned, but its opening: "We've poured you a beer." This line was ruled unacceptable by the Canadian regulator, as it refers to an unbranded beer.Australian Tourism Minister Fran Bailey was "quite astonished" by the move but has thanked the Canadian government for providing free publicity for the ad, saying, "As far as this particular Canadian regulator is concerned, I'd love him to come out here and I'll buy him a beer and say thank-you."The Rocket: The Maurice Richard Story was Canada's most-honoured film from 2006 at Tuesday's 27th Genie Awards in Toronto. The dramatisation of revered Montreal Canadiens ice hockey player Maurice Richard won in 9 of the 13 categories for which it was nominated.The bilingual police-comedy Bon Cop, Bad Cop was 2006's most financially successful movie within Canada which earned it the Golden Reel Award. It also won the Best Picture category and a sound category, but was shut out of the rest of its ten nominated Genie categories.The Genies are Canada's leading motion picture honours, conducted each year by the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television.Prime Minister Stephen Harper said that Canadians want the nation to take a clear, confident and influential role on the global stage, and they understand the dangers that go along with that.Harper was in Calgary, Alberta to receive the Woodrow Wilson Award for his public service in Calgary. It was held at the Telus Convention Centre, the same place where he made his victory speech."I believe Canadians want a significant role a clear, confident and influential role," Harper said. "They don't want a Canada that just goes along; they want a Canada that leads; I intend to make this a country that leads."Harper also said that Canada is becoming an "emerging energy superpower," but warned the oilpatch has a responsibility to ensure the environment doesn't take a back seat. "Here in Alberta, where that energy power can almost be felt, something else must be equally appreciated. That with power comes responsibility," he said. "Given the environmental challenges that energy production presents, Alberta must also become a world leader in environmentally responsible energy production."Chris Sands, a senior associate at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said Harper has re-established Canada as a growing power that's becoming more respected on the world stage.Nominations for the Genie Awards, Canada's leading motion picture honours, were announced on Tuesday by the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television.The following films received the most nominations this year:The Rocket: The Maurice Richard Story, a dramatic portrayal of the honoured Montreal Canadiens hockey player, earned 13 nominations;The bilingual police-comedy Bon Cop, Bad Cop was 2006's most financially successful Canadian movie and it picked up ten nominations;Seven nominations went to Un dimanche à Kigali (A Sunday in Kigali), a drama set in Rwanda;Tideland, a movie produced by Terry Gilliam of Monty Python fame, was filmed in Saskatchewan and earned six nominations.A best picture nomination was also given to Trailer Park Boys: The Movie, one of the few successful domestic films at Canadian box offices in 2006. That movie is based on a popular, internationally-distributed Canadian television series.The Genie Awards will be presented on 13th February at a ceremony at the Carlu theatre in Toronto.Barbara Kent, a popular Canadian actress in silent movies who starred in the 1926 film Flesh and the Devil, died on October 13 at the age of 103.Kent was born Barbara Klowtmann on December 16, 1907 in Gadsby, Alberta, Canada.She was among the last of the surviving players from the silent film period.She attracted attention in the 1927 film No Man's Law by swimming nude; she wore a flesh colored bathing suit in scenes that were considered very daring at the time. She made a smooth transition into talking pictures, opposite Harold Lloyd in the 1929 comedy Welcome Danger.Over the next few years she landed several roles including one in the 1933 film Oliver Twist - the first non-silent adaptation.Following the death of her husband in 1949, Kent retreated from public life. She came to refuse to acknowledge her film career and extend very few interviews.Canadian Heritage Minister Bev Oda has appointed Timothy W. Casgrain as the new chairman of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC)."Mr. Casgrain's credentials will bring strong leadership to the CBC," said Oda. "I am confident that his experience and sound judgement will greatly benefit the CBC."Casgrain was born in Montreal, Quebec and studied at McGill University. In 1969, he served as a teacher in a small African town in Chad for two years. Some years later, he became an accountant. In 1976, he was chairperson of Skyservice Investments Inc., a Canadian aviation company and was Executive Vice President of the Brascan Financial Corp. In 1988, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of NBS Technologies.Since then, Casgrain has served many other positions and has many other honours in his name. Casgrain has been a member of the Order of Chartered Accountants of Quebec since 1976 and is the president of the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame.Created by the Brampton Arts Council and the City of Brampton, the Studios of Brampton studio tour will allow residents a chance to view works by dozens of local artists at twelve locations.The tour will run October 1 & 2 from 10 pm until 4 pm ET.On the tour are the personal studios of watercolourist Jack Reid, sculpture Marion Bartlett, woodworker Rick Bino, ceramicist Eric Wong, calligrapher and fashion illustrator Rosemarie Gidvani, abstract painter Karen Darling, oil painter John Cutruzzola, stain-glass artist Darlene Robichaud, and watercolourist Gordon Stuart.Also on the tour is the Art Gallery of Peel, which will be exhibiting Sydney Drum, a Canadian artist based in New York, and Kelly McNeil.Visual Arts Brampton and Beaux-Arts Brampton will both have line-ups of local artist members. VAB has confirmed displays by William Band, Bridget Doughty, Betty Jean Evans, Marguerite Finlayson, Conrad Mieschke, Keith Moreau, Mary Noble, Olga Rudge, and Elizabeth Patrick.Sample works representing each location on the tour will be shown at the Brampton City Hall's Atrium Gallery.The Canadian film industry's major awards night, the Genie Awards, takes place on Monday. The Genie Awards begun in 1949 as the Canadian Film Awards, and current nominations include the films  L'Âge des ténèbres, Away from Her, Continental, un film sans fusil, Eastern Promises, and Shake Hands With the Devil.Notably absent from the nominations is the film Juno, an Academy Award nominee for Best Picture. Most of the lead actors in Eastern Promises and Away from Her were not Canadian, and Eastern Promises was filmed overseas. The leads of Juno, in comparison, are all Canadian, and the movie was filmed in the country, despite the financial backing for the film being from an American source.CAVCO is the Canadian Audio-Visual Certification Office, part of the Department of Canadian Heritage. The CRTC is the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, a communications authority like the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the United States, Independent Television Commission (ITC) in the UK (excluding Wales), and the Australian Communications and Media Authority.This weekend, March 25 and 26, was a big weekend in the Ottawa area for Canadian Idol want a Be's. Canadian Idol is a national singing competition that is organized by CTV Inc. a Canadian broadcasting communications company for Canadian citizens. The television show, greatly based on "American Idol," has been on going for several seasons. In the past auditions have been know to have line-ups of thousands of people, however, this year after taking a tour around the new location it appears that line ups were manageable. Having the auditions at the St. Laurent Shopping mall makes this easier said Idol's security coordinator Rick Paciorek. Organizers have decided to change the way the auditions will "rock and roll."Having decided last minute, Saturday evening, to participate in the singing contest I decided to practice "I heard it through the grape vine" and "It's all coming back to me now." Lined up and registered on Sunday at around 10:30 a.m. the whole thing was fairly easy. Compared to previous year’s contestant may show up at any time they wish, in between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.At 10:30 a.m. Sunday morning there were no real line ups for registration. Security and Canadian Idol greeting staff did however say that Saturday was "crazy (busy) with people lining-up as early as 5:00 a.m."After receiving my competition number 16350 I tagged it to my shirt and ran back around to wait in line. Compared to my previous experience in Toronto 2003 this was heaven. A few competitors explored the shopping mall during this time. In Toronto 2003 the line up lasted about 18 hours before I got passed the first step.Anxiety was in the air and to sooth the feeling a lot of people socialized. I talked to the closest person to me, a girl called Bambi that sings regularly at a local pub called the Royal Oaks. She sings every Thursday. Just before heading off to the audition a large pack of competitors just came back from the new Museum of War. As I waited in line I wondered if I should practice my songs. Within no time, we were up! We were called to sing in front of two judges in groups of five. The whole ordeal was over within approximately 2 hours. Actually, by 12:30 I was at home eating lunch and a little disappointed in my last minute decisions.Also, compared to last year the maximum age limit went up from 26 to 28 years old. Participants may now be between the age of 16 and 28 years old.There is even a "forum" discussion for those that want advice or comments about Canadian Idol. [1]. The next Canadian Idol Auditions will be held in Halifax April 8 & 9, 2006.Last night was the eliminations for Canadian Idol's top 4. Chad Doucette of Chezzetcook, Nova Scotia was voted off. The show started with the current top 4 singing together on stage.Rex Goudie performed live on the Canadian Idol stage last night. Goudie performed his hit single "Run". Host Ben Mulroney presented Goudie, the 2005 Canadian Idol runner-up, with a Platinum Record on behalf of Sony BMG Music (Canada) Inc. and Canadian Idol for his hit CD Under The Lights.Eva Avila and Craig Sharpe were safe and Chad Doucette was called to centre stage with Tyler Lewis. After the commercial break the results were announced.Ben Mulroney - "Eva and Craig you're safe".Ben Mulroney - "Chad you're eliminated".After the results were revealed, Mulroney thanked Doucette: "I am so glad you decided to come back and audition this year," he said. "If there is anything you have shown us in your run to Top 4 is how memorable you are.""I don't know if I was as confident in what I wanted to do before I started this competition, but now I am absolutely positive I want to be a musician," Doucette said. "You guys showed me that it's alright to be unique. Thank you!""You've got a unique voice, which means you have to sing your own words," Jake Gold advised him after the results were announced. "Keep doing what you're doing and write songs."Next week the top 3 will go to New York to talk with Tony Bennett.This week Canadian Idol got a record of 4.3 million votes. "When the competition is this good and only four singers are left, each week is anybody's game", said Mulroney.Last night the top four of Canadian Idol performed. Tyler Lewis, Chad Doucette, Craig Sharpe, and Eva Avila sang songs that were picked by the judges. They each performed twice in one hour. They are now awaiting Canadas vote for who should be eliminated.When the show started the host had a quick chat with the judges:Ben Mulroney: "What did you keep in mind when you made these selections?"Jake Gold: "We thought let's make them look good and at the same time challenge them."Ben Mulroney: "How hard was it to pick the songs for tonight?"Sass Jordan: "We were fighting, we were yelling, we were screaming, we were singing...at the endBen Mulroney: "What do you think of this Top Four?"Farley Flex: "We've got four distinct talents, four distinct styles and four really cool names that everybody is going to hear about next year in the music industry."Ben Mulroney: "Is this the time where range and versatility come into play?"Zack Werner: "It's all fantastic material...tonight is the night where you either put up or you Ben Mulroney.""When we made the selections, we thought let's make them look good and at the same time challenge them," said Idol judge Jake Gold at the beginning of the show."I was all ready to go 'he shoots, he scores,' but you came out really flat in the third period," said Idol judge Zack Werner when he was judging Tyler Lewis' first performance of the night.The results show will be featuring a special guest performance from last year's Top 2 competitor, Rex Goudie of Burlington, Newfoundland.Canadian jazz star Diana Krall has given birth Wednesday to twin boys named Dexter Henry Lorcan and Frank Harlan James in New York City, where the couple live."We are ecstatic!" and the "mother and sons are doing splendidly," reads a statement released by Krall and her husband, English musician Elvis Costello, best known for songs such as "Pump It Up" and "Alison".The twins are Krall's first children. Costello already has a child from an earlier marriage.Costello, 52, and Krall, 42, shared the birth of their two sons on their third wedding anniversary."I have twins on my mother's side," Krall told People magazine in September. Krall, born in Nanaimo, British Columbia, who is a Grammy award winner, and was named an officer of the Order of Canada in 2005, released her latest album titled "From This Moment On" in September.The couple married three years ago in a ceremony held at Elton John's mansion in Surrey, England in December 2003. Paul McCartney and Pamela Wallin, Canada's consul general to New York were invited among the 150 guests.Robert 'Bob' Edmonds, who sued the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation (OLG), died Monday in hospital at age 83 of cancer."He'll be remembered as the guy who just wouldn't go away," said Ontario Ombudsman André Marin speaking of the loss. "I was the speakerphone and he was the speaker – I merely amplified what he had to say. He deserves the credit for the entire thing."Edmonds of Coboconk, Ontario first came to fight the OLG in 2001 when he was "robbed" of his lottery winning of CAN$250,000 by a store clerk. He asked the store clerk's wife Phyllis LaPlante to check the tickets and she said he did not win but won a free ticket (when someone wins a lottery prize in Canada a small sound goes off in the store). Days after, the couple who owned the store were in the local newspaper saying they had won the jackpot of $250,000. When he contacted the OLG they denied the allegations, and when the couple were arrested for fraud they refused to return his winnings. He sued the LaPlantes for the winnings and settled for $150,000.In 2002, Edmonds sued the corporation and signed a confidentiality agreement on behalf of the OLG after a judge asked them to rightfully give him the money he won. They gave him $200,000 three years later. Last Friday they gave him $50,000 dollars more, for a total of $250,000.In October 2006, CBC's The Fifth Estate showed that more retailers from 1999 to 2006 were winning instead of the customers. After the broadcast OLG's former CEO called him and personally apologised and the company started to create more security measures for customers.Following the allegations, 1,000,000 scratch tickets were recalled and on March 23, 2007 CEO Duncan Brown announced he resigned his position. Days later Ontario Ombudsman André Marin sparked up an investingation into the OLG however it is still ongoing.Edmonds leaves his wife, daughter, and two sons.Noted Toronto resident and Canadian merchant and theatre owner Ed Mirvish has died. On July 11, 2007, the Mirvish family released a statement confirming his passing earlier that morning at St. Michael’s Hospital, Toronto. "Honest Ed", as he was known, was two weeks away from reaching his 93rd birthday."Mr. Mirvish did pass away this morning at around 1:30a.m. at St. Mike's Hospital," said his friend Russell Lazar.The mayor of Toronto, David Miller, told CBC News that, "His store was about making sure that everyone could afford to live with some dignity and decency. His theatres were about bringing some joy and passion into people's lives."Mirvish was known for his landmark discount store, Honest Ed's, and as a patron of the arts who helped revitalize the theatre scene in Toronto.Musician Jeff Healey, 41, has died in Toronto, Canada from cancer, it was announced Sunday. Healey is internationally known for his 1988 album See the Light and for his appearance the following year in the movie Road House with Patrick Swayze. His hits included Angel Eyes.He was born Norman Jeffery Healey on March 25, 1966 in Toronto. At the age of 1, he was blinded from retinoblastoma, but still learned how to play the guitar by positioning the instrument on his lap.Healey was host of various Canadian radio programs in recent years and was set to release a new blues-rock album within weeks. He is survived by his wife and two children, 13-year-old Rachel and 3-year-old Derek.From August 17 to September 3, 2007 the Canadian National Exhibition (CNE or The EX) came back to Toronto for its 128th year. It is the largest in Canada and the fifth largest in North America.The three day Canadian International Airshow, the horse show called "Tom Bishop's Trick Riding Show", and many other events were the main attractions at this year's CNE. An estimated 1.3 million people attend the CNE every year.The 680 News tower made entirely from Lego's was on display, with a fence around it.On Saturday at 1:00 p.m. was the airshow, which featured award winning aviators, including the Canadian Forces (CF) snowbirds, flying planes used in Afghanistan. The United States Air Force (USAF) also flew planes used in the military and a new F-22 Raptor fighter aircraft for its first time in an international show. A CF-18 Hornet, Canadian version of the USAF F/A-18 Hornet, 1943 Boeing Stock Stearman PT-17, and many other rare planes were also flown. Everyone could see the airshow but for a good photo and video opportunity freelance Wikinews journalist and others paid CA$5.00 to get on top of Ontario Place, across from the exhibition grounds. There was a ton of stairs to get to the top, but it was well worth it if one wanted excellent photos and video to watch with their family."I used to come to the air show every year with my dad ... being out there flying over Lake Ontario in my hometown is unbelievable," said Capt. Yanick "Crank" Gregoire of the CF-18 Hornet, on its 25th anniversary.General Rick Hillier, Chief of the Defence Staff of the Canadian Forces, made a brief speech and talked about Canada's mission in Afghanistan. Followed by was a pre-recorded speech made by Prime Minister Stephen Harper. Then the American and Canadian national anthems were played and the show begun, it even included a live pilot in a Canadian Forces plane talking through his microphone into the speakers on top of Ontario Place. The airshow was something not to be missed as the staggering planes are always best watched live.In the Direct Energy Centre at Exhibition Place were many vendors and people selling books, cloths, inventions, and even some live cooking shows. There was also a arts, crafts, and hobbies building, which was one of the best places to visit at this year's CNE. Rides and attractions filled the grounds across Ontario Place.The famous Iams-sponsored Superdogs performed dog tricks for an audience in a large area, while behind the curtains were salespeople at booths advertising and selling Iams dog food. They perform at the Royal Winter Fair in Toronto and other fairs in Canada.At 5:00pm was the horse show at the Riding Academy "Horse Palace", hosted by Tom Bishop Sr. There was a woman representing Ontario, a 15-year-old girl from Alberta representing Canada, and a man from the United States on a black horse. One of the horse riders, a champion, was from Canada but moved to the U.S. and has toured both countries. Tom Bishop Jr. stood and rode on top of two "Canadians", the most rare and oldest horse breed in North America. The horses had to jump over a line of gas-led fire, Tom Bishop Sr. noted beforehand that horses are scared of fire.At 9:00 p.m. was the Human Cannon Ball, from the U.S. Performed by David "The Bullet" Smith, Jr., son of Cannonball Smith, is the second person in the world that can do the "don't-do-this-at-home-or-else!" stunt. It is their third year at the CNE. Most people came 20 minutes before to get a good spot. The shot was so loud that some had to plug their ears, and if one didn't their heart would be beating hard. Smith jumped out like he's done that stunt a thousand times, he did a push up on the ground and quickly ran back.While walking to the Ontario Place parking lot, as soon as the "Human Cannon Ball" was finished, the Canadian Forces had several of their vehicles used in Afghanistan on display outside. A snowbirds plane, some LAV III's, tanks, a helicopter, and a boat were on display. Soldiers were outside to greet and talk to the visitors, and had photos taken. A large banner was hung and old music was playing. People even signed a board beside a tank showing their support and thanks to the soldiers currently deployed. There was also a large tent with real Canadian soldiers giving away bracelets and showing actual uniforms used. They were very heavy and one soldier actually said the cloths are comfortable. It wasn't clear which base the soldiers came from but one said that he came from Halifax, Nova Scotia.The CNE closes every night at 11:00pm.It ends on Labour Day at 7:00pm.Tuesday, Prime Minister Stephen Harper was filming a cameo appearance on the popular sitcom Corner Gas. Corner Gas is filmed about 40 km south of Regina in the tiny farming community of Rouleau.Harper was filmed in a scene where he was surrounded by a large group of actors playing reporters and photographers. After completing the scene, he got back into his car and a motorcade left the town, which is called Dog River on the show."We can't say much about cameo appearances, because they're supposed to be a surprise for the viewers, but yes, there was press scrum," Corner Gas executive producer Virginia Thompson said. "That's all I can reveal." "It works well for the show, actually ... We were told by the Prime Minister's Office that he had a sense of humour, but we thought we would wait and see and sure enough, yeah, he delivered."When Paul Martin was the leader of the government, he had a cameo on the show last season. Saskatchewan Premier Lorne Calvert has also made an appearance on the show last season."The prime minister was not paid for his appearance and had other reasons for coming to Saskatchewan beyond being part of the show", said Thompson.Reporters were kept back and not allowed to see how he performed in front of the cameras.Harper waved goodbye to small town of Rouleau while travelling down Highway 39 away from the set after spending about 1 1/2 hours there. After, Harper planned to meet with members of his Saskatchewan caucus at a barbeque at Sherwood Forest Country Club Tuesday night. Harper is scheduled to tour the RCMP training academy in Regina today.The episode featuring Harper will air sometime next spring.On Monday, April 6 Saskatchewan Premier, Brad Wall, signed the proclamation that April 13 shall be declared “Corner Gas Day” to honour six seasons of the award winning sitcom, Corner Gas the hit television comedy which will air its last episode “Good Night, You've Been Great” April 13, 2009. Lead comedian, producer and writer, Brent Butt was recognised at the signing ceremonies for developing what is called the most successful Canadian show made.  "For six great seasons, Corner Gas has welcomed people from across Canada and around the world to our province, and made short work of the misconception that there's 'not a lot going on' in Saskatchewan. We want to thank Saskatchewan's own Brent Butt, the Corner Gas producers, cast and crew for many hours of laughter." said Wall, "Their stories have really captured the spirit of this great province, and shown off Saskatchewan to the world."Corner Gas has an audience of 1.4 million in Canada since first airing in January 2004. The show has been honoured with over 80 nominations, and diverse accolades and awards such as six Gemini awards, one of which was Best Comedy Series."I'm honestly humbled by this. It's a wonderful and much appreciated gesture by my home province to honour us in this way. It's the type of honour you don't even think about happening, so when it does, it makes you stand up and think: 'Wow, maybe we really did something here'," said Butt.Joking with Wall, Butt suggested that “Corner Gas Day” should be a statutory holiday, if not for everybody then at least for service station attendants. The proclamation signing was aired on CTV the same Monday that Wall was featured in a cameo appearance on the Corner Gas series episode, "Get the F Off my Lawn".  Wall was filmed in a scene in which he was getting his gas tank filled up at the Corner Gas service station.Susanne Boyce, President, Creative, Content and Channels, CTV Inc  said "It's farewell, not goodbye. While April 13 marks the series' finale, the memories and the legacy it leaves behind will live on forever. A heartfelt thank you goes out to everyone who have made this history-making series a juggernaut success, and to the millions of fans who visited Dog River weekly."The Canadian comedy series is aired by CTV Television Network in Canada and is distributed to 26 countries worldwide.The popular sitcom, Corner Gas is filmed about 40 kilometers (25 mi) south of Regina in the tiny farming community of Rouleau. CTV will air tributes on April 13 in honour of Corner Gas and Dog River which feature the cast and behind the scenes footage.Canadian rapper Bad News Brown has been found dead in southwestern Montreal. Brown, whose real name was Paul Frappier, was found by some abandoned buildings near the Lachine Canal by a passerby. He was 33 years-old. Oliver Lapointe, a police spokesman, said Frappier's upper body had "clear signs of violence". He added "We do not know the motive and we have no witnesses."Henry Gelot, Frappier's manager, released a statement saying "Bad News Brown's death is a great loss for the entire hip-hop and music community in Quebec. In addition to being one of the first rappers from Quebec to reach international acclaim, Bad News Brown has certainly left a mark on everyone who knew him."Frappier was born on the island of Haiti. He moved to Canada when still young and was adopted by a family from Montreal. He started his career as a street busker and performed in several Montreal Metro stations. According to his Facebook page he later became an opening act for several major stars including 50 Cent, Snoop Dog, and Kanye West. Born 2 Sin, Frappier's first album, was released a year ago.Fans have also paid tribute to Frappier through his Facebook page. One person commented "Your sounds will flow for eternity."Canadian pop and R&B singer Justin Bieber has announced he will publish a memoir. Titled Justin Bieber: First Step 2 Forever: My Story, the hardcover book features several photos and will cover the sixteen-year-old's "journey to superstardom".In a statement issued through HarperCollins, the memoir's publisher, Bieber said, "My fans have played such a large part in all of this and they help me live my dreams every day. I'm excited to share just a little bit more of my world with them through this book. Between the behind-the-scenes pictures and the story, I think this is going to be something they can all enjoy. This is just another way for me to say thank you to my fans."The book is scheduled to be sold for US$21.99 starting on October 22. Along with a planned biopic and a biographical comic book titled Fame: Justin Bieber, the memoir is to form Bieber's three-part biography.CBC Television's hit show Little Mosque on the Prairie is set to debut in France, Switzerland, and French-speaking African countries.The show, which is owned by WestWind Pictures, is a comedy about a Muslim family living in Canada's Prairies, in a largely Muslim populated fictional town called Mercy, Saskatchewan. It deals with day-to-day life between the North American culture and Muslim culture and has been featured around the world with reviews from The New York Times to The Daily Telegraph.French television company Canal+ Group will distribute the show's first season in July to non-subscribers of Canal+, a channel which viewers must subscribe to watch. French voice-actors will dub the show in all three regions' local French dialect."Little Mosque On The Prairie's international success is a testament to the quality of Canadian talent and how it is embraced around the world," said Kirstine Layfield, executive director of network programming with CBC Television.Mary Darling of Westwind Pictures said the show creates a good understanding between both cultures."When people came in the booth and sat down to talk to us, the first sentence wasn't: 'Hey, hilarious show, love the jokes, what a laugh.' Instead, it was viewed as a show that's needed beyond comic relief. People are looking at it to break down barriers, build bridges, create understanding, and find a voice for people who are unheard or unrepresented," Darling said.The series premiere gained 2.1 million viewers; it gained an average of 1.2 million viewers for the first season. The second season is already in filming and is set to air this fall.Garth Drabinsky and Myron Gottlieb, founders of Live Entertainment Corporation of Canada, Inc. (Livent) in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, were sentenced Wednesday to concurrent prison terms for corporate fraud and forgery which resulted in millions of dollars in losses to their investors for close to a decade.  Drabinsky received four years on one count and seven years on a second count.  Gottlieb got four years and six years on two counts of fraud."No one is above the law.  No one gets to write his own rules," said Ontario Superior Court Justice Mary Lou Benotto. "Corporate fraud such as this results in tangible losses to employees, creditors and investors."File:Freddyphantom.jpgSenior executives Drabinsky, Gottlieb, Robert Topol, and Gorden Eckstein were all charged by the RCMP in 2002.  Eckstein pleaded guilty to fraud and testified at the court cast against Drabinsky and Gottleib.  Topol had his trial stayed due to adjournments and delays.The Livent company had produced plays such as The Phantom of the Opera, Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, Show Boat, and Ragtime in Toronto, before its sale to Michael Ovitz in 1998.  Ovitz ordered an audit of the company following which it went bankrupt by the year's end. Livent filed a CA$225 million lawsuit against the former chairman Drabinsky and former president Gottlieb, who were summarily dismissed. Drabinsky and Gottlieb are also facing charges in the United States for misrepresentations of financial worth to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.An Oakville, Ontario woman married a man on New Zealand radio station The Edge after winning reality show Three Strangers and a Wedding.Chantelle Swanson, 26, had only talked to Paul Court, her husband and who is a 29-year-old horse driver, through the telephone.Invercargill Mayor and marriage celebrant Tim Shadbolt conducted the ceremony."They're great, and I know they will stand by me even if my family won't. It's about him and I, making it work," Swanson said.Swanson had met with all three families of the three "groom's" prior to making her final decision for who to marry. One was eliminated in an earlier episode leaving Court and 29-year-old Dave Logan, a courier company team leader from Christchurch. They were waiting at Floating Pavilion in Auckland's Viaduct Harbour yesterday, when Swanson chose Court as her husband.Swanson had moved to New Zealand three years ago to study to become a teacher. She now teaches at a middle school in Auckland.Swanson's parents, who live in a mansion in Oakville and whose mother is a business executive, told the Toronto Star that they are disappointed towards their daughter entering the reality show."Yes, she did tell us she was doing this," her mother Ginny Swanson told the newspaper. "Of course I'm upset...Other than that, I don't really want to talk about it.""Chantelle is nothing short of stunning and I am very, very lucky," Court said.Swanson and Court will honeymoon at the Edgewater Resort in Rarotonga.The competition started just seven weeks ago. Over 100 wannabe brides sign up every year in hopes of becoming the next winner.Swanson is the third person to win the show. The other two winners from the first and second seasons are Zane Nichol and Paula Stockwell, and Steve Veix and Kersha. The first couple were married in 1999 and have two sons. The second were married in 2003 and have one son, and will be having a second.The show is second in the "Strangers and a Wedding" series following Australias Two Strangers and a Wedding.There are similar competitions in the United States and Ireland."It's bloody great," Court added.Leslie Nielsen, a Canadian-born US actor, has died at the age of 84. Nielsen appeared in over 100 films in which he played several different roles ranging from romance and drama to comedy. The cause of death was announced as pneumonia. His death was announced by his agent, John S. Kelly. Nielsen was in Fort Lauderdale being treated for the illness at the time of his death.Born February 11, 1926 in Regina, Saskatchewan, Nielsen started his film career in the 1950s. He starred in the science fiction film Forbidden Planet in 1956 and went to on gain several other roles including the captain in The Poseidon Adventure in 1972. One of his biggest appearances was in the 1980s disaster-parody Airplane!. After that appearance he gained more of a reputation as a comic actor.One of his most notable roles came in 1988 when he played Lt. Frank Drebin in The Naked Gun: From the Files of Police Squad. He also appeared in the The Naked Gun 2 ½: The Smell of Fear in 1991 and The Naked Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult in 1994.Nielsen was the younger brother of Erik Nielsen, who was deputy prime minister of Canada from 1984 to 1986. Erik died in 2008. Leslie Nielsen is survived by his fourth wife Barbaree Earl, and his two daughters from his second marriage, Maura Nielsen Kaplan and Thea Nielsen Disney.Sophie Lavers, a 24-year-old woman from Canberra, has been crowned Miss World Australia in Sydney. She defeated nineteen other finalists to take the prize and will represent Australia at the Miss World event in South Africa.The entrants were judged based on several categories including best talent, healthy body image, sports and fitness and beauty with a purpose. An aspiring actress, she is completing an acting course and hopes to build a career in film and television. She is also a qualified fitness instructor and has worked as a Kings Cross waitress.She has been described in the media as having an "amazing figure" and it has been rumoured that she has used this for modelling work. However, Lavers has said that her body has only been modelled for a good cause: "Some do think that, but I have only ever modelled for charity."She also doubts much will change for her, at least in the near future. "I'll still get up and probably have peanut butter on toast for breakfast but after that I'm not sure what's happening. I guess I won't be going to work tomorrow."She explained that all the girls who entered were dedicated to making a difference. "I just think it's like having little angels out there through the country helping in all different areas whether it's with children, or blind people, or the homeless." Lavers also complained that non-stop smiling for the event has left here mouth sore. "I'm not used to smiling for hours on end."Lavers is now set to head to Johannesburg for the December 12 global competition. "I've got to get a month of outfits ready and get a talent and another speech and everything. Oh goodness."Australian Capital Territory — Thousands of Canberrans took a look at the new Cotter Dam on the Cotter River on open day on Sunday. The public was given limited access to the still-active construction site. Buses took viewers from the car park below to top of the dam wall. They ran every 15 minutes from 8:30 am to 4:00 pm.The dam is to supply fresh water to the city of Canberra. This is to provide water security for the city as droughts become more frequent due to global warming.It is a gravity dam, which holds back the waters through sheer mass. It is about 80 metres (about 260 feet) high. The dam is made from roller-compacted concrete. The concrete was laid dry and compacted with rollers. The concrete was made on site. Only the final touches use conventional concrete. In addition to the main dam, there are two saddle dams filling depressions in the landscape so flood waters flow over the spillway and not out the sides of the lake.The dam on the Cotter River has been under construction for four years. Concrete pouring is expected to take another two weeks. The site is then to be rehabilitated. Thousands of seeds were collected during constructions. These are to be replanted to replace the native flora. Work is expected to be complete by September.The dam replaces an old dam, first built in 1911 but subsequently expanded several times. Now heritage listed, it has been submerged by the waters of the new dam. Some materials were salvaged from the old dam to build the new, and some have been put on display.   The river is named after Garrett Cotter, an Irish-born convict who was transported to Australia and lived in the area in the 1830s and 1840s.United Kingdom blogger and cancer charity fundraiser Stephen Sutton has died today at the age of 19.Sutton, himself a cancer sufferer, gained media attention in the UK for his fundraising activities for Teenage Cancer Trust, which have raised more than £3.3 million (US$5.5 million or €4 million) for the charity. Sutton's original goal was £10,000 (US$16,800 or €12,200) for the charity. His mother said he died in his sleep during the early hours of this morning. Sutton's mother broke the news in a post on 'Stephen's story', the Facebook page launched in January 2013 in which Sutton documented events in his life. "My heart is bursting with pride but breaking with pain for my courageous, selfless, inspirational son", she wrote. "The ongoing support and outpouring of love for Stephen will help greatly at this difficult time, in the same way as it helped Stephen throughout his journey. We all know he will never be forgotten, his spirit will live on, in all that he achieved and shared with so many." Previous posts on the Facebook page spoke of Sutton's deteriorating condition. Yesterday a post on the same Facebook page said: "Unfortunately in the last 24 hours Stephen's condition has deteriorated to where he can no longer communicate through this page himself. Unfortunately the breathlessness which had him re-admitted to hospital is due to the regrowth of tumours which are blocking his airways, and not just due to infection as we had all been hoping." However, the update also said he was "comfortable and stable".Sutton, from the town of Burntwood in the West Midlands of England, was told he was suffering from a metastatic colorectal cancer at the age of 15. On a JustGiving page, Sutton explained why he was raising money for his chosen charity. "Teenage Cancer Trust have helped me hugely throughout my own cancer battle and helped shape who I am and my positive attitude today", he said. "They offer hope and a sense of community to young people with cancer like myself, and directly help face associated pragmatic and emotional issues." His fundraising efforts received widespread media attention, part of which was due to a thumbs up image of himself he posted on the Facebook page in April, which he then believed would be his last. Sutton's campaign received numerous celebrity endorsements, including from Stephen Fry, Russell Brand and Simon Cowell. Comedian Jason Manford also arranged comedy gigs to assist with Sutton's campaign.On Twitter today, the Teenage Cancer Trust said: "We are humbled and hugely grateful for what Stephen achieved and continues to achieve for us." British Prime Minister tweeted: "His spirit, bravery and fundraising for cancer research were all an inspiration." Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Ed Miliband said on the social networking site: "His bravery & determination to live life to the full was an inspiration to us all." Jason Manford paid his own tribute to Sutton. "Stephen Sutton was the most inspiring person I've ever met and touched more lives than he will ever know", he said. "He was an incredibly positive young man and a credit to his family, to Burntwood and to humanity itself. The reason we took to him so passionately was because he was better than us, he did something that none of us could even imagine doing. In his darkest hour he selflessly dedicated his final moments to raising millions of pounds for teenagers with cancer. Some of Stephen's words will stay with me and others forever and they are words to live by — 'life isn't measured in time, it's measured in achievements'."More than five months after setting off from Hawaii, the Polynesian voyaging canoe Hokulea, reached Yokohama, Japan today.The 62-foot (19-meter) doubled-hulled canoe, rigged with two sailing masts, completed a journey of 8,450 miles (13,600 kilometres).Bruce Blankenfield, captain of the 10-member crew, said the journey was meant to celebrate the contributions that Japanese immigrants have made in Hawaii."It is like a reconnection," he was quoted as saying by the Associated Press. "We also hope to build awareness of culture and our history."The Hokulea, or Hōkūleʻa, is patterned after the voyager canoes of ancient Hawaiian islanders. It was the tenth major journey for the boat, which first sailed in 1976 from Hawaii to Tahiti.For part of the boat's voyage, it was accompanied by a sister voyager canoe, the Alingano Maisu, to Satawal, where the Maisu was delivered as a gift to navigator Mau Piailug, who guided the Hōkūleʻa on its first cruise 31 years ago.Along the way across the Pacific, it stopped in the Marshall Islands, Truk, Yap, Palua, Okinawa, Uwajima and Hiroshima before reaching Yokohama.The return voyage for the Hōkūleʻa will be by ship, and it is expected be back in its Honolulu home port by July.With an absence of fanfare, the foodstuffs renamed three years ago to "Freedom fries" and "Freedom toast" have reverted to their previous names of "French fries" and "French toast" respectively, for food service of the United States Capitol and White House.In March 2003, House Representatives Bob Ney of Ohio and Walter B. Jones of North Carolina instituted changing food references of "French" to "Freedom" as a propaganda response to the refusal of France to participate in the U.S.-initiated invasion of Iraq in 2003.Calling great public attention to the name change on March 11 of that 2003, Ney said, "This action today is a small but symbolic effort to show the strong displeasure of many on Capitol Hill with the actions of our so-called ally, France."  At the time Ney chaired the House Committee on House Administration, which controls those cafeterias.Currently, Rep. Vernon J. Ehlers of Michigan chairs the House Administration Committee, and his spokesman has responded to the return of French fries and French toast with: "Officially the committee has no comment on the matter. I really don't see how this is a story."The Cardiff University student union has called for the cancelling of a November lecture by feminist author and academic Germaine Greer, following comments about transgender star Caitlyn Jenner and other trans women that they have labelled 'transmisogynistic'. In an online petition, women's officer Rachael Melhuish asserts that Greer "...has demonstrated time and time again her misogynistic views towards trans women, including continually misgendering trans women and denying the existence of transphobia altogether." The petition adds that while debate should be encouraged in universities, Greer's 'problematic' views of trans people, especially trans women were dangerous. According to The Guardian, in an interview on BBC2's Newsnight Greer said that Jenner had stolen the limelight from other women in the Kardashian family. "It seems to me that what was going on there was that he/she [sic] wanted the limelight that the other... members of the family were enjoying and has conquered it, just like that,” Greer said.According to SameSame.com.au, Greer defended her previous statements denying that trans women were 'real women'. Greer stated that she believes she is being pressured not to talk about trans people because of her belief that 'post-operative' trans women are not women. "I'm not saying that people should not be allowed to go through that [gender reassignment] procedure," Greer said. Greer clarified her position by stating that "It happens to be an opinion, it's not a prohibition."This is not the first instance where Greer's statements about trans people has come under criticism. In 2012, New Zealand Lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans (LGBT) advocacy group Queer Avengers 'glitter bombed' Greer at a book signing in Wellington. According to SameSame.com.au, the group said at the time: "transphobic feminism is so 20th Century. It wasn't okay then and it's not okay now."Daniel Snaith, better known as Caribou, formerly known as Manitoba until a lawsuit by musician Richard "Handsome Dick" Manitoba, recently played New York City's Bowery Ballroom.  Below is Wikinews reporter David Shankbone's conversation with the electronica pioneer.David Shankbone:  How is the tour going?Caribou:  It’s been really good so far.  We started with a few festivals in Europe and then  did a month around the UK, Germany and France.  Over here we just did Canada and this is the start of a big tour for us around the States.  Then Europe for another month.  It’s pretty full on, but I love playing shows.DS:  How do European and American audiences compare to each other?Caribou:  I get asked that all the time and I feel people are expecting some kind of an answer like we are better received in Europe, and I don’t know if people expect that of an electronic musician.DS:  But they are more electronic in Europe than they are here, right?Caribou:  Maybe, but my experience is that people are more similar than different in all the shows, and the reaction is more similar than different.DS:  You reach the same fans in each place?Caribou:  Yeah people are so connected to the interests that they share with other people around the world.  It’s not like one place is completely different from another anymore.DS:  Do you play to larger audiences over there or here?Caribou:  It’s about the same, again.  When we play in London we play about same size venue and size crowd as we do here.DS:  Do you have a favorite venue?Caribou:  A few, actually.  Bowery Ballroom is one of my favorites.  It's always awesome.  The sound is so good here, which is really important.  It sounds good on stage, which is important for getting into the show.  We always have really amazing crowds in this place called Richards on Richards in Vancouver.  This venue in Slovenia we played that is this old commune squat that has lots of gigs and art going over there called the Metalkova.  The best ones are the surprises we'll play in a tiny little town in some venue that is like whatever.DS:  What would be a dream venue to play?Caribou:  Something along the lines of this place we played in the south of France that was this 1920s arts patron villa where Cocteau and all these people lived and worked, and we played just outside there overlooking the French Riviera during this tiny little festival, so those ones are always fun when you just end up at some idyllic spot where they have put together a little festival with great bands.  Those tend to be in Europe, to be honest.  The surprise is part of the enjoyment when you arrive and it's like, this is an insane place to play.DS:  Is there a continent you haven't played where you would like to?Caribou:  We have never been to South America.  Brazil.DS:  Rio or São Paulo?Caribou:  I can't remember, I think people—I'd love to go to Rio, but friends who have played in Brazil have said that shows are amazing everywhere.DS:  How has the Iraq War affected you as an artist?Caribou:  Not too much, directly, to be honest.  The process of recording music, for me, is very insular.  I'm just recording at home and it's very much headspace music.  I'm escaping and I'm not a social commentarian or anything.  It's more about escaping into this world of sound in my head.  I don't think it's affected the business of us touring or anything at all.DS:  Has it affected you as a person?Caribou:  I'm an opponent of the war and I live in the UK where I live under a government that has taken troops to the war or whatever.  It hasn't changed my perspective that much where I feel there have been lots of terrible situations like this in the past and you just have to do whatever is in your power.  I was at the big march in London.  Use your vote and protest in whatever ways you can, but I haven't dropped everything in my life and drastically changed my life.DS:  Do you find you're more inspired by manmade things or things in nature?Caribou:  I think manmade things, but specifically ideas.  I'm not interested in things in the real world as much as I am interested in mental ideas and mental contexts.  That's why I did a PhD in Pure Maths, this elegance of pure ideas and things that are somewhat intangible and about ideas.   Music is very much like that, playing around with ideas and creating this aesthetic of sound.DS:  What sort of ideas inspire you?Caribou:  In mathematics at the PhD level when I was studying was about constructing these elaborate systems and concepts, playing around with them, and fitting them together.  More than ideas is playing around with the ideas, constructing them, and creating something out of them.  For example, in music I will have an idea to put some different sounds together or a melody that meshes with a chord sequence or a sonic mood, or whatever.  I'm not the type of person who takes physical things apart and plays around with them, but I like taking mental ideas apart and playing around with them.  That's what appeals to me about what I've spent my life doing.DS:  Would you consider your music to be mathematical?Caribou:  No, not at all.  It's completely aesthetic almost.  It's about tinkering around with ideas in my head and seeing what kind of sound that actually produces.DS:  Do you have a favorite mathematician or unsolved mathematical problem?Caribou:  I'm not that kind of person.  I liked doing mathematics and learning about it, but I was never into mathematical history beyond what I was working on.DS:  What's a trait you deplore in other people?Caribou:  Apathy or laziness.  I'm the kind of person who is always doing something and get excited about something, and I find it frustrating when people get good ideas that are interesting and don't make the most of that.  Anything I want to do, I'm all about doing it as much as possible.  Meanness, selfishness, obviously.DS:  What’s a trait you deplore in yourself?Caribou:  It’s probably twined with my possessiveness and being too controlling of the things I’m doing, which is probably related to the fact I’m so excited to do things.  That’s the flip side of it, I suppose.  Even more so, my self-centeredness.  I spend all my time making this music, and I’m really proud of it and happy with it, but I kind of feel it is indulging my interests.DS:  You think that might be a negative?Caribou:  I do, because there are better things I could be doing in this world.  I don’t know, I could be more helpful to humanity than just sitting in my room making music, but I enjoy doing it so much that I make the decision to do it.DS:  That's a challenge for any human of whether or not to pursue something you think is a greater good or indulge yourself.  How do you wrestle with that question?Caribou:  I guess like most people I avoid it to a certain degree.  I hopefully strike some kind of compromise, but very heavy on doing what I’m excited about.DS:  Well, we need music in this world and if people are responding to it, you’re giving something to them.Caribou:  Yeah, I hope so, or maybe you are just trying to make me feel good.DS:  Maybe.  [Laughs]  Hillary or Barack?Caribou:  My gut reaction would be Barack, but I’m not really on top of American politics to endorse either.DS:  What do you think of Gordon Brown?Caribou:  He's a funny one to pin down.  I can’t figure him out.  The effect of having him in government is probably going to be pretty close to the effect of having Tony Blair in government, which is a shame.  I’d like to see someone more old Labour and Socialist, I guess.  There's always a hint that he is that, but I don’t think it will be reflected in his policies.DS:  What would be a bigger turn-off for you in bed, someone who was overly flatulent, or someone who spoke in a baby voice?Caribou:  I could get over the baby voice, but the flatulence is a tough one to stomach.DS:  Do you have a favorite curse word?Caribou:  Nothing is springing to mind.DS:  Favorite euphemism for breasts?Caribou:  Nope.DS:  If you had to choose between the destruction of the entire continent of Africa or the entire continent of Asia, which would you choose?Caribou:  Oh, God.  So, population-wise.  It’s tempting…I think that is the only way to choose.  Killing a greater number of people has to be a greater evil.  That’s maybe the bottom line.  I would hate to make that decision.DS:  What are traits you respect in a woman?Caribou:  The same traits I look for in anybody else in the world: kindness, thoughtfulness.DS:  It doesn’t differ in men?Caribou:  No.  Being a nice human being is what I look for in anybody.DS:  What’s your most treasured possession?Caribou:  I have a massive record collection I obsess over, and it would be hard to let that go.DS:  Any favorite films?Caribou:  I haven't been able to see any in the last couple of months, but in the last year I went through a complete Herzog obsession.  I watched all of his films, I read Herzog on Herzog and even read Kinsky’s biography.  Almost all of his films are incredible.DS:  What difficult question in an interview do you anticipate but are never asked?Caribou:  I actually don’t anticipate the difficult ones, which is why when you asked me to destroy one continent I didn’t see that one coming.DS:  What question are you tired of answering?Caribou:  The ones I get asked the most, and I don’t mind answering them, but I don’t relish answering them: I had to change my name from Manitoba to Caribou a couple years back due a law suit.   I don't mind this one anymore, but at first I got asked that in every interview.  And also, the connection between mathematics and music, which you asked me in a form.  That’s a valid question, though, because it’s a point of interest about the way that I work.  The lawsuit is like reciting a history of facts I’d rather forget.DS:  In the last year, where have you drawn most of your influence, and you can’t have been listening to them beyond a year ago.  Caribou:  The big thing for me in the last year that is reflected in this album more than in previous ones is songwriting.  I never wrote songs I just built tracks out of loops.  There were melodies in them, but there wasn’t any structure to the songs.  One artist I didn’t’ listen to before a year ago was Ariel Pink who is a lo-fi indie songwriter and producer.  His production is amazing, but it turns people off because it’s so lo-fi; but also, his song-writing is amazing.Cars drove home the big prize last night, from the 34th Annual Annie Awards. The animation industry's highest honor, ASIFA-Hollywood's  Annies recognise contributions to animation, writing, directing, storyboarding, voice acting, composing, and much more.As mentioned, Pixar took home the big prize last night, after facing stiff competition from four other Happy Feet, Monster House, Open Season, and Over the Hedge.But the biggest winner of the night didn't get a "Best Animated Feature" nod at all. Flushed Away won five feature animation categories including Animated Effects (Scott Cegielski), Character Animation (Gabe Hordos), Production Design (Pierre-Olivier Vincent), Voice Acting (Sir Ian McKellan  as Toad), Writing (Dick Clement, Ian La Frenais, Chris Lloyd, Joe Keenan, and Will Davies).Over The Hedge won awards for Directing (Tim Johnson and Karey Kirkpatrick), Storyboarding (Gary Graham), and Character Design (Nicolas Marlet).Of little surprise, Randy Newman won an Annie for Cars in the "Music in an Animated Feature Production" category. Newman has won many Oscars for his movie music, and has a nomination this year for the song "Our Town". Newman didn't attend the Annies, instead picking up a Grammy for "Best Song Written For Motion Picture, Television Or Other Visual Media".DisneyToon Studios' Bambi II won "Best Home Entertainment Production", while "Best Animated Short Subject" went to Blue Sky Studios' No Time For Nuts, which is based on Ice Age."Best Animated Video Game" went to Flushed Away The Game, while a United Airlines ad named "Dragon" won a "Best Animated Television Commercial" Annie for DUCK Studios.The cast for BBC One show Strictly Come Dancing has been announced from the BBC.Contestants will include a huge number of actors and actresses, such as Laila Rouass and Zoe Lucker from ITV1 drama Footballers' Wives, Ricky Whittle from Channel 4 drama Hollyoaks, former Eastenders co-stars Natalie Cassidy and Ricky Groves, Craig Kelly from ITV1 soap opera Coronation Street, and Ali Bastian from crime drama The Bill from the same channel.Other television personalities that will be appearing on the show include BBC Breakfast presenter Chris Hollins and former Crimewatch police officer Rav Wilding.Also included in the cast, which will total 16, will be jockey Richard Dunwoody, boxer Joe Calzaghe, ex-cricketer Phil Tufnell, Jo Wood, who split from Rolling Stone Ronnie Wood, and former tennis star Martina Hingis.Fern Britton will not be appearing on the show, despite previous talks with producers.  Brendan Cole is going to be teamed up with Jo Wood.The four stars of Bratz appeared Thursday in Toronto on the television series MuchOnDemand, to promote their new film.While a great deal of computer animated, direct-to-DVD Bratz films have been made, as has a relatively successful television series, Bratz: The Movie is the first time the characters have appeared in live action.The film centres around four "BFF"s, best friends forever, Yasmin (Nathalia Ramos), Jade (Janel Parrish), Sasha (Logan Browning) and Cloe (Skyler Shaye). Each has a distinct personality, talents, and fashion sense, which each friend supported. But entering high school, they suddenly face being lumped into social cliques, enforced by senior Meredith Baxter Dimly. Torn apart, they eventual decide to find peer pressure head-on, as "the Bratz".Director Sean McNamara commented in press materials, "The producers, writers and I hung out and talked about the fact that we had all lost friendships during high school, not because you want to but you start meeting new people and start hanging out with people that are into the same things as you.""This theme of cliques still happens even when you grow up, it's in the business world — hey they are everywhere," McNamara continued. "I think that's what I'm trying to say with this movie is that you don't have to be part of a clique exclusively. You can have friends all over the place and still be with kids that are into what you’re into... be with your jock friends, your science friends, whomever."Actress Logan Browning comments, "Friendships are so important because you can think that you can go to school and be by yourself and be the coolest girl but without true friends, you’re going to be stuck in your life."The movie is produced by Avi Arad, a producer of the Spider-Man and X-Men trilogies, The Hulk, The Fantastic Four, The Punisher, and Ghost Rider.Arad feels that "If we can unite kids without taking away their individuality, that's fantastic."MuchOnDemand is a long-running program MuchMusic, Canada's primary music channel. The program airs every weekday at 5 pm ET, as an hour-long per broadcast viewer interactive television program.View all of the Creative Commons-licensed photos by Robin Wong at Wikimedia Commons' gallery.The One: Making a Music Star is a new reality show hosted by CBC personality George Stroumboulopoulos.The show airs on ABC and on CBC.It premiered yesterday and has sparked some controversy over the simulcast, which according to ABC's schedule means displacing CBC's The National for a U.S. program.Over the past few weeks, CBC's decision to simulcast The One has drawn criticism from a number of individuals and groups, including Friends of Canadian Broadcasting, NDP MP and federal heritage critic Charlie Angus, and a retired CBC journalist Knowlton Nash.Since the show airs on Tuesday night, the episodes will bump The National to an earlier slot in Atlantic Canada and a later one in Ontario and Québec, which means it will air at 11:00 PM instead of 10:00 PM in Ontario and in Quebec. The Wednesday night editions will also bump The National to an earlier slot in Ontario and Quebec.A Canadian version of the series will launch in the fall in another time slot, but a condition of the CBC's franchise deal for this production was to simulcast the ABC production. This also represents the first time in over a decade that the CBC has scheduled an American-produced series in prime time.The CBC's will continue to show The National at different times on the main broadcast network and on CBC Newsworld. "We get discouraged that people don't appreciate the fact that [The National] is on Newsworld. . . . People watch their news on the Internet, on cable, on broadcast and we're giving it to them in all different kinds of ways. We're very proud of The National. I just hope that gets across." , said Kirstine Layfield, CBC's executive director of network programming.CBS program The Early Show ran a segment Monday about the Tigger incident at Florida theme park Walt Disney World, which a company blog later criticized.CBS runs a regularly updated feed on its website, entitled "The Public Eye". It was created by the television station to "bring transparency to the editorial operations" of that department. It went one step further, recently, when criticising their program's actions.The post knocked co-anchor Hannah Strom, who "did not challenge the family's characterization of the incident." Writer Brian Montopoli commented that "we'd like to think that we would have brought somewhat more skepticism to the table".On Sunday, video broke internationally of Disney employee Michael J. Fedelem as Tigger, hitting teen Jerry Monaco Jr. in the head. The New Hampshire tourist and his father both claim the hit was unprovoked. They claimed Jerry Jr. needed medical attention and prescription medicine that night."Nuh, no provokin' at all, ya know, it was all out of the blue." Junior told FOX News the day before.The CBS interview was even featured in that morning's post-show email from CBS The Early Show.The comments were made by Montopoli, associate producer of this section.The new CBS Corporation began trading on the New York Stock Exchange once again on January 3 after officially finishing its split with Viacom two days earlier. The split had been in the works since around March 2005 when Viacom announced it was breaking into two publicly traded companies due to stock price stagnation. In June 2005, Viacom's board approved the split and saying the CBS Corporation name would be revived for one of those companies. One of these units would receive most of Viacom's broadcasting and mass-media portion of subsidiaries (CBS, UPN, Infinity Broadcasting, now CBS Radio) along with Viacom Outdoor (now CBS Outdoor), Showtime Networks, and Paramount's television studio and a few other operations and announced long-time excutive Leslie Moonves would head that new company.The split is filled with twists and turns. Viacom was founded in 1971 as CBS' television syndication division and was spun off in 1973. Westinghouse Electric Corporation bought CBS and changed its name to CBS Corporation. In a ironic twist, Viacom accquired their parent company in 1999 and CBS' stock symbol was de-listed as it became a division of Viacom. Ironically, the new CBS Corporation is actually the original Viacom. A new Viacom was founded and spun off containing MTV Networks (which contains CMT and Spike TV, two cable networks originally owned by CBS) along with BET, Paramount's film studio and home entertainment divisions, online virtual pet game Neopets, and a music publisher. It also partially owns Sega of America along with the Sonic the Hedgehog trademarks and is currently in the process of acquiring DreamWorks.CBS unveiled its logo, the iconic CBS eye, and launched the corporation's official wesbite, cbscorporation.comCBS Radio, a subsidiary of CBS, fired Don Imus Thursday amidst controversy over comments made on the air last week about the Rutgers University women's basketball team.Last week Imus called the team "nappy-headed hos" during one of his radio show broadcasts.The CBS decision came one day after NBC News pulled the plug on the Imus Show's simulcast on MSNBC as a result of the remarks.  A handful of advertisers withdrew their support of the Imus Show prior to both network's decisions.    "There has been much discussion of the effect language like this has on our young people, particularly young women of color trying to make their way in this society. That consideration has weighed most heavily on our minds as we made our decision," said Leslie Moonves, the executive producer for CBS.Imus does not hold the firing against CBS saying "I understand the pressure they were under. I said it. I wouldn't be here if I didn't say it."After Hurricane Katrina passed across the United States, various artists and media stars have leapt at a call to action.John Travolta and wife Kelly Preston flew his private plane to deliver a load of supplies and tetanus vaccine to Baton Rouge and New Orleans.  Part of a Scientology project which has been using their non-massage "assists", in an interview Preston mentioned that "auditing" had also been performed on victims.Kevin Smith is holding an online auction on his Web site.Sean Penn actually went to Louisiana. After loading down a small boat with his entourage, it was discovered one of them had neglected to seal a hole in the bottom. Penn was wearing a white vest rather than a life vest while bailing. After the motor wouldn't start, the crew paddled down a flooded New Orleans street. Bystanders jeered at whether any victims could fit aboard the crowded craft. No report on rescue stunts. Local authorities had previously been criticized for not allowing volunteer boaters in to help.Morgan Freeman, whose home fared well, is organizing an online auction of celebrity items at charityfolks.com, to benefit the American Red Cross Disaster Relief Fund.Curt Schilling opened his home to a family of nine driven out of their New Orleans home.  The Schilling family will provide housing for the Fields for a year while their home in New Orleans is rebuilt and repaired.Some celebrities "graced" disaster zones with their presence in the days following Katrina.Singer Macy Gray and television personality Phil McGraw visited Houston's Astrodome.Celebrities visiting New Orleans include Michael Moore (opposite side of lake), singer Harry Connick, Jr., CNN's Anderson Cooper, actor Jamie Foxx, singer Faith Hill, actor Matthew McConaughey, singer Lisa Marie Presley, comedian Chris Rock, and The Oprah Winfrey Show contributor Lisa Ling and interior decorator Nate Berkus.Oprah Winfrey visited New Orleans, Houston, and Mississippi.File:KylieShowgirl.jpgIn an annual tradition, Queen Elizabeth II gave out honours in the 2008 U.K. New Year Honours list today. Chat show host Michael Parkinson is to be knighted, Australian singer Kylie Minogue was made a member of the Order of the British Empire (for services to music), and actor Ian McKellen (who played Gandalf in the Lord of the Rings trilogy) joined the exclusive Order of the Companions of Honour, which is limited to only 65 members.Knighthood was awarded to professor Ian Wilmut, who led the team that cloned Dolly the sheep. The list also includes honours for those involved in flood rescue work during 2007 such as Salvation Army Captain Tracey Palmer (who was made a Member of the British Empire, MBE) and Leslie Adams from York. Tom Kelly, who was an official spokesperson for Tony Blair, entered the Order of the Bath.599 of the 972 awards this year went to ordinary members of the public, who mostly received MBE's.The honours are awarded by the Queen after advice from the Prime Minister, Gordon Brown. It is published in the London Gazette, an official publication of the monarchy.Other recipients of honours include:Jacqueline Wilson, Children's authourBrian Ashton, England Rugby coachJasper Conran, DesignerKaren Millen, DesignerSteve Furber, Industrial designerDes Lynam, TV Sports presenterGeorge Alagiah, JournalistJulie Walters, ActressRichard Griffiths, ActorLeslie PhillipsNicholas Kenyon, BBC proms organiserBrendan Foster, AthleteJohn Higgins, Snooker championAndy TrotterNuala O'LoanAs in past years the honours list has included honours for those involved in charity work,education and social activisim, such as :Marjorie Wallace,Michele ElliottAlasdair Macdonald, HeadmasterProfessor Sir Timothy O'Shea, Vice Chancellor of Edinburgh university.Berlin zoo's celebrity  polar bear named Knut died suddenly in his compound at the Berlin Zoo yesterday. No immediate cause of death was given. Knut has been featured on magazine covers and merchandise, and doubled the attendance at the zoo, according to Zoo officials. One of the bear keepers at the zoo, Heiner Kloes, said: "It was a completely normal day. He was with the female bears before, who had just been shut away. Then Knut strolled around the enclosure, went into the water, had a short spasm and died."Knut was four years old. In the wild polar bears have a life expectancy of between 15 and 20 years, while in captivity they can live longer. An autopsy is expected to be performed.  Knut was born in captivity and was raised by humans after his mother rejected him. He first drew attention when caregiver, Thomas Dörflein, temporarily lived at  the zoo to be able to give the cub his bottle every two hours. Knut made daily public appearances in which his caregiver cuddled and played with the cub to the pleasure of thousands of visitors. Around the world fan clubs formed, including in the United States, Japan, and Germany. Fans were interested in all aspects of his life, including his battle with gaining weight and plans to relocate to a different zoo.Famed photographer Annie Leibovitz shot a 2007 Vanity Fair cover featuring Knut with actor Leonardo DiCaprio. Knut was a money maker for the Berlin Zoo  through the sales of various merchandise including photos, key chains, food items, and stuffed likenesses.Berlin Mayor Klaus Wowereit called the death of Knut "awful".The British celebrity chef John Burton Race has been charged with the offence of drink-driving.The chef, who is famous for starring in such programmes as French Leave and Return of the Chef, was pulled over by police on the A379 road in the county of Devon, England. The location was near to his restaurant entitled, "The New Angel". It was a routine check that took place in the early hours of Friday morning. After a breathalyser test, the chef was arrested for drink-driving. Another offence that he is being charged with is "resisting or obstructing a constable", which means to resist arrest.A Devon and Cornwall Constabulary spokeswoman released a statement to Sky News which said: "John Burton Race, 52, was arrested on October 30 at about 1am. He has been charged with driving or attempting to drive with excess alcohol and resisting or obstructing a constable in the execution of their duty."John has now been released on an unconditional bail. He is expected to appear before magistrates in a courtroom in Newton Abbot on November 17, 2009.Plastic surgeon to the stars Dr. Frank Ryan has died in a car accident at age 50.  It is reported that the Jeep Ryan was driving crashed over the side of the Pacific Coast Highway and landed on rocks. Lifeguards were first on the scene and unsuccessfully tried to rescue Ryan.  It is thought that no other vehicle was involved in the incident. Dr. Ryan, a celebrity in his own right, performed plastic surgery on several stars including Janice Dickinson, Gene Simmons, Shauna Sand and Adrianne Curry. He appeared on several television shows and became one of the first people to perform plastic surgery on television in 1995. A representative for Janice Dickinson released a statement about the death of Ryan. She said "Janice is deeply, deeply anguished!  She is stunned and wants the world to know what a genius Dr. Ryan was."Ryan was traveling with his pet dog at the time of the crash; the dog was found seriously injured in the ocean and was transported to a local veterinarian. Dr. Ryan was pronounced dead at the scene.Thailand's National Film Archive in Salaya, Nakhon Pathom unveiled a new museum and cinema on Thursday night for the 100th anniversary celebration of the birth of Rattana Pestjoni, a filmmaker who is considered the "father of contemporary Thai cinema".With Pestonji's family, movie stars, filmmakers, government officials and fans on hand, the National Film Archive's museum was opened for tours, and the facility's 120-seat cinema hosted the screening of a documentary film, Signature: The Life and Work of R.D. Pestonji.Pestonji was born in Bangkok on May 22, 1908, to a Parsi-Indian (ethnic Persian) family. For his first short film, Tang, in 1937, he received an award from Alfred Hitchcock at a film festival in Scotland. Pestonji directed his first feature film, Dear Dolly, in 1951. He was known for his skills as a cinematographer, and he shot the first Thai feature film to be submitted to an overseas film festival. Pestonji also pushed for innovations in the Thai film industry, such as using 35mm film, and raising the level of cinematography as an artistic element of the films, said film historian Dome Sukwong, director of the National Film Archive.The now-lost Santi-Weena was submitted to the Asia-Pacific Film Festival in 1954 in Tokyo. Pestonji served as cinematographer on it as well as Forever Yours, in 1955. He then directed four features, Country Hotel in 1957, Dark Heaven in 1958, Black Silk in 1961, and Sugar Is Not Sweet in 1964. His films were never box-office successes, which led to Pestonji retiring from feature-film work to make television commercials, Sukwong said.Pestonji died of a heart attack on August 17, 1970 at the Montien Hotel Bangkok, while giving a speech to government officials and film industry executives about the prevalence of Hollywood films in Thailand's cinemas.Batting first, after losing the toss, the Chamber of Commerce scored slowly in the first few overs but scored around 10 an over for the rest of the match. They were bowled out for 162 off 18.3 overs.In reply, Buderim batted with some enthusiasm and were on target to win the game within the 20 overs but were bowled out for 114 in 15.2 overs.Maroochy Mayor Joe Natoli provided some commentary for part of the match. He noted, with a hint of sarcasm that the Mayors XI "failed to qualify" for the match. The lack of sledging was noted by other commentators.The match was included in an overall Australia Day celebration at Buderim Mountain State School which included Sunshine Coast Idol, kids' rides, barbecues and food stalls.Edinburgh, Scotland — Sunday saw Chantel McGregor, voted Best Blues Guitarist at the British Blues Awards, headlining in The Caves.  Wikinewsie Brian McNeil took along his camera to capture this remarkable  young Yorkshire musician playing live. The previous evening saw her playing in Glasgow, with the current tour hitting Morecambe yesterday, Bristol's The Tunnels on Wednesday, and Derby on Thursday. Supporting Chantel were local, self-styled "Rootsy/Country/Soul" three-piece The Rising Souls. Despite The Caves — which local lore claims is haunted — being buried in the city's Cowgate, their percussionist was playing a Cajón; often-seen in the city as musicians try to avoid running foul of the City of Edinburgh Council's licensing board, and risking venues being closed down over as-little as a single noise complaint.Chantelle Houghton has won the British reality TV show Celebrity Big Brother. Michael Barrymore came in second place. Houghton, 22, was the only non-celebrity on the show and was given a secret mission for four days by Big Brother to convince the other housemates she was a member of the fictional band "Kandy Floss".The television show, aired on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom is a spin off of the popular series shown around the world. This series of the show started on 5 January 2006 and lasted for 23 days. There were 11 housemates, six of whom were evicted on the 27 January 2006. Unknown to either the audience nor the winner until her exit interview, Houghton won £25,000 for winning the show and not being a Celebrity. Also evicted on the 27th were: Chantelle Houghton (non-celebrity promotions girl and Paris Hilton look-a-like) - WinnerMichael Barrymore (television broadcaster and comedian) - Runner Up: 2nd PlaceMaggot (member of Goldie Lookin' Chain) - Runner Up: 3rd PlaceSamuel Preston (lead singer of The Ordinary Boys) - Runner Up: 4th PlacePete Burns (former Dead or Alive singer) - Runner Up: 5th PlaceTraci Bingham (actress from Baywatch and model) - Runner Up: 6th PlaceAn expedition guide working for the BBC has died after he was charged by an elephant in Tanzania on Friday. Anton Turner was helping with the filming of Serious Explorers for CBBC, a children’s branch of the BBC, when the incident happened. Three children were with the group when the incident happened but were unharmed. Despite the help of a doctor travelling with the group, Turner died shortly after the attack. A spokeswoman for the BBC released a statement saying that "we would like to extend our deepest sympathy to Anton's family and friends. Anton was an extremely experienced expedition safari and wildlife ranger and former Army officer who had worked with the BBC in the past."She added that an investigation had already begun into the death of Mr. Turner. "As is usual with a serious accident, an immediate and thorough BBC investigation into the circumstances of this incident has already begun."A Foreign Aid spokeswoman confirmed the death of a British national in Tanzania. She added that his next of kin have been made aware.Local streets were closed to cars, and vendors and artists set up along the curbs. Church Street was blocked off and dedicated to chalk drawings, which were drawn by professional artists and amateurs alike. One of the largest drawings was a reproduction of Hokusai's "In The Hollow of a Wave off the Coast at Kanagawa," known colloquially as "The Wave."The Alice Hoffman Breast Cancer Center and Locks of Love held a "charity shave," in which members of the public were encouraged to donate to the charity. Upon donating they would have their heads shaved, or at least 10" of their hair trimmed "in support of those who lose their hair to chemotherapy."Several bands played in succession on a stage set up in front of the offices of Dewey, Cheetham, and Howe. Performers included Toussaint and the China Band, as well as The Walkmen.Self-described "voice collector" Halsey Burgund brought his portable recording studio and successfully recorded samples from many passersby. At one point, his small box was packed with five youths who wanted to record a collaborative performance. Not everyone was interested in Burgund's box, though. "I don't want to give my name and some crap out," said one youth, pictured at right, who preferred not to give his name.Convicted cult leader and murderer Charles Manson has released his album One Mind under a free content license. The album was already released on April 7, 2005, but now it has become available under the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Share-Alike 2.0 License. This means that anyone can remix and share the album for non-commercial purposes, as long as they give proper credit and use the same license.The website Family Jams (Manson’s record label), which offers hard-copies of the CD, says that "ONE MIND is pure Charlie, no additions, no corrections, no added opinions, filters or editing... consisting of songs, trance-poetry, conversations, raps, ramblings, musings and more." The cover-art is a painting by Manson, liner notes include excerpts from his letters, and, as the sites mentions, song titles and interludes are by friends or editors.The disc has 16 tracks, totalling almost 76 minutes of Manson's work. The CD can be bought on the Family Jams site for $15.00 in the U.S. and Canada, and for $17.50 in other countries. Because of the new license, the tracks can be legally downloaded, and samples can be used for derived works.Manson was part of the Los Angeles music scene before his conviction as leader of the Manson Family commune. He was close to Beach Boy Dennis Wilson —Manson wrote the song 'Never Learn Not to Love' for the Beach Boys.In 1970, Manson released the album Lie: The Love & Terror Cult to finance his trial. The Manson Family also released The Family Jams, with songs written by Manson. Manson has released several albums since.Groups such as Nine Inch Nails have previously released some of their work under a free license.In a related story, Lindsay Lohan will play Nancy Pitman in an upcoming movie called Manson Girls. Lohan has previously revealed that she was fascinated by Manson during her "dark period" before she sought help for drug and alcohol addiction in 2007: "Yeah, I have a dark side. I watched all those videos on Charles Manson for a while." Lohan also stars in the movie Chapter 27 about John Lennon's assassination.The child of singer Cher and the late Sonny Bono, Chaz Bono (born Chastity), will undergo a sex change operation, according to a spokesperson. "Chaz, after many years of consideration, has made the courageous decision to honor his true identity. [He hopes] that his choice to transition will open the hearts and minds of the public regarding this issue, just as his 'coming out' did nearly 20 years ago," said Howard Bragman, Bono's publicist.Bono, a journalist, gay rights activist, singer, actor and author, was 18 when she came out to his parents as a lesbian, and was outed publicly two years later by a tabloid magazine. She wrote a memoir titled Family Outing that her mother Cher was not happy about. She says Cher banned her from their apartment for some time after coming out. Eventually Cher reconciled the issue within herself and the two repaired their relationship. Bono, 40, was most recently seen on television in 2006 on the reality show Celebrity Fit Club to lose weight and to give up smoking.According to Bragman, Chaz began the transition from female to male in early 2009. LGBT groups were quick to support Bono's transition, with GLAAD announcing in a press release, "Chaz Bono's decision to live his life authentically represents an important step forward, both for him personally and for all who are committed to advancing discussions about fairness and equality for transgender people".Joseph Cerniglia, a chef who had appeared on Gordon Ramsay's television show Kitchen Nightmares, has commited suicide. Cerniglia was the owner of Italian restaurant Campania. He jumped off a bridge into the Hudson river on the New York–New Jersey border. At the time of filming in 2007, Cerniglia owed suppliers $80,000.Officials reported that 39-year-old Cerniglia had jumped off of the George Washington Bridge into the Hudson. His death has officially been ruled as suicide. His body was retrieved from the river after reports of a man jumping off of the bridge.Ramsay released a statement to the Press Association saying "I was fortunate to spend time with Joe during the first season of Kitchen Nightmares. Joe was a brilliant chef, and our thoughts go out to his family, friends and staff."Cerniglia told Ramsay about his personal debt when he came to the restaurant in 2007. He said "I am financially in trouble. The debt of the restaurant alone is overwhelming. My personal debt — wife, kids, mortgage — that's a lot of debt".Chelsea Clinton, the daughter of Bill Clinton, U.S. President from 1993 to 2001, has announced that she is engaged to her long-term boyfriend. The 29-year-old announced her engagement to Marc Mezvinsky to friends via e-mail.  Mezvinsky  is the son of Ed and Marjorie Mezvinsky who both served in the United States Congress. Last summer false rumours circulated that the couple had already secretly married. Ms. Clinton's mother, Hillary Clinton, was forced to deny those rumors. Ms. Clinton is currently attending Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health.Chelsea Clinton, the only daughter of former US president William Jefferson "Bill" Clinton and current US Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, wed long-time boyfriend and investment banker Marc Mezvinsky on Saturday evening. The ceremony occurred in Rhinebeck, New York amidst a flurry of secrecy and speculation surrounding the event.Not much was known about the wedding, and those involved in the event did not say anything to the media. An estimated 500 guests were at the ceremony, which took place at Astor Courts, a large Beaux Arts estate built for John Jacob Astor IV over 100 years ago. The secluded mansion is situated on 50 acres (20.2 hectares) of land in the small town of Rhinebeck. A no-fly zone was established over the estate.The guest list was the subject of much speculation, but notable figures Oprah Winfrey, Steven Spielberg, and John Major reportedly did not attend the festivities. Madeleine Albright, Steve Bing, Warren Buffet, and Kobe Bryant were rumored to have been seen at the wedding.The marriage ceremony was led by Rabbi James Ponet and the Reverend William Shillady. Mezvinsky, who is Jewish, wore a tallit (prayer shawl) and a yarmulke. Clinton is a Methodist. A Clinton family friend read the poem "The Life That I Have", by Leo Marks. Chelsea Clinton wore a strapless dress designed by Vera Wang. She had been spotted by Women's Wear Daily at Wang's New York showroom earlier last week, and Wang was reportedly seen in Rhinebeck as well.The town of Rhinebeck was the subject of much public interest on Saturday. Photographers, journalists, and ordinary citizens lined the streets to get a peek at the celebrities attending the wedding. Many stores had signs saying something similar to "Congratulations Marc & Chelsea." Residents temporarily displaced by the wedding were even given bottles of wine for the inconvenience.30-year-old Chelsea Clinton and 32-year-old Marc Mezvinsky first met in Washington, D.C. while teenagers, and both later attended Stanford University. Now living in New York, Mezvinsky works at G3 Capital as an investment banker, while Clinton recently earned her master's degree in public health at Columbia University. Mezvinsky is the son of the now-divorced Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky and Ed Mezvinsky, friends of the Clinton family.Although thought to cost several million dollars, a Clinton family friend claimed that the event would carry a price tag of less than US$1 million.Russian chess grandmaster, Vladimir Kramnik lost the final match of his man versus machine match against the Deep Fritz chess program.  The six game match in Bonn, Germany had a final result of 4-2 for the German-developed chess program which runs on readily available computer hardware.The first match which concluded on November 25 was a draw, Kramnik lost the second game to the computer with some indications that he overlooked a mate in one win.  Third through fifth matches were all draws.Kramnik, whilst the current world chess champion, is actually ranked third in the world.  A contributory factor in this is his health problems.  The world champion suffers from a rare form of arthritis which makes sitting playing in tournaments extremely painful for him.Anatoly Karpov and Gary Kasparov, two former chess world champions, are playing a twelve-game match against each other in Valencia, Spain, to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the first world championship match between the two.As of Wednesday, two of the twelve games had been completed. Kasparov had won both games, which were held at a "rapid" time control, 25 minutes per player per game, with three seconds added after each move."I didn't know whether my instincts would work," said Kasparov after winning the first two games.Kasparov, 46, is said to have an advantage over Karpov, 58, due to his younger age. Kasparov, however, said, "I wouldn't make any predictions yet [on the outcome of the match]. Karpov was and still is a great opponent. I have to find out whether I will be able to keep my calm."The games are estimated to have been watched by up to ten million chess fans on the internet. The website hosting the games temporarily had to shut down due to high traffic.In 1984, Karpov and Kasparov played for the world championship title in what would become an iconic match. Karpov was defending his title against the challenger, Kasparov. The match was suspended after five months and 48 games, as neither player was able to gain enough of a lead to determine a clear winner.File:Bobby Fischer cropped.jpgDubbed as one of the world's greatest chess players of all-time, Bobby Fischer has died at the age of 64 from kidney failure, according to his spokesman Gardar Sverrisson. He died in Iceland at a hospital in Reykjavík.Fischer is most known for beating his opponent Boris Spassky from the then Soviet Union in 1972, to become the first and so far only American world champion chess player. He became a Grandmaster in August of 1958 at the young age of 15.Fischer was also a fugitive of the U.S. after violating the terms of United Nations sanctions by going to an island of the former country of Yugoslavia in 1992 to play Spassky in a rematch, and won. He was detained in Japan for nine months through 2004 and 2005, accused of trying to leave the country on a revoked U.S. passport. After his detainment he was granted Icelandic citizenship and moved to the country in 2005, instead of being deported to the U.S. by the Japanese government."[Fischer was] the pioneer, some would say the founder, of professional chess. [His death is] very sad news," said Garry Kasparov, a former world champion of chess.Fisher was born on March 9, 1943 in Chicago, Illinois.Cordon-bleu chef Homaru Cantu has announced a technique which allows him to create dishes made of edible, inkjet printed paper. Cantu, a head chef at the Moto restaurant in Chicago, has modified an ink-jet printer with the help of computer specialists from local firm Deep Labs and loaded it with cartridges containing concoctions of fruit and vegetables. Using this modified printer Cantu then prints onto edible sheets of soybean and potato starch tasty images downloaded from the web.“You can make an ink-jet printer do just about anything,” says Cantu. Once the items have been printed they are dipped into a powder made of soy sauce, sugar and vegetables before then being further processed by frying, freezing, or baking them.Cantu has applied the technique to the printing of menus so that diners can further flavor their soups by ripping up the menu and adding it to the dish.He hopes that his idea may find its way into popular media. “Just imagine going through a magazine and looking at an ad for pizza. You wonder what it tastes like, so you rip a page out and eat it,” says the chef who is working at perfecting the flavors and has applied for a patent on the technique.Cantu also has plans for further culinary innovations. He plans to cook steak using a handheld laser that will sear the inside of the steak well done whilst leaving the outside medium rare. He also plans to use the laser to produce bread baked from the inside out thus producing a crust on the inside.Chicago's Metra is currently considering the possibility of selling the naming rights to its train stations, rail lines, and even bridges to generate more revenue. The regional rail system for Chicago and its surrounding suburbs has been experiencing revenue shortfalls, along with other public transportation agencies such as the Chicago Transit Authority and Pace. They all rely on sales taxes and fares to fund their services, but the recent recession has reduced sales tax revenues, and unemployment has caused ridership to fall. Compared to 86.8 million trips in 2008, Metra reported that only 82.3 million trips were provided in 2009. As spokeswoman Judy Pardonnet said, "We're looking at any opportunity to increase non-fare revenue."A law approved by former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich in 2008 granted free rides to all seniors regardless of income, adding to the decreasing fare revenues as well. State lawmakers are trying to restrict the free rides to low-income seniors; Metra has not yet commented on the issue, however. New designs put on the agency's website last September has attracted more traffic, and Metra is considering selling advertising space online. In addition, advertising space could be sold on the outside of train cars as well. As for the naming rights to stations and routes, Metra plans to hire a consultant that would figure out the details of such a proposal. Spokesperson Meg Reihle did not know how much money Metra could gain from the sale or which organizations would be interested in buying. According to Ms. Reihle, public transit agencies in other cities have sold naming rights as well, such as the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority in Cleveland and Long Island Rail Road in Long Island. TECO Energy sponsors a rail line in Tampa's Hillsborough Area Regional Transit for US$1 million over ten years. Throughout its 26-year history, Metra has named several of its locomotives and renamed two stations: Ogilvie Transportation Center, which was previously named North Western Station, and Millennium Terminal, which was previously called Randolph Street. No transactions were made in renaming those two stations, however. There is also a  Station named after the candy maker Mars, but that station was named before Metra took it over, and the company doesn't pay Metra for any naming rights. Execuive Director Phil Pagano sees the proposal as a way for businesses to advertise themselves. "I think the business community recognizes that transit is positive for their advertising benefit," said Mr. Pagano at a board meeting. In addition to businesses, hospitals located near the train stations could purchase naming rights as well. However, Mr. Pagano has also stated that "the agency would be selective about the type of businesses it partners with."Metra has said that it will be sensitive to the wishes of the communities near the stops, and town names will not be removed from station names. Rather, both the municipality and the sponsoring organization would share the naming rights, such as in renaming Naperville Station to "Naperville Boeing Station". "I'm not sure whether [the old name] is first or second, but definitely it's going to have to be there," said Mr. Pagano.In an Archives of Pediatrics & Adolescent Medicine report, economist Frederick J. Zimmerman Ph.D. and colleagues at the University of Washington, in Seattle, found there is a statistically significant relationship between bullying behavior by adolescents and the amount of TV they watched. While previous studies linking the phenomenon have been done before, this study used data from a US national longitudinal survey involving 1,266 four-year-olds, to provide what authors describe as "empirical support to theories that suggest that bullying might arise out of cognitive deficits as well as emotional ones," according to NewsWise.Of mothers who reported their children displaying bullying behavior, the study found that those watching 3.5 hours of TV a day were 25% more likely to bully, while those watching 8 hours or more were 200% more likely. The report based its findings on statistics of TV watching by children at age 4, and then compared that history to reports by mothers of their child's behavior between the ages of 6 to 11.“The magnitude of the risk associated with television… is clinically significant,” the report's authors wrote. Bullying behavior by school children is thought by some to be a health problem.The study also assessed parental factors that reduced the negative impact of watching television. These included taking children on outings and activities, reading to them, and regularly exposing them to new ideas. Results suggest that children receiving cognitive support were a third less likely to become bullies.Another parental factor looked at was providing emotional support. Simple things like eating together and talking about topics important to children were found to have an effect.The children's show 'Tomorrow's pioneers' on Al-Aqsa TV, which is controlled by Hamas, is hosted by a character resembling Mickey Mouse, who tells young viewers to drink milk, study hard and fight for Islamic world leadership and commit violence against Israel and the United States.The images date from April but have made the press earlier this week. Meanwhile the show was reported to have been put on hold, pending a "full revision", according to the Palestinian Minister of Information Mustafa Barghouti. But a representative from Al Aqsa TV called this a mistake, so the show might still be aired on Friday.At the beginning of the video Farfur (Butterfly), an actor in a mouse suit, calls for Islamic world leadership, starting in Palestine. He pleads for the restoration of the glory of Palestine, the liberation of Jerusalem, Iraq, and "the Muslim countries, invaded by murderers." "We will resist and protect against the Zionist occupation," co-host Saraa predicts. Saraa is only a young girl. A report by Fox News claims that children have been used before for Palestinian propaganda.The children's program is filmed in a studio with fuzzy dice and colourful letters and numbers on the wall. In this setting the shows hosts proclaim things like: "We will win, Bush. We will win, Sharon. Ah, Sharon is dead..."Another fragment shows how an 11-year-old girl calls the show and sings "Rafah sings 'oh oh', its answer is an AK47," which is a Kalashnikov assault rifle. The fake Mickey Mouse gestures holding a firearm.Meanwhile the footage has been watched over 100,000 times on YouTube. The images were edited by the Israeli organisation Palestinian Media Watch, which studies and brings to attention the role of the Palestinian authority on the media and schoolbooks. The Middle East Media Research Institute was also involved in bringing the show under the attention.Walt Disney's only living daughter, Diane Disney Miller, has already reacted to the news. She was shocked by the show, and called it "pure evil".According to the Palestinian Minister of Information Mustafa Barghouti (who is independent from both Hamas and Fatah), the show is an illustration of the struggle of the Palestinian people against the Israeli occupation. "It's a situation of imprisonment for years. And that oppression, this apartheid system, of course drives people crazy and creates certain reactions as the one you have seen," Barghouti explained. He also called the shows content "very unfortunate," and a "mistaken approach" to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.Chilean actor Oscar Garcés was arrested last Saturday morning by Carabineros in Calama after a 25-year-old woman accused him of sexual abuse.Garcés, who was the boyfriend of Francini Amaral, was traveling with Cristián Vidal and Francisco Schilling to Calama. A few hours before the incident, he had attended an event in the "Sala Murano" disco.Prosecutor Pablo Medina reports that Garcés went at 5:00 AM to the Sonesta Hotel, and called the reception desk to request room service. Soon after, he was involved in a fight with a female hotel worker. The victim accused Garcés of forcibly attempting to kiss her and trying to molest her. Medina later said: "The detained was accused of sexual abuse against a woman."After the incident, the woman called Carabineros and later verified her lesions at the Carlos Cisternas Hospital. Police subsequently informed Medina, who ordered that Garcés be arrested. Medina reported the investigation will take about 80 days. Garcés is currently free with some restrictions."The accused cannot come within a 200-meter radius from the victim", Medina said. He also explained that Garcés could be imprisoned from three to seven years. After being set free, Garcés came back to Santiago, saying: "I'm very sad. I don't want to say anything until I can talk with my lawyer," La Cuarta reported.More than 50 musicians held a concert for and donated school tools to schoolboys at Peralillo, Chile The Víctor Jara High School and the Violeta Parra School were both affected by the 2010 Chile earthquakes. Peralillo is part of the O'Higgins Region and is located around 10 kilometers from Santa Cruz along the road to Pichilemu. It has almost 10,000 inhabitants, most of whom work in agriculture. The Víctor Jara High School and the Violeta Parra School were severely damaged by the earthquakes. The musicians gave the students musical instruments and school tools such as pencils, erasers, and rulers in addition to books for their school libraries.Some of the artists that went to Peralillo include Juanita Parra (drummer of Los Jaivas), José Seves (Inti-Illimani), Cecilia Echenique, Alexis Venegas, Denisse (Aguaturbia) and K-Reena. Two hip-hop bands, Zaturno, and Juana Fé, performed in the centre of Peralillo on Friday morning.BEIJING, China — According to a story released on January 26, 2005 by the Chinese news agency Xinhua, the government of China has banned 50 electronic games in a new government probe into the software market and electronic publication. The Director of the State Anti-Pornography Office, Liu Binjie, said that the Chinese government will concentrate on combating illegal publications: pirated textbooks, electronic publications and illegal journals that may have negative influence on the youth.Among the banned games are: "Manhunt", "FIFA 2005",  "The Sims 2", "Battlefield Vietnam", "Painkiller: Battle out of Hell", and "Age of Mythology: the Titans".Chinese animator Te Wei has died at the age of 95 in Shanghai.The cause of death was announced as respiratory failure. Wei was known for his traditional style of art.Born in 1915 as Sheng Song, Wei was classed as one of the founders of Chinese animation. He worked in animation for several decades and won several awards for his work. He has the credit of being the only Chinese artist to be awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award from the International Animated Film Association.During the Cultural Revolution of China, Wei was not permitted to carry on with his work.One of his best works was the short animated film The Conceited General in 1956. Other notable works include Where is Mama, The Cowboy's Flute and Feeling from Mountain and Water.Peng Chang-kuei, a Chinese-born chef credited with creating the internationally popular dish General Tso's chicken, was yesterday announced to have died by his son.Chuck Peng told The Associated Press his father died of pneumonia in Taipei, Taiwan on Wednesday. The chef fled China to Taiwan in 1949 and invented the dish shortly thereafter. In the 1970s Peng opened a New York restaurant, which he claimed was a regular haunt of Henry Kissinger. Peng credited Kissinger with the dish's popularity.Peng conceived the famed dish, which is unknown in China, as unfried. Garlic and soy sauce provided flavour, as did chillies. Today the chicken is served across the US as fried chicken in a sweet, sticky sauce. The chillies remain, with broccoli also appearing. Peng named it after Zuo Zongtang from his native Hunan Province; Zongtang assisted in suppressing the 19th-century Taiping Rebellion.Peng said the meal was invented for a US admiral visiting Taiwan. Over three days, Peng was contracted to produce several banquets, with not one repeated dish. After exhausting traditional chicken dishes Peng said he created what became General Tso's chicken as an experiment.In later years he ran Peng's, a chain of Taiwanese restaurants. General Tso's chicken also remained popular across the US. His son claimed he remained working in the kitchen until a few months before his death, at 97. In a documentary two years ago, shown photos of General Tso's chicken served in the US in modern times, he remarked "This is all crazy nonsense."Running away from his farming family in Changsha, Peng trained under Cao Jingchen. He fled communist rule that followed the 1930s Japanese invasion. He fathered seven children, six of whom remain alive, from three marriages. Chuck Peng described his father as "very good to other people, [but] very hard on his family." Peng Jr. spoke of a "very demanding" man who "thought other people's cooking was no good."Two years ago the Taipei City Government awarded Peng an Outstanding Citizen award. Peng, then 95 and unstable, collected the award in person and delivered a speech in Mandarin Chinese.Bucharest, Romania — The Lunar New Year's Eve Festival will be celebrated in Bucharest, Romania for the first time ever as an organised event. The celebrations will include live shows, food exhibitions and fireworks, and will take place on February 10 in Nichita Stănescu Park.Designed to promote Chinese cultural heritage, the event will be organised by Bucharest City Hall, as well as the Romania-China Cultural Centre and the Chinese Embassy in Bucharest.Signifying the end of the winter and the start of spring, the Chinese New Year takes place on a different day at the beginning of the year, based on the moon's position relative to the sun. The celebrations will mark the beginning of the Year of the Rooster.Chinese premier Wen Jiabao paid a visit to the birthplace of English playwright and poet William Shakespeare on Sunday. The visit to Stratford-upon-Avon was included in his three-day tour of various industries in Britain. The UK is one of  China's biggest trading partners, second only to the EU.The 68-year-old Wen, reportedly a fan of Shakespeare, was met upon his arrival at Stratford-upon-Avon by  dozens of flag-waving individuals from the UK's Chinese community. He  visited Shakespeare's birthplace, which is now a museum and then attended a scene from  Shakespeare's "Hamlet", his favourite play, while sitting in the "sun-drenched" garden. He toured the collection of treasures  at the town's Shakespeare Birthplace Trust. On his tour at the Trust, lasting half an hour longer than planned, he looked through a 17th-century folio of Shakespeare's famous  plays. Trust director Diana Owen, who talked with Wen during his informal tour, said Wen described Shakespeare  as "the greatest writer of all time."  Wen told Sky News that his  love of Shakespeare began as a child."The local people here have every reason to take pride that this place has produced a figure who belongs not only to the UK but to the world," Mr Wen said to Sky News. "A great man who belongs not just to his era but to entire history."The Chinese leader's arrival in England came days after the announcement of activist and dissident sculptor Ai Weiwei's release by Beijing last Wednesday, after a global call for his release. The announcement, made before Wen's meeting today with British Prime Minister David Cameron, was likely discussed along with the issue of China's record on human rights and trade deals. There were several protesters outside Downing Street, who held a banner that read "Cameron and Wen: human rights before trade".The goal of the visit, part of a three-nation tour of Europe, is the strengthening of economic ties between the two countries. China is increasingly outsourcing its own manufacturing to less costly labour markets and wants to increase its investments in established European brands. Today, China and Britain announced contracts worth over one billion pounds.British Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt, whose wife is Chinese, was hopeful that Wen's visit would have a positive effect on the country's  tourism industry. He told Sky News, "I am hoping that a billion Chinese might see some pictures on their TV of their premier coming and visiting the birthplace of Shakespeare, and thinking: 'Well, I'd like to go there as well.' " Hunt noted that 150,000 Chinese visit the UK yearly and thinks that is "the tip of the iceberg".Hunt stressed that Wen's visit is not only about jobs. It is also about developing broader cultural ties "which is the best possible way to make sure we understand each other and  avoid the kind of misunderstanding that so can bedevil relationships, as has happened in the past," he told the BBC.The Chinese are interested in British happenings. About 30 million Chinese watched the recent Royal wedding.North Korea's 007, a currently very popular short movie by some Chinese netizens, mocks Kim Jong Il and his secret agent buying Hennessy XO wine from Chinese black market.As of 3:27 AM, January 20, 2007, China Standard Time, the movie has been watched 1,993,567 times on a single site (6rooms.com) and received 1620 comments.The talks between the North Koreans are in English; the talks between the agent and the Chinese are in Chinese (now featuring English subtitles). The story part situated in China is as follows:Spoiler warning: Plot and/or ending details follow.The agent first went to a grocery where he didn't find XO, then to a wine store which sells XO, but he complained about the price being much more expensive than the price quoted on the Internet. His accent surprised a girl who recognized his North Korean identity and the saleswoman rejected his buying due to "resulting UN security council penalty." The agent left the store and a white-coated fat man (a black market wine seller) and a black-coated man followed.The agent checked in at a hotel and received 3 phone calls; one from his commander urging him forward on the mission, one from a whore offering "special service" (to whom the agent replied with "Yes, I need, I need a bottle of XO!"), and one from the fat man asking him to go to a disco bar for XO trading. He went to the bar and watched the fat man dancing to "We Were Forced to Be Gangs" (the music is Michael Jackson's "Beat It"). The fat man found the agent's money was fake (which the agent explained was because North Korea wanted to "ease the pressure that the hostile West put on China for currency appreciation") and a fight ensued. The fat man was defeated and said "Your country is not based on honesty" while the agent said in his mind, "No honesty for your revisionist country."The agent is about to cross the China-North Korea border and the black-coated man caught up and defeated him by breaking his "Kim Jong Il medal" (which is a devastating psychological strike to North Koreans). The black-coated man revealed himself to be George W. Bush and some Chinese bystanders questioned him on why he hung Saddam ("One Saddam is down but a million Saddams will be up!") and drove him away. The curious Chinese bystanders accidentally broke the agent's XO which resulted in another devastating episode. The white-coated fat man reappeared and said he saw the whole event and was impressed by the agent and gave away another bottle of XO to him.The agent returned to North Korea and presented the XO to Kim Jong Il (on their way to Kim's residence their eyes were covered in order not to "give the Americans a chance to pinpoint Kim's precise location"). Kim immediately died because the wine was faked and poisonous.The anonymous individual responsible for suggesting, 14 hours before police discovered the body, that WWE wrestler Chris Benoit's wife was dead is saying his/her comment was a "terrible coincidence."In a post made at 12:26 AM EDT Friday morning to the talk page of a Wikinews article headlined as the "Death of Nancy Benoit rumour posted on Wikipedia hours prior to body being found", the user admitted to writing that Nancy Benoit was dead at the Wikipedia article page for Benoit came from information that was garnered from "rumors and speculation online." The IP Address of the individual making the apology was identical to that of the one who posted the Nancy Benoit rumor, a strong confirmation of the admission's authenticity. The lengthy apology was not signed, with the individual claiming, "I am just an everyday individual who posted a wrongful remark at the time that received so much attention because it turned out to actually happen."  Wikinews originally broke the story about the suspicious edit after receiving a tip from Wikipedia administrators. The fact the edit originated from a computer in Stamford, Connecticut (the site of WWE headquarters) appears to be another coincidence.The anonymous editor left a lengthy apology to the Wikimedia community, explaining, "I hope this puts an end to this speculation that someone knew about the tragedy before it was discovered."Wikinews is continuing to follow the story, but the anonymous user has declined an interview.Below is the full, unedited apology:The British actor Chris Langham has been found guilty on 15 counts of downloading child pornography. A jury of four women and seven men took two hours and forty minutes to reach a verdict at Maidstone Crown Court. Judge Philip Statman said that Langham will remain in custody till his sentencing on September 14.Langham, 58, from Goldford, Kent claimed that he had been studying porn sites, researching for a character called, "Pedro," for the television series Help. However, co-star Paul Whitehouse claimed he had no knowledge of this research. Langham refused to answer questions about certain images found on his computer.During his time in court, Langham claimed that he was abused at the age of eight during a holiday to Canada. He also said his brothers and sisters were abused, and that he felt no shame at looking at child pornography. Langham said he pleaded not guilty because he did not want to be labelled a, "Paedophile".Langham however was cleared of charges of indecently assaulting an underage girl. The girl claimed that Langham took her virginity at the age of 14, but Judge Statman said, "The Crown accepts that there is no evidence to support these particular counts on the indictment."Langham said, in a statement read out by his solicitor, "I am absolutely delighted my name has been cleared of all the charges I have consistently denied. I have been found guilty on charges I have made admission to from the moment of my first arrest. I am grateful to the jury for their careful deliberation and I would also like to thank the press for their restraint in not making the lives of my wife, children and family difficult during this time and I implore them to continue to grant my family the privacy they need. I am afraid I am unable to comment further until sentence on the 14 September."Derek Cuff, Deputy Inspector of Kent Police said, "Let us not forget that child abuse images circulating on the internet are real situations involving real children, who are sexually abused for other's gain and self-gratification. Viewing such images simply perpetuates child abuse. The jury had to view some images that had to be selected carefully - but what they saw and heard in evidence is harrowing and disturbing. I think this itself puts some measure of perspective on the level of child abuse we are dealing with."This will affect the filming of the next series of the satirical sitcom The Thick of It, where Langham plays Hugh Abbot MP. The last two special episodes did not star Langham due to his arrest. Writer Armando Iannucci hoped that if Langham was found not guilty, he would be able to appear in his show again.British comedy actor Chris Langham has been sentenced to ten months imprisonment for downloading indecent images of children from the internet, less 43 days for the time he served in custody.Langham, 58, most famous for his award-winning role in the sitcom The Thick of It was found guilty of 15 counts of downloading of child abuse, including sadism and non-consensual sex between adults and children. The police classified some of the images downloaded as category 5, the most severe grade. Langham claimed that he had used the images as research for a character in the BBC comedy Help, a paedophile character called, "Pedro". Langham was however, found not guilty of sexually assaulting a teenage girl and two counts of a serious sexual offence.Passing sentence, Judge Philip Statman told Langham, "Some of the children viewed are clearly prepubescent, others are fully developed, some of the children are clearly of Filipino extract. All have had inflicted upon them horrifying sexual abuse and, I want to make this absolutely clear to you, I must think first of those children. When one sees their faces, in my judgment, they are vacant and lacking in expression... you never ever see the faces of the perpetrators. They are too young to consent. Your activity took place in the comfort of your own home, no doubt at the time feeling safe in the knowledge that you would never be caught."British comedy actor Chris Langham has won an appeal to have the sentence reduced in his conviction for downloading indecent images of children from the internet. Originally sentenced to 10 months in prison, Langham's sentence has now been cut to 6 months, and he is set to be released today.Langham, 58, had been found guilty on 15 counts for downloading child pornography. Police claimed that several images found on Langham's computer were of the worst category, "Level 5" severity. However, Langham claimed that he was using the images for researching a character in a TV series called Help. Dame Heather Steel, one of Britain's most senior female judges agreed that the sentence could be cut.Langham was arrested in 2005. During his original trial, Langham was found not guilty of indecently assaulting an underage girl. He had appealed his sentence previously, but was rejected in October 2006.In the United Kingdom, radio personality Chris Moyles has announced his intention to stop presenting his breakfast show, The Chris Moyles Show, on BBC Radio 1 in September of this year, having presented it since January 2004. Nick Grimshaw, who is currently a late-night presenter at the radio station, has been appointed as his replacement.Moyles, who presents Channel 4 game show Chris Moyles' Quiz Night, broke the record for the longest-running breakfast show on Radio 1 in September 2009, surpassing Tony Blackburn's record from September 1967 to June 1973. The Chris Moyles Show has also achieved two Sony Awards. Moyles hosted an edition of his show in March 2011, lasting for 52 hours, which raised £2.4 million for British charity Comic Relief. It was at the time the longest radio broadcast ever. From September of this year, Moyles is to portray the role of Herod in a UK tour of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical Jesus Christ Superstar.In July 2011, Moyles had signed a BBC contract, worth a million pounds, to allow him to continue presenting his show until January 2014. According to The Guardian, Greg James had been widely anticipated to take Moyles' position after his departure. Moyles said his position was "his dream job" and one he had "wanted since I was a child ... I know some kids want to be a professional footballer or a fireman but not me, I'm a geek and I wanted to be on the radio and I wanted the biggest radio show you could get and eventually I got it."Moyles, who has referred to himself as the 'saviour of Radio 1', wished to "give [the listeners] a heads up and tell [them] that we are going to wrap it up" on his show. In a speech, Moyles said he has had "the best time of [his] life" and spoke of his belief that "it's almost time to go, and so we're off. I just wanted to let you know. A couple more months of us and then it's someone else's turn to have a go, so thanks for listening and I hope you stay with us until the end because I promise it's going to be brilliant."BBC Radio 1 controller Ben Cooper considered Moyles to be "the most successful breakfast show host in Radio 1 history" and described him as "fantastic". Grimshaw said that he "love[s] Chris and have always looked up to him as one of the best broadcasters ever".In contrast, Daily Mail columnist Paul Connolly criticised Moyles, calling him a "cultural barbarian" who "assault[s] our eardrums with drivel" and describing him as "deliberately, determinedly yobbish". There have been numerous occasions when Moyles has caused controversy, such as feeling the breasts of singer Melanie Brown live on air in June 2008 while providing a running commentary as he was doing so. After his appearance on BBC television programme Who Do You Think You Are? in January 2009, he remarked: "[U]nlike a lot of the Who Do You Think You Are? shows I didn't go to Auschwitz. Pretty much everyone goes there whether or not they're Jewish. They just seem to pass through there on their way to Florida." This caused the BBC to state in response: "[W]e regret that on this occasion his comments were misjudged and we are speaking to Chris and his team about them."Moyles said in a May 2006 programme: "I don’t want that [ringtone], it's gay", prompting accusations of homophobia. In his defence, the corporation explained "the word 'gay', in addition to being used to mean ‘homosexual' or 'carefree', was often now used to mean 'lame' or 'rubbish'." The LGBT charity Stonewall subsequently awarded Moyles 'Bully of the Year' at their award ceremony that year. The Guardian also quoted him as saying in November 2006: "Yeah, I'm homophobic, I don't like the gays. Sorry, it just does my head in."Cooper has reportedly been placed under pressure to try and decrease the age demographic of the audience of Radio 1. Having been told that the station should attempt to broadcast primarily to individuals aged between 15 and 29 by a BBC Trust review in 2009, a separate review by the body in June 2012 found that too many of its listeners were over the age of 30. Recent figures have suggested BBC Radio 2 breakfast show host Chris Evans is more popular than Moyles' programme. RAJAR statistics for the latest period indicate that Evans' programme received a peak of 9.2 million listeners every week on average while The Chris Moyles Show achieved a figure of 7.1 million at the same time. During the same period last year, Moyles' show was getting an audience of approximately 7.5 million.Grimshaw, who is one of the presenters of youth programming block T4 on Channel 4, commented he was "super-excited to be hosting the iconic Radio 1 Breakfast Show, it's been a dream of mine since the age of 11 and to be honest it hasn't really sunk in yet." Cooper describes Grimshaw as a "great broadcaster with a passion for music and a mischievous sense of humour, which has made him a hit with our listeners" and believes he will be an "excellent" replacement for Moyles, "bringing a new generation of listeners with him."Chris Moyles has broken the record for the longest-running breakfast show on BBC Radio 1, beating the previous record holder Tony Blackburn, who had a total of 2,072 days on the job. Moyles has now clocked up 2,073 days on the job, and the number is still increasing as the days pass. Tony Blackburn opened BBC Radio 1 on September 30, 1967, and kept on going until June 1, 1973. Chris Moyles started the breakfast show on January 5, 2004 and is still going. In an interview with British tabloid the Daily Mirror, Moyles said: "I have taken a [pay] cut because they wanted me to take a cut."I don't like the fact that I am earning less than I was two years ago, and I don't deserve to be because we are working harder and the figures are up. But at the same time if the BBC are saying 'help us out for a bit', then that's fine."The Chris Moyles Show, the name of the weekday breakfast show on BBC Radio 1, is going on a tour that will involve performing in Plymouth, Cardiff, Leeds, Glasgow and London, all in the United Kingdom. Moyles stated: "By going out on the road for a week we are trying to thank as many people as we can."Chris Moyles calls himself "the saviour of Radio 1".  He equalled the record on Friday, and beat it on Monday.Radio personality Chris Moyles presented his last edition of The Chris Moyles Show, a breakfast radio programme on UK station BBC Radio 1, from 0630 to 1000 BST (0530 to 0900 UTC) Friday. At its peak in 2010, the programme was receiving an audience of 7.9 million.Moyles, who had been presenting the breakfast show since January 2004, announced his departure in July. Moyles said he had had "the best time of [his] life" and wished to "give [the listeners] a heads up and tell [them] that we are going to wrap it up" on his show on July 11."Thanks for supporting us," Moyles told his audience that morning, "and, with the risk of sounding ridiculously cheesy, for making all our dreams come true." To get as far as he did was like "some weird victory", he said, taking into account "all the flak we've taken".The first song played on the last show was 'Blind Faith' by Chase & Status featuring Liam Bailey. The last was Coldplay's 'Viva la Vida'.Moyles, who has referred to himself as the 'saviour of Radio 1', broke the record for the longest-running breakfast show on Radio 1 in September 2009, surpassing Tony Blackburn's record from September 1967 to June 1973. The Chris Moyles Show has also achieved two Sony Awards.  From later this month, Moyles is to portray the role of Herod in a UK tour of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical Jesus Christ Superstar. Moyles said his position was "his dream job" and one he had "wanted since I was a child ... I wanted the biggest radio show you could get and eventually I got it", he said. BBC Radio 1 controller Ben Cooper considered Moyles to be "the most successful breakfast show host in Radio 1 history" and described him as "fantastic".Nick Grimshaw, who was previously a late-night presenter at the radio station, is scheduled to replace him on September 24, although Greg James was reportedly widely anticipated to take Moyles' position after his departure before the news emerged. "[I am] super-excited to be hosting the iconic Radio 1 Breakfast Show," Grimshaw said in July. "[I]t's been a dream of mine since the age of 11 and to be honest it hasn't really sunk in yet." Grimshaw said he "love[s] Chris and [has] always looked up to him as one of the best broadcasters ever".However, Moyles' show has not been without its controversial moments. One such incident was a remark he made after his appearance on BBC television programme Who Do You Think You Are? in January 2009. "[U]nlike a lot of the Who Do You Think You Are? shows I didn't go to Auschwitz," he said. "Pretty much everyone goes there whether or not they're Jewish. They just seem to pass through there on their way to Florida." The incident prompted the BBC to respond: "[W]e regret that on this occasion his comments were misjudged and we are speaking to Chris and his team about them."In a separate incident in a May 2006 programme, Moyles said he did not want to get a certain ringtone because it was "gay", prompting accusations of homophobia. In his defence, the corporation explained "the word 'gay', in addition to being used to mean 'homosexual' or 'carefree', was often now used to mean 'lame' or 'rubbish'." The Guardian also quoted Moyles as saying in November 2006: "Yeah, I'm homophobic, I don't like the gays. Sorry, it just does my head in." LGBT charity Stonewall awarded Moyles 'Bully of the Year' at their award ceremony the same year.At the time of Moyles' departure being announced in July, Cooper was reportedly placed under pressure to try and decrease the age demographic of the audience of Radio 1. Having been told the station should attempt to broadcast primarily to individuals aged between 15 and 29 by a BBC Trust review in 2009, a separate review by the body in June 2012 found too many of its listeners were over the age of 30.Cooper described Grimshaw as a "great broadcaster with a passion for music and a mischievous sense of humour" back in July and believed he would be an "excellent" replacement for Moyles, "bringing a new generation of listeners with him."A collision between Christian band MercyMe's tour bus and a car has killed two passengers in the car and the 18-year-old driver's unborn baby. The woman is in critical condition following the crash, which occurred in Fort Wayne, northeastern Indiana.The bus was headed to Six Flags St. Louis in Missouri for the band to play to a sold-out crowd. At 1:15 a.m. Saturday, according to witnesses, the bus was going through a green light when the car made a turn in front of it.No-one on the bus was injured, and the band rescheduled the show for September as a result of the incident. A photograph of the damaged bus was posted on the band's website, depicting moderate crumpling to the front area of the vehicle.The Greater Manchester town of Rochdale has begun setting up decorations for a number of festivities, including Eid, a Muslim holiday. However, there's a twist—in order to save money, the town is also erecting Christmas decorations early. Among the decorations were a giant Noel sign, holly leaves, and a skiing penguin. Some residents were opposed to the move; one person said, "Seeing the lights makes me feel depressed. I know we haven't had much of a summer, but let's get it out of the way first". Another commented, "It's ludicrous. It's the height of summer and they're putting up Christmas lights. A worker told me they had to be up in time for all the religious festivals, but most of the lights refer to the Christian Christmas."A spokeswoman for the Rochdale borough council said, "We understand that we're early putting Christmas lights up now, but we are merely putting them up and not switching them on. We have a duty to save taxpayers' money, and by putting them up now with lights for other festivities – including Eid in September – we will be saving around £10,000".The Church of England has threatened legal action against Sony Entertainment over the inclusion of the Manchester Cathedral in the PS3 launch title Resistance: Fall of Man. The game, set in  various English locations during an alternate history, includes a gun fight within the building. The scene in question involves a small group of humans, including the player, taking refuge in the cathedral and attempting to fight off aliens who are attacking them.The Church has requested an apology, saying that Sony did not ask for permission to include the Cathedral in the game, describing the game as "sick and sacrilegious". The Dean of Manchester Cathedral criticised Sony for failing to take into account Manchester's gun crime problems, saying "it is a shame to have Sony undermining our work". Meanwhile, a spokesman for Sony defended the game, telling the Daily Telegraph,  "[the game] is not based on reality at all" and compared it to the fictional series Doctor Who.The Church will send a letter directly to Sony on Monday requesting an apology and withdrawal of the game from sale.The Church of Scientology is attempting to block the broadcast of a film on the German television broadcaster ARD, claiming the film is "intolerant" and violates the broadcaster's guidelines.The film titled Until Nothing Remains (Bis Nichts Mehr Bleibt) due to be broadcast during prime-time on March 31 tells the fictionalised story of a German family destroyed by their involvement in Scientology. It is based on the true story of former member Heiner von Rönn who lost thousands of euros and his wife and two children who are still members. Von Rönn was a member of the organisation for ten years.Scientology in Germany claims the movie is top secret propaganda and is attempting to undermine the organisation and its adherents.  Scientology spokesman Jürg Stettler told the daily Munich newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung, "What they're planning to show is a violation of ARD's programming guidelines.  The station is required to support religious tolerance, not the opposite."  He added, "The truth is precisely the opposite of what ARD is showing."The film was made in total secrecy under the title The Dead Man in the Sound with the script, signs and clapboards bearing the fake title. Despite the attempts by the film crew to obscure the film's story and intent, it appears the Scientology organisation still found out about the movie. The crew says there were reports of a Scientology spokesman tailing them at one point. Notebooks were also stolen from the trunk of director Niki Stein's car. Not too long after the theft, Stein received an anonymous call whose caller stated, "We know you're making a movie about Scientology," and promptly hung up.The film highlights concerns in Germany about the organisation which the government considers to a business, an abusive one at that and not a religion. The government is so concerned about Scientology that the group is monitored by the country's domestic intelligence services. Tensions reached a high during the making of the movie Valkyrie, which starred Tom Cruise, a well known Scientology celebrity in his role as Colonel Claus von Stauffenberg, the Wehrmacht officer who attempted to assassinate Adolf Hitler.Carl Bergengruen, the head of TV movies for Südwestrundfunk (SWR or Southwest Broadcasting), the public broadcaster backing the project defended their secrecy practices saying, "Scientology kept trying to use a variety of methods to find out details about the project. We had reason to worry that the organisation would use all the legal means at its disposal to prevent the film from being broadcast." He added, [As such, the project was] "kept under wraps for as long as possible for security reasons."Meanwhile, Volker Herres, programme director for ARD dismissed the charges leveled by Scientology at the film's screening saying, "We're not dealing here with a religion, rather with an organisation that has completely different motives. Scientology is about power, business, and building up a network. Its lessons are pure science fiction, it's no religion, no church, no sect."Scientology has endured further controversy in recent weeks and months. Back in October of last year, Paul Haggis, director of the Oscar-winning film Crash and writer of Million Dollar Baby, which also won an Oscar, quit the Scientology organisation over its stance on same-sex marriage. Then last week, a feature article in The New York Times highlighted fraud and abuse that had occurred to a couple who were members of Scientology's high ranking Sea Organization or SeaOrg.The Church of Scientology has threatened legal action in order to take over ownership of the domain name of a web site which links to the odd behaviour of one of the world's most famous scientologists: Tom Cruise.http://ScienTOMogy.info has apparently received a fax and at least 6 emails in the span of 2 days from Scientology lawyer Ava Paquette of Moxon & Kobrin threatening a lawsuit of up to $100,000 if the domain name ownership is not transferred. This type of letter is often called a cease and desist letter.The owners of scienTOMogy.info have posted the complaints and their replies, saying that the site simply expresses opinion, does not make any claims, and clearly states that it has no connection to the Church of Scientology. "The site was put up as a single source to view all the recent hype Tom has made about the church - it does nothing but show Tom, so we are at a loss as to why the church is acting so rashly."The Church of Scientology is notorious for pursing legal action against its critics, under the name of the "Religious Technology Center" (RTC). It previously made headlines when it used the US's Digital Millennium Copyright Act to remove xenu.net[1], a site critical of Scientology, from Google's listings.Stars from the world of showbusiness joined fans and mourners yesterday at the funeral of the popular entertainer Cilla Black. Her coffin was transported in a cortege in Liverpool where she grew up, with hundreds of people paying their respects. Some were holding memorabilia related to Black's 50-year long career in entertainment, which included singing and presenting television programmes such as Blind Date.Tom Williams, auxiliary bishop of Liverpool, conducted the Roman Catholic mass in St Mary's Roman Catholic Church in Liverpool's Woolton area. This is the same church that Black got married in 1969 to Bobby Willis, who died in 1999 after 30 years of marriage. Eulogies were delivered by Cliff Richard and Paul O'Grady together with poems read by two of Black's sons. Further tributes were paid by Tom Jones, who flew in specially for the funeral.After the service, Black was to be interred in a private ceremony, next to the graves of her parents at the Allerton cemetery. She died early this month, aged 72, after she fell at her home in Spain and suffered a stroke.Infinity broadcasting, one of the largest radio companies in the U.S.A., announced its KYOU Radio, the world's first-ever podcasting radio station, began broadcasting on Monday, May 16 at 9:00 a.m., ET. The podcasts will also be available on San Francisco's KYCY-AM at 1550 AM.The new format allows any listener to create a podcast and upload it to the station. Infinity said that its "All Podcast" format, "is going to give voice to your vision." Infinity will try to sell advertising on the programs, though they do not plan to pay the podcasters for their work.Audio Wikinews is among other individually-produced content which will be featured on the station.Yesterday evening saw the Usher Hall in Edinburgh host a meeting between representatives of the City of Edinburgh Council (CEC) and the local rock and pop music scene. The meeting was dominated with local musicians' complaints over the "zero tolerance" policy Edinburgh is viewed as having adopted towards amplified music.The meeting began with the leading panel — Norma Austin Hart, vice-convener for Culture and Sport; John Stout, promoter from Regular Music; Kevin Buckle, of local store Avalanche Records; and Karl Chapman, manager of the Usher Hall — introducing themselves and outlining the purpose of the meeting. This being best-summarised as a desire to emulate the vibrant music scene of places as far-flung as Austin, Texas and Sydney, Australia.Councillor Hart indicated officials from Austin had already offered to get involved in improving the live music scene in the city; although none were present from Austin, US-born local musician Pat Dennis provided his frank opinion on where Edinburgh fails to nurture the local music scene: that failure to support a grass-roots, small venue, music scene prevents the city being capable of organising events similar to Austin's South by Southwest festival outwith August, when Edinburgh hosts the Festival and Fringe.Coming in for the lion's share of criticism, staff from CEC's Licensing Board were visibly uncomfortable when the topic of the "single complainant" was brought up time and time again. Unlike any other business within the city, or residential properties, noise pollution within premises permitted to sell alcohol is not managed by environmental health staff. That responsibility is bundled with the alcohol license, which leaves publicans fearful that their premises will be forced to close if they do not comply with demands to cease use of any amplification, or hosting live music. This was characterised as a 'tyranny of the minority', a most-undemocratic approach where one person — for example, recently moved into a property adjacent to a long-established premises hosting live music — could force the closure of a business which has hosted local talent for 30+ years.Taking heed of the strength of feeling from the majority present, Councillor Hart made a number of personal commitments towards the end of the meeting. Those included setting up a working group, Music is Audible, to look at how the council could better work with venues, and to have a follow-up meeting in March next year.SÃO PAULO, Brazil —Tonight seven hours of festivities will take place in the well-known Avenue Paulista, in the heart of São Paulo. Over one million people are expected to show up at the celebration of the city's 451st anniversary.Both the city´s Mayor, José Serra, and the state´s Governor, Geraldo Alckmin, are due to attend the celebration.Actress Claire Danes appeared Wednesday in Toronto on the television series MuchOnDemand, to promote her new film, Stardust.Danes appears in the fantasy epic Stardust opposite Michelle Pfeiffer, Robert DeNiro, and Sienna Miller. The film is based on Neil Gaiman's novel of the same name. Danes plays a striking girl named Yvaine, who is a fallen star. Pfeiffer, DeNiro, and Charlie Cox are all pursuing her.Best known as Angela Chase in the 1994 television series My So-Called Life and Juliet in Baz Luhrmann's 1996 film William Shakespeare's Romeo + Juliet. She began stepping back into the spotlight a few years ago, with lead roles in The Hours, Stage Beauty, Shopgirl, and The Family Stone.This September, Danes will hit Broadway for the first time, as Eliza Doolittle in a revival of Pygmalion, also known as My Fair Lady. She will soon be seen in another film, The Flock, opposite Richard Gere.MuchOnDemand is a long-running program MuchMusic, Canada's primary music channel. The program airs every weekday at 5 p.m. ET, as an hour-long per broadcast viewer interactive television program.Clarence Clemons, soulful saxophonist most famed for his forty years as a sideman in Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band, died Saturday at a Palm Beach, Florida hospital. The cause of death was complications from a stroke he had suffered a week ago at his Singer Island home. He was 69. Called the "Big Man" because of his 6-foot 5-inch frame, Clemons joined Springteen's  New Jersey band in 1972. For all but two years, he was the only black in the largely white, working class group, and became a key influence in Springsteen's music as well as a trusted companion. He was a jovial on-stage presence and musically added to the band's electric guitar sound and strong rhythms. According to the New York Times, he added "muscular, melodic saxophone hooks that echoed doo-wop, soul and early rock ’n’ roll".  His rollicking saxophone solos were a signature sound for the E Street Band on songs such as Jungleland,  and Born To Run.He also released several solo albums and played with other bands and artists.  He was featured on Aretha Franklin's Freeway of Love and duetted with Jackson Browne on You're a Friend of Mine. Most recently, he played on Lady Gaga's latest album, Born This Way. Additionally, he occasionally acted, appearing in such movies as Martin Scorsese's New York, New York and various TV shows including Diff’rent Strokes. He famously jammed with  President Bill Clinton at his first inaugural ball in 1993. Clemons was born in Norfolk, Virginia on Jan. 11, 1942 and grew up in a religious environment, immersed in gospel music. He was drawn to  rock ’n’ roll and received an alto sax as a Christmas gift when he was nine, but soon fell under the  influence of King Curtis (who played on the 1958 hit Yakety Yak with the Coasters) and moved to the tenor sax. He said in an interview: "I got into the soul music, but I wanted to rock. I was a rocker. I was a born rock 'n' roll sax player."Clemons was also a talented athlete and received a college scholarship for football and music, but he injured his knee in a car accident, ending any chances for a professional football career. Springsteen said in a statement: "Clarence lived a wonderful life. He carried within him a love of people that made them love him.  He created a wondrous and extended family. He loved the saxophone, loved our fans and gave everything he had every night he stepped on stage. His loss is immeasurable and we are honored and thankful to have known him and had the opportunity to stand beside him for nearly forty years. He was my great friend, my partner and with Clarence at my side, my band and I were able to tell a story far deeper than those simply contained in our music.  His life, his memory, and his love will live on in that story and in our band."In this week's interview on Fox News Sunday, former U.S. President Bill Clinton described a question by the host Chris Wallace as a "conservative hitjob."According to the introduction given by Wallace, a pre-interview agreement to split the interview evenly between questions on Clinton's Global Initiative and any topic of the network's choosing was in place.  Things didn't quite work out like that.After a few opening questions, Wallace raised the issue of Clinton's efforts to deal with Osama bin Laden, "Why didn't you do more to put bin Laden and al-Quaeda out of business?"  The 60-year old ex-president took issue with this characterization of his record, highlighting his efforts to kill bin Laden and comparing them with the record of the current administration before September 11, 2001, "they had no meetings on bin Laden for nine months after I left office."Clinton's determination to rebut the implication that he had not done enough to kill bin Laden took the majority of the first two sections of the three-part interview.  As well as condemning the inaction of "neo-conservatives" and accusing them of hypocrisy for describing his efforts to kill bin Laden as an "obsession", Clinton asked Wallace why the same questions were not put to the current administration about their pre-September 11 efforts, if any, to kill bin Laden. Clinton pointed out that the political-right attacked his efforts to kill bin Laden as an attempt to "wag the dog." He also said that he could not get the FBI or CIA to certify that bin Laden was responsible for the USS Cole attack, so his battle plans for attacking the Taliban in Afghanistan were not put into action.In the much reduced amount of time devoted to Clinton's Global Initiative it was revealed that compared to last year's 2.5 billion dollars, this year commitments totaling more than $7.3 billion have been raised, $3 billion of that from Richard Branson's pledge to give all the profits from his rail operations.American cable news network CNN has began to implement more personalities into its lineup, with the hirings of three prominent conservative commentators as contributors.  On January 5, the weblog TVNewser reported that Bill Bennett had been hired by the network as a political analyst.  Bennett, a Republican activist, was appointed by Ronald Reagan as the Secretary of Education, and currently hosts a talk radio show, Morning in America.  Bennet came under fire in late 2005 for controversial statements made following the landfall of Hurricane Katrina, in which he said on his radio program: "if you wanted to reduce crime, you could—if that were your sole purpose—you could abort every black baby in this country and your crime rate would go down."On January 17, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution reported that CNN Headline News was hiring radio host Glenn Beck to host a new primetime show, and just a day later, CNN announced that former Republican congressman J.C. Watts was joining the network as a political analyst.   Beck is quoted by the group Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting as saying that "Every night I get down on my knees and pray that Dennis Kucinich will burst into flames."In an article in Variety, CNN executive vice president Ken Jautz touted Beck, saying  "Glenn’s style is self-deprecating, cordial; he says he'd like to be able to disagree with guests and part as friends. It's conversational, not confrontational." In response, MSNBC host Keith Olbermann named Jautz the "Worst Person in the World" on his show, saying "That's cordial? Compared to who? Bill O'Reilly? Nancy Grace? Michael Savage?"Liberal media watch group Media Matters sent out two emails to members, saying, "These three actions [hirings] raise serious questions about whether CNN has made a high-level decision to support and promote right-wing individuals, even those who have a history of promoting conservative misinformation and offensive rhetoric," commented Media Matters' David Grossman.The media watch group Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting also criticized the move in an action alert, saying "The strategy of out-Foxing Fox by signing up incendiary right-wing talk show hosts is a dangerous one, as MSNBC found when it gave a show to hate-radio star Michael Savage and had to let him go when it turned out that his TV persona spouted the same vitriol featured on his radio show," referring to an incident during a live broadcast that led to Savage's dismissal.CNN has been in a fierce ratings competition with the FOX News Channel, which has steadily begun gaining market share against the network, featuring several of the most-watched primetime shows.U.S. Senator Barack Obama's family name may sound similar to that of the given name of Osama bin Laden. According to prominent American left-wing online blog Daily Kos, which was the first to report it, CNN mixed the two up on Monday, leading into a segment on bin Laden with the title, "Where's Obama?" on The Situation Room, a show hosted by pundit Wolf Blitzer. The blog posted a photo of the mistake. The author of the blog called it "character defamation." CNN has called the mistake "a bad typographical error". Soledad O'Brien and Blitzer apologised separately during CNN's American Morning on Tuesday."We want to apologize for that bad typo," Mr Blitzer said. "We also want to apologize personally to Senator Barack Obama. I'm going to be making a call to him later this morning to offer my personal apology."Mr Obama's press secretary said the apology was accepted. He also added that he appreciated the online blogs who brought the error to light."Though I'd note that the 's' and 'b' keys aren't all that close to each other, I assume it was just an unfortunate mistake, and don't think there was any truly malicious intent," said Tommy Vietor, Obama's press secretary.Stan Berenstain, co-creator of the popular Berenstain Bears children's books, has died due to complications from cancer at age 82. Along with his wife, Jan Berenstain, Stan and Jan Berenstain published over 200 books aimed at teaching children to read and helping them with lessons such as sharing, new siblings.The first Berenstain Bears book was published in 1962 and titled "The Big Honey Hunt". With the help of head of children's publishing at Random House, author Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, the Berenstains created a franchise that drew millions of young readers. Until 1997, when they hired an employee to run the company's computer, Mr. Berenstain and his family managed the entire ursine enterprise, which has branched out into two television series, videos, stage musicals, toys, cereal and other products.According to an interview of the Berenstain Bears official website, Papa Bear is based on Stan, Mama on Jan; Stan clarifies that he's "not as stupid" as Papa.Stan fed his interest in drawing as a child, by drawing on paper bags and cardboard.Two prominent South Carolina supporters of Barack Obama pressured the state Democratic council to keep Stephen Colbert off the primary ballot.  The Council voted 13-3 last week against Colbert's placement on the ballot.According to an anonymous member of the council who felt pressured, one of those people was State Superintendent of Education Inez Tenenbaum, who admitted she had made the calls.  "I think lobbying was too strong a word," she said in an interview with CNN. "I called them to see what they were thinking, and if they had made up their mind. I am a volunteer in that campaign, and so I am not a staffer. And I thought it could have taken votes away from a lot of people."Another Obama supporter, state Representative Bakari Sellers, also admitted to making the calls.  "I placed the calls as a concerned Democrat, realizing that we are a country in despair," Sellers told CNN. "It is not a time for games or to make a mockery of the process."Yesterday Colbert officially withdrew from the race.  “I am shocked and saddened by the South Carolina Democratic Executive Council’s 13-to-3 vote to keep me off their presidential primary ballot,” he said in the statement. “Although I lost by the slimmest margin in presidential election history — only 10 votes — I have chosen not to put the country through another agonizing Supreme Court battle. It is time for this nation to heal.”According to Tenenbaum, the reason she did not want Colbert on the ballot was financial and not political.  For every name the Democrats put on the ballot in South Carolina, they have to pay US$20,000 to the state election commission.  The Obama campaign denied any connection to the phone calls.In related news, at a book signing at Borders Book Store in New York City last night, a protester posing as a member of the press disrupted the event, demanding Colbert make statements about 7 World Trade Center.  Despite preliminary findings by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the National Institute of Standards and Technology that fire caused them, some conspiracy theorists believe the dramatic building collapses on September 11, including that of building seven, were the result of controlled demolition.  NIST has "found no evidence of a blast or controlled demolition event", though in its final report on building 7, they would "like to determine the magnitude of hypothetical blast scenarios that could have led to the structural failure of one or more critical elements." "What about World Trade Center Number 7, Stephen?" shouted the protester.  "What are you going to say about that?  Why don't you give us a witty remark and make a joke about it?  Keep smirking, Stephen!"  The protester was removed by the book store's security.The latest album of hit British band Coldplay is due to be released worldwide this Monday (in Europe) and Tuesday (in North America) amid rife anticipation among fans. The album, called X&Y, is the band's third, following Parachutes which came out in 2000 and A Rush of Blood to the Head which appeared in 2002. Combined sales of the first two albums are above 20m copies, making Coldplay one of the biggest bands of recent years.The majority of music critics have given the album a good review, claiming that the band's songs have become 'tougher' and 'more diverse'. Radio listeners have already sampled some of the new songs such as Speed Of Sound, and the full album has been leaked onto Internet file-sharing networks.The album, which features 13 tracks collectively accounting for 62 minutes of music, has topped Amazon.com's music sales chart since March thanks to thousands of pre-orders, breaking the record for internet pre-orders previously held by Dido's Life For Rent.On Friday morning, Student's Day was celebrated in the most schools across Chile. Student's Day was created in May 11, 1990 by Chile's Ministry of Education. The same day, the Supreme Decree N° 524 was validated, whereby also authorized the functioning of Student's Centres in the High Education schools.At Colegio Preciosa Sangre, Pichilemu celebration started at 8:30 AM local time (1230 UTC). Students, grouped by grade, shared a cup of milk and sandwiches. Competitions and games were originally planned to take place in the school's yard, but due to adverse weather, these were moved to an old, large room. The school was split into two teams, Roja (red) and Verde (green). The event was organized by Nicole Grez, Carol Piña, and Paola Sepúlveda, amidst others, and the judges included Angélica Miranda and Mother Loreto Fuentes.The first of the activities was the performance of a Pichileminian metal band, that covered Metallica's songs. Subsequently, started the games. The first one consisted of the imitation of a well-known musical artist. The Roja alliance prepared the imitation of Ráfaga's Luna Luna. The Verde alliance performed a sketch with Right Said Fred's I'm Too Sexy. Both alliances gained points for this activity.The next activity in the morning was gymkhana, that consisted if three steps for students from first to eight grades of Basic Education:Put a thread through a needle.Eat a pear while playing with a basketball ball.Pump up and burst an inflatable globe.From the first to fourth grades of High Education:Take out a coin from a plate full of flour.Eat a sandwich with hot chilli, and drink a glass of Coke.Put a thread through two needles. (Between this step and the fourth, they have to chew the same pear).Pump up and burst two globes.ResultsIn the group of 1st to 4th Grade (Basic), 5th to 8th Grade (Basic) and 1st to 4th Grade (High), the Verde team won.Subsequently, some girls from the Cheer-leading team performed a dance with some teachers from the school. Later, a game of the 3-legs jump took place. It mainly consisted of: samples of well-known songs were played, when they stopped, the pairs had to jump until they reached the microphone, and sing the rest of the song. Three groups of four grades were formed, as in the gymkhana game. Each group had to listen 3 songs.Results1st to 4th Grade (Basic)Mazapán - Una Cuncuna Amarilla : DrawAmérico - Que Levante La Mano : Verde team wonShakira - Loba : Verde team won5th to 8th Grade (Basic)Mazapán - Caballito Blanco : Rojo team wonSin Bandera - Suelta Mi Mano : Rojo team wonDJ Méndez feat. Crossfire - Lady : Rojo team won1st to 4th Grade (High)Los Jaivas - Mira Niñita : Rojo team wonShakira - Waka Waka (Esto es África) : DrawWisin & Yandel - La Minifalda : DrawFinally it was determined that the Rojo team won this game. The penultimate game took place at 12:05 local time (16:05 UTC), and it consisted of:First round: collect 15 turnkeys.Second round: collect 10 clocks.All of this had to be done in just 30 seconds. In the first round, the Verde team collected 11 turnkeys, and the Rojo team, 10. In the second round, the Verde team collected 6 clocks, while the Rojo team, 7.The last game was tugar tugar, which consisted of dancing known songs, including The Rickrollerz's Never Gonna Give You Up, Cosculluela's Prrum, Michael Jackson's Billie Jean, Américo's Te Vas and Chilean cuecas. After some time, the jury took out some pairs. There were six pairs, with a student from each grade. As the game came to a close, only two pairs remained. Finally, the game was won by the verde team.Angélica Miranda and Mother Loreto Fuentes, both judges, congratulated both teams and gave the total results:The same Pichileminian metal band that performed at the beginning of the games, played again, as students left the building.The boss of a crime gang identified as the Popular Anticommunist (alternatively, Anti-terrorist) Revolutionary Army (PARA) has surrendered to authorities in Colombia. Jose Lopez Montero, also called "Caracho", handed himself in yesterday. More than 280 other members of the group also gave themselves up to police yesterday and on Thursday. Why the group members gave themselves up en masse is currently uncertain. Caracho recently told Colombian media he had "tired of war". All of the group members surrendered in Villavicencio, a city located south-east of the capital Bogotá.Judges have yet to decide upon the legal status of the gang members. The ring members will remain in Villavicencio until they do. The Office of the Attorney General of Colombia has clarified that it did not negotiate with the group members at the time of their surrender. This is understood to be one of the largest mass suspect surrenders in the country for a number of years.Caracho is accused of conspiracy, while PARA's members are also accused of a variety of crimes, including murder and illegal drug trade. Prosecutor Nestor Armando Novoa has stated that Caracho may also face further criminal charges due to his leadership in PARA. It is anticipated the members of the gang will say where their weapons are cached.According to Associated Press, the political stance of the Popular Anticommunist Revolutionary Army is uncertain. Caracho had been the leader of PARA since the death of Pedro Guerrero, also called "Cuchillo" ("Knife"), who was killed in December of last year by falling in a river while trying to escape from police.Al Franken, a comedian, is going to run for Senator in 2008 for the state of Minnesota according to an unnamed official currently serving in the state, media reports say.According to the unnamed official, Franken said that he is planning to run for the senate in 2008 during a conversation.The director of Franken's Midwest Values Political Action Committee has refused to comment on the reports, and Franken has made no official announcement himself.Earlier this week, Franken announced on his Air America Radio show that he will no longer be hosting the show, but also said that he would make a decision about the senate race in the near future.Canadian comedian Colin Mochrie has been named host of Are You Smarter Than a Canadian 5th Grader?, according to a Wednesday afternoon press release from Global TV, which is producing and airing the series.Based on the American series Are You Smarter Than a 5th Grader, the program quizzes adults on material found in textbooks for children in grades 1 through 5.Colin commented, "I have been from one end of this country to the other and met adults of all ages, and let me tell you... those 5th Graders have nothing to worry about."Mochrie is best known as an improv comedian on both the British and American versions of Whose Line Is It Anyway?, but the Second City alumni has starred in Canadian comedy show This Hour Has 22 Minutes, Blackfly and Getting Along Famously. He tours North America with Whose's Line co-star Brad Sherwood, performing at numerous locales.The American series is hosted by Jeff Foxworthy. Thirteen other countries run or will run their own adaptations.Mochrie will donate a portion of his paycheck to CanWest Raise-a-Reader, a family literacy program run by the host media conglomerate.Only five episodes will be taped in Toronto, initially.The famous Irish comedian Dave Allen has died aged 68. Known as the Sit-down comedian, Allen was among the first to base his dry wit humour around the comic practices of large organisations and institutions such as the Catholic Church. Born in Dublin in 1936, he later moved to England to pursue his career. He initially  was a journalist, but later entered comedy. His fame peaked in the 1970s and 1980s with the BBC TV shows The Dave Allen Show and Dave Allen at Large.He is survived by his wife Karin, and their three children.American comedian George Carlin has died at the age of 71 after suffering heart failure.Carlin was taken to the Saint John's Health Center located in Santa Monica, California after he experienced chest pains and died in the early evening.Carlin has made several HBO specials and nearly two dozen comedy albums. He appeared in several movies such as Dogma, and was also the first host for the television show Saturday Night Live which premiered in 1975.Carlin suffered from a cocaine addiction throughout his life and was self-admitted to a rehab clinic in 2004.American comedian and Daily Show anchor Jon Stewart has been chosen to host the 78th Annual Academy Awards. This is not Stewart's first time hosting an awards show as he hosted the Grammys in 2001 and 2002.His choice by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences shows their continuing attempt to target a younger viewing audience. Last year's host was Chris Rock, also a comedian who is popular with young adults, whose performance and jokes at the expense of celebrities irked some Academy members. The Academy has also been seeking an Oscar host with the appeal of popular hosts such as Billy Crystal, Johnny Carson, and Bob Hope.The choice further demonstrates Stewart's transformation from the host of a cult TV show into a mainstream performer. Stewart is host of The Daily Show, a satirical show aired on Comedy Central that parodies network and cable news shows. The show started in 1996, anchored by Stewart's predecessor Craig Kilborn, who left in 1999 to host The Late Late Show with Craig Kilborn. The Daily Show draws in about 1.4 million viewers nightly. While not a groundbreaking number, sixty-five percent of those viewers are in the 18 to 49 age group, which is the group most coveted by television advertisers.The Daily Show has become influental in politics and pop culture. Stewart has interviewed many guests from both sides of the political spectrum, including 2004 presidential candidate John Kerry, Bill O'Reilly, Bill Clinton, Jimmy Carter, and has asked for President George W. Bush to come on the show, going so far as publish an invitation in a full page newspaper ad during the 2004 Republican National Convention.Stewart has interviewed celebrities like Bruce Willis, Ice Cube, The Rock, and recently interviewed the band The White Stripes who then did a live studio performance. Although The Daily Show is steeped in satire, its emphasis on political coverage and current events has led to many of its younger viewers regard it as their daily news source, especially during the 2004 presidential election. Stewart was even considered as a possible replacement for Dan Rather on the CBS Evening News by CBS executive Leslie Moonves, which owned Comedy Central before splitting into two companies just a few days ago.Although a comedian, Stewart can be serious at times. Notable was his appearance on the CNN show Crossfire in which he got into a debate with host Tucker Carlson over the state of television journalism. He accused Crossfire of polarizing politics and that it was hurting America, saying "It's not so much that it's bad, as it's hurting America [...] Stop, stop, stop, stop hurting America." He referred to Carlson and co-host Paul Begala as "partisan hacks", and said that Carlson was "as big a dick on [his] show as [he is] on any show".  Many believe this highly publicized criticizm led to the cancellation of Crossfire.The Daily Show has won seven Emmys and a Peabody Award for their coverage of the 2000 presidential election.The Academy Awards ceremony will be held on ABC this year on March 5th.It was reported by the BBC News service that Linda Smith, regular panelist on BBC Radio 4's The News Quiz, stand up comedian, satirist and writer, passed away from chronic ovarian cancer on Monday, February 27, 2006.  Ms. Smith died age 48 and is survived by her partner, Warren Lakin.Ms. Smith gained fame from her many roles on BBC television and radio.  During her career she built strong friendships with a number of colleagues.  Amongst these is her colleague and friend Jeremy Hardy who responded to the news of her passing saying, "She was our greatest living Englishwoman. She reminds me of Alan Bennett in that wonderful Yorkshire terminology, the exactitude."  Mr. Hardy has written a full tribute to Ms. Smith for the BBC website.A tribute edition of The News Quiz, presented by her fellow panelist Andy Hamilton, will be aired on Friday, March 3, 2006 on BBC Radio 4 at 6:30 p.m. (GMT), repeated the following Saturday at 12:30 - after this the show will be available for one week using BBC's Listen Again service.Comedian Johnny Vegas peeved talk show host Charlotte Church during his appearance. She slapped him, and shouted "Shut the fuck up", after he made numerous rude comments and stared down female audience members.  	 The comedian suggested Church looked tense, and offered the former smoker "have a cigarette." Church has appeared in a national anti-smoking campaign. 	 When Church commented that she and he sang karaoke together in a hotel owned by her mother, Vegas replied "Yes and I shagged your grandma too." 	 Mentioning his 2004 movie Sex Lives of the Potato Men had bad reviews, he replied "Well I listened to your album and it was shit." Her album, "Tissues and Issues", reached #5 on the UK music charts.The Charlotte Church Show has aired on Britain's Channel 4 since September 1, 2006.American comedian Stephen Colbert has won a NASA contest poll to determine the name for a new wing on the International Space Station.After using his Comedy Central show The Colbert Report to call on fans to vote in the contest, the write-in name "Colbert" topped the poll with 230,539 votes.NASA officials said they ultimately reserve the right to choose an appropriate name, but have said top vote-getters will receive "the most consideration". The final decision will be made in April.Almost 1.2 million total votes were cast in the contest, which ended Friday. "Colbert" received more than 40,000 more voters than the second place runner up, "Serenity", which was one of the choices NASA put forward.Colbert has mocked the NASA suggestion on The Colbert Report, saying, "Come on, Serenity? That's not a space module, that's a Glade plug-in."The contest rules say NASA has the right to choose a name "in accordance with the best interests of the agency." The rules also say, "Such name may not necessarily be one which is on the list of voted-on candidate names."Other modules on the space station are named Unity, Harmony and Destiny.NASA insiders have told Space.com if they choose not to name the module after the comedian, they may consider naming the station's new $19 million toilet "Colbert" instead.Colbert, who plays a narcissistic political pundit on his satirical show, has called on his fans (known as "The Colbert Nation") to help have other things named after him in the past.Among his other namesakes are Steagle Colbeagle the Eagle, the mascot of the Saginaw Spirit junior ice hockey team in Michigan; Stephen Jr., a bald eagle born at the San Francisco Zoo; Aptostichus stephencolberti, a species of trapdoor spider; Air Colbert, a Virgin America airplane; and AmeriCone Dream, a Ben & Jerry's ice cream flavor.On Saturday, April, 29, 2006, US President George Bush appeared alongside impersonator Steve Bridges to deliver a self-lampooning comedy act at the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner. The annual event is well known for its evening lineup of fun-filled theatrics, attended by politicians and people from the media and entertainment industries. In his double-act with Bridges, Bush sent up his reputation for delivering nonsense lines and making verbal gaffes (for which the word 'Bushism' has been coined).Bush talked about spreading his agenda "globally and around the world, as well as internationally", whilst Bridges, who delivered many of the more cutting lines, said, "How come I can't have dinner with the 36 percent of the people who like me?"  The President's pronunciation of the word "nuclear" and Dick Cheney's hunting accident were also mocked.The primary source for edgy political humor that Saturday night, however, occurred when rising star of The Colbert Report, Stephen Colbert, assumed the helm as critic. With the President sitting visibly within several feet, Colbert warmed up the act by sarcastically admiring the president for thinking "with his gut, and not the head". Colbert's character, which shares his name, is a based on right-wing news channel personalities. "Fox News gives you both sides of the story — the president's side and the vice president's side," he said. Colbert's jabs at the president and his administration, usually made from the Comedy Central studio in Manhattan, garnered nervous laughter from the Washington D.C. audience. Although visibly red-faced, Bush sat quietly as Colbert continued to dig deeper into what bloggers and pundits are now considering to be the unfriendliest presidential roast in WHCA history.Colbert didn't spare the White House correspondents, either: But, listen, let's review the rules. Here's how it works: the president makes decisions. He's the decider. The press secretary announces those decisions, and you people of the press type those decisions down. Make, announce, type. Just put 'em through a spell check and go home. Get to know your family again. Make love to your wife. Write that novel you got kicking around in your head. You know, the one about the intrepid Washington reporter with the courage to stand up to the administration. You know - fiction! – Stephen Colbert, White House Correspondents' Association DinnerSince the event, which was held at the Washington Hilton on Saturday night, the full 25 minute video and transcript have been circulating extensively via the Internet.Common Sense Advisory, Inc., an independent business globalization, internationalization, and localization and translation research and consulting firm, announces the release of its list of the top 20 language service providers (LSPs) and its estimate of the size of worldwide translation and software localization market. The list, which includes Lionbridge (LIOX) and L-3/Titan (LLL) is based on the firm’s Human Delivered Service Company (HDSC) Index, a sophisticated assessment model that evaluates the business fundamentals, market strength, and service offerings of companies that depend on people to produce most of their revenue. The ranking of translation companies reflects recent industry mergers and acquisitions including Lionbridge’s acquisition of Bowne Global Solutions, a unit of Bowne & Co, (BNE).Common Sense Advisory also estimates the current worldwide translation and localization market at US$ 8.8 billion, reaching a total of US$ 12 billion in 2010. “This figure is particularly relevant at a time where the market seems to be entering a new wave of consolidation,” comments analyst Renato Beninatto.Explains Common Sense Advisory founder and CEO, Donald A. DePalma, “Many language services companies want to get bigger. Our certification model lets us benchmark one company against comparable language services firms, against offshore providers providing a full range of engineering and localization offerings, and against the service firms that make up our own innovative HDSC Index. This information is valuable to any procurement department – not to mention to any LSP thinking about where it fits in the marketplace relative to its competitors.”Ranking of Top 20 Translation Companies is now available for free download.File:Bible braile.JPGThe Hong Kong Television and Entertainment Licensing Authority (TELA) has received 2,041 complaints within 3 days, calling for the Bible to be reclassified as "indecent", following a heated controversy sparked by the sex column of an university student newspaper, which was classified by the government's publication tribunal as "indecent". By 17 May, TELA decided not to submit the Bible to the tribunal. Two weeks ago, the Chinese university of Hong Kong's student newspaper sparked a public debate when it was found that they had asked readers if they fantasised about incest or bestiality, along with some soft sex stories and an unrelated abstract drawing about sex. Although there is no explicit description or pornographic photos, the paper was classified as "Category II: Indecent" by Obscene Articles Tribunal (OAT) on 14 May because it asked the question— "Have you fantasised about incest or bestiality?". This classification means that the student editors have breached the law by distributing the paper to the public, will have a criminal record, and risk a jail sentence.Since then, OAT's decision has been hotly contested among teachers, activists, commentators and scholars. Complaints about the Bible then immediately flooded in to the authorities, claiming that the Bible is "indecent" due to its textual descriptions of rape and incest. The accusation was first made by a web site truthbible.net which said the holy book is full of sexual and violent content and its "indecency" far exceeds that of the recent sex column published in the Chinese University's student newspaper. A webmaster of truthbible.net, who wishes to remain anonymous, said if the sex column of the student's newspaper is indecent because of public complaints, "there's no reasons not to judge the Bible as indecent" because of its sexual content.By May 17 (UTC+8), TELA had received 2,041 complaints on the indecency of the Bible, up from 200 in three days. By the same day, TELA announced it will not submit the Bible to the Obscene Articles Tribunal for classification. "The Bible is a religious text which is part of civilisation. It has been passed on from generation to generation. TELA considers that such longstanding religious texts or literature have not violated standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable members of the community."According to the regulations in Hong Kong, any books classified as "indecent" by the OAT can only be sold or distributed to people over 18. All such publications must be sealed in a wrapper with a statutory warning notice.The CUHK Student Journals editorial board stated that the Bible complaints are not related to them, and they had no prior knowledge of such a movement.The following article contains photographs of women's exposed breasts. Viewer discretion is advised.Today the "boobs on bikes" parade was held in Christchurch, New Zealand.The boobs on bikes parade happens in various centres around New Zealand and is designed to kick off, and promote the Erotica Expo.This parade caught less national media attention before the parade than the Auckland one last year as, unlike Auckland, there was no protest done by the city councillors.Tens of thousands of Colombians and Venezuelans attended a free concert Sunday, held on a bridge linking the two countries. It was organized by Grammy-winning rock artist Juanes to celebrate the end of the diplomatic crisis between Colombia, Venezuela, and Ecuador, and to further improve peaceful relations within the region.The "Peace Without Borders" concert was staged atop the Simón Bolívar bridge, which connects the Colombian town of Cúcuta with the Venezuelan town of San Antonio del Táchira. "It would have been much more practical and simple to do it in a city," Juanes told the Miami Herald, "but the border is a symbol of peace between all countries. And this message is for everyone, all the countries in Latin America and the U.S. as well."Concert goers gathered in a dried-up riverbed to hear music by many notable Hispanic performers, including Colombian singer Carlos Vives, Dominican musician Juan Luis Guerra, Spanish musicians Miguel Bosé and Alejandro Sanz, Venezuelan musician Ricardo montaner, and Ecuadorian singer Juan Fernando Velasco.Juanes said the artists were "super responsive" when invited to perform. "I think they all share my feelings: How can we use our music to support this, use our art for something important?" he said."This is a celebration of the unity between Ecuador, Venezuela and Colombia," Carlos Vives said on the stage. "We want our police and military officers to go home," he added, referring to the Colombian hostages held by leftist group FARC.FARC was the center of the recent diplomatic crisis, which began when the Colombian military conducted an air raid against the organization inside Ecuador territory. Venezuela sided with Ecuador in condemning Colombia for the raid, and they each moved troops to their respective borders. The crisis was ended when the nations' leaders shook hands at a summit."It's not that a song by Alejandro or Carlos is going to change people," Juanes said. "But music becomes an excuse to send a message, that we're all here together building peace, that we are here as citizens and this is what we want, and we have to be heard. I think the governments have to understand and listen. We don't want to get involved in conflicts between people."Colombian president Alvaro Uribe had planned to attend the concert, but canceled when Juanes' manager told him the show "was not to be a political event" and asked him not to come.The traditions of Bonfire Night peculiar to the Sussex area were once again observed in Lewes on November 4.Consistent with the town traditions in the East Sussex county of England, effigies of various figures were carried through the town, and later burnt. The effigies this year included George Bush, Condoleezza Rice (as Wonder Woman) and Crocodile Hunter Steve Irwin.As per tradition and local fame, effigies were carried through the town and burned on huge fires. These include The Pope, Guy Fawkes and other unpopular figures. One of this year's unfortunate guest appearances was also rendered as a hugely grotesque likeness of the U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. The unflattering effigy clutched a tattered U.S. flag in one hand, and a miniature Tony Blair in the other. Crowds shouted "Burn it!". Smaller scale effigies, and so called 'enemies of bonfire', were also represented. This year's enemies included British Transport Police, whose attitude and handling of Bonfire night is an issue of local contention. Transport police were quietly represented by a pig head wearing a police helmet.The event was not without incident. Six arrests occurred in respect of criminal damage and public order offences, but the event was less rowdy than in previous years and eras in the history of the Bonfire.Superintendent Cliff Parrot of the Sussex Police said, "The event passed safely and was a resounding success with fewer arrests than last year, People were well behaved and acted responsibly, which in turn allowed everyone else to enjoy the celebrations."The steep streets of the small town, located one hour south of London, were filled during the chilly winter evening with crowds carrying burning torches, with police, and with alcohol consumption accompanied by loud deafening bangs. The air was thick with woodsmoke.In addition to effigies, flaming crosses were carried in recognition of the town's 17Protestant Martyrs. These preceded elaborate costumed parades where participants dressed asVikings, Antique firemen, Mongol warriors, and Zulus (including for the first time at Lewes, a female chieftain). Arthurian Knights and pirates were also featured. The pirates towed a cannon which they fired and shocked the crowds.The traditional striped jerseys worn by various Bonfire Society members were also in evidence.Conductor Israel Yinon died yesterday after collapsing during a performance in Switzerland. The Israeli conductor was directing an orchestra in the city of Lucerne when he suddenly collapsed and fell head first off of the platform. No official cause of death has been announced. He was 59 years old. Yinon collapsed during the performance of German composer Richard Strauss's An Alpine Symphony. An audience member attended to him while others were asked to leave the Lucerne Culture and Convention Centre and musicians exited. Yinon's girlfriend was playing in the orchestra when he collapsed.  Yinnon was known for showcasing the works of composers killed in the Holocaust. He highlighted symphonies from those such as Pavel Haas and Viktor Ullmann. Through this he gained international recognition including his award of the German critics’ recording prize in 1993. He went on to conduct the BBC Symphony Orchestra and the Berlin Symphony Orchestra.Speaking about the work of those composers who became victims of the Holocaust, Yinnon was quoted as saying "Without the Second World War, new music would have sounded quite different."Despite his international success he never achieved similar critical acclaim in his home country of Israel. Speaking to the Ynet news website his cousin Yisrael Ganor said "In Germany, Austria, and the Czech Republic he was very successful with this material, whereas in Israel he was rarely invited [to conduct]. Once someone famous told him — I don’t remember if it was a musician or journalist — that they would only invite him if there was no one else, or if the budgetary constraints couldn't cover someone well known."Tributes have been paid to the conductor including one from the Jungen Philharmonie Zentralschweiz student orchestra. They said they lost "not only a highly regarded musical colleague and sensitive educator, but a big-hearted friend." Yinnon had conducted them in 2009 and 2012 concerts.Spaniard Alberto Contador of team Astana has won the 2009 Tour de France after crossing the line in a final time of 85:48:35 for the 21-stage grand tour. Andy Schleck from Luxembourg came in second place. Schleck, riding for Team Saxo Bank also won the maillot blanc for the young riders' classification.American Lance Armstrong of Astana claimed the final podium spot, 5:24 behind Contador. The seven-time Tour-winner returned from retirement after winning the 2005 Tour de France. Winning the final stage at Champs-Élysées in Paris, France, was Mark Cavendish in a time of 4:02:18. The British cyclist won six stages this year, topping his achievement of four stage wins last year.The points classification was won by Thor Hushovd of Norway with 280. The Cervélo TestTeam rider finished ahead of Team Columbia-HTC's Cavendish, despite the latter's multiple stage wins.The King of the Mountains winner is Italian Franco Pellizotti, riding for Liquigas, who also got the additional honor of being the most aggressive rider. Team Astana, with two men on the podium, won the team classification.A man was seriously injured yesterday after a stunt went wrong during a live game show in Germany. Samuel Koch, 23, suffered injuries to his neck and back after he failed to jump over a car being driven by his father on the show Wetten, dass..? (Wanna bet?). The show was halted after the accident for the first time in the show's history.A spokesperson at Dusseldorf University Hospital commented on Koch's condition. He said Koch was "in an extremely critical stage" and warned that he was showing "signs of paralysis".Koch was attempting to jump over five moving cars using spring-powered stilts known as "powerbocks". He jumped over the first three but hit the fourth vehicle and crashed to the floor.Several celebrities were due to perform on the show after the stunt had taken place. Canadian singer Justin Bieber was one of those due to appear. He cancelled his appearance after the accident and released a statement through his Twitter page. The singer said "some things are more important than putting on a show." He also sent his wishes to Koch saying, "Please pray for Samuel Koch and his family as we wait and hope for his health and safety."Wetten, dass..? has been running for 29 years and is shown several times each year. The show features members of the public performing stunts on which the celebrity guests predict the outcome. The show has been known as a family friendly show, however, a German newspaper has questioned whether the show is suitable for children after the accident.The Rheinische Post said, "Since Saturday evening, finally, parents have to think seriously about whether Wetten Dass…? represents an appropriate format for children. It was not really foreseeable that many children would be watching as a contestant sustained life-threatening injuries but there has always been an element of risk surrounding the program."The producers of the show have announced that the programme will continue to broadcast despite the accident. Thomas Bellut, the programme director of the television station, made the announcement ZDF. Bellut told a public radio station, "'Wetten, dass' will certainly continue." He did defend the show's safety standards saying, "We will boost our safety standards once again although we were always of the opinion that they could hardly be more stringent."Berlin's Neukoellner Opera House is causing a stir with its new production, The Yellow Princess.The story presented in the French opera, by Camille Saint-Saens, is of an artist "whose life is dictated by a love for drugs and Japan." As a result, the performers smoke cannabis joints on stage, and the theatre itself is encouraging the audience to join in.Artistic director Bernhard Glocksin says that the theatre is claiming the metaphorical "artistic licence", to excuse the actions of the actors and audience, which are against German law. Glocksin was quoted by Ananova as saying opera would be "improved with a few joints and some appetising lines", noting the production was partly an experiment, to see what they could "get away with.""Artistic licence" is at par to an "artistic liberty", where something is exaggerated or changed for the sake of the art itself. For example a visual artist painting a landscape might move a tree to another area of their work, for better balance, or a poet ignoring pentameter when writing a traditional sonnet.For the first time in over 45 years, Dutch operetta singer Johannes Heesters sings in his home town of Amersfoort today. Heesters is, at age 104, the oldest performing artist in the world. Despite his advanced age, he is still active in Germany and Austria both on stage and television.Heesters has been controversial since he moved to Germany in the 1930s. He continued to perform in Nazi Germany during the Second World War, and was accused of paying a visit to perform at the Dachau concentration camp. Nazi leader Adolf Hitler attended his shows more than once.Hostile attitudes toward Heesters did not ebb after the end of the war. In 1963 he was cast in a Dutch production of The Sound of Music as Captain von Trapp, but the Dutch audience boycotted the show. He went back to Germany, but is still a Dutch citizen.Heesters' biggest wish was to perform in Amersfoort once again. His past is however not forgotten, and there will be organised protest actions against Heesters in Amersfoort before, during and after his show. For security reasons the Amersfoort police will check visitors to the concert for dubious objects. Hein van Kasbergen, spokesman for the committee "Heesters Raus" ("Heesters, get out!" in German) says: "Heesters is like the inventor of the A-bomb: he has blood on his hands and with his shows he has extended the war.". "He kept singing for the Nazi regime, for the Wehrmacht, and he earned millions," said Piet Schouten, another representative of the committee. "We have a problem with that on behalf of all the victims.".According to researcher David Barnouw of Dutch Institute for War Documentation, Heesters was not a major war criminal, and there is no proof that he performed in the Dachau camp. "It is nonsense to suggest that there was a warm relationship between Heesters and Adolf Hitler," says Barnouw.In one of the most shocking changes in No. 1 in Hot 100 history, rapper Kanye West, who has been in the news this week because of his controversial views on the federal government’s reaction to the relief efforts of Hurricane Katrina, received a surge of radio airplay in the pop mainstream radio markets and topped the Billboard Hot 100 for the second time in his career as a performer. His “Gold Digger” featuring Jamie Foxx vaulted 19-1 on the chart, ending Mariah Carey’s 14 non-consecutive week reign with “We Belong Together”. “Together” drops to No. 4 on the Hot 100. The 19-1 rally makes it the fifth biggest gain to No. 1 in Hot 100 history. The song also gains a record 94-2 on Billboard’s Pop 100 chart kept out of the No. 1 on that chart by the Pussycat Dolls with “Don’t Cha”.Mariah Carey is still No. 2 with “Shake It Off”. “Shake” was widely expected to gain to the Hot 100 pole position this week. Mariah Carey was No. 1 all summer with “Together” dethroned only once before by American Idol winner Carrie Underwood with “Inside Your Heaven” on the July 2 chart.Missy Elliott’s “Lose Control” featuring Ciara and Fat Man Scoop gained 5-3 while “Don’t Cha” dropped to No. 5.Bow Wow’s “Like You” featuring Ciara gained 7-6 trading places with Rhianna’s “Pon de Replay”. The only other song gaining into the top-10 is Fall Out Boy’s “Sugar, We’re Going Down” rising 12-8. Bow Wow’s “Let Me Hold You” featuring Omarion fell 5-9 and Lifehouse’s “You and Me” rounded out the top-10 with a two position dip.New Zealand has been voted the coolest place in the world by United Kingdom brand: CoolBrands.Coolbrands is owned by a consultancy firm in the UK, called Superbrands. It started in 2001, CoolBrands is a way of telling how 'cool' a brand is. Superbrands defines "brands that have become extremely desirable among many style leaders and influencers. They have a magic about them, signifying that users have an exceptional sense of taste and style."George Hickton, chief executive of Tourism New Zealand, said: "This win is a vindication of the recent work we've put in to the UK market, with the Chelsea Flower Show and our 100% Pure New Zealand advertising campaign ensuring New Zealand stays top of mind with potential travellers.""It's very gratifying to see we are such a desirable destination, especially as this poll includes opinion leaders who can have an real influence on people's travel choices." says Mr Hickton. "this is the second award New Zealand has received in the UK this September, with Conde Nast Traveller magazine also voting New Zealand best destination this month."Editor of Condé Nast Traveler Magazine, Sarah Miller, called New Zealand a "point of authenticity." And professional nation brander, Wally Olin, said "New Zealand has been very, very clever. It has turned its disadvantages into advantages.""Reaping the benefits of its recent marketing campaign, New Zealand is apparently the hottest place to be," said the London News.650 brands were chosen by researchers which were then put before 23 judges and were made available for the public, of which 1,725 people participated in an online survey. Five percent of the original 650 made it to the finals, including Morocco, Maldive and Australia.New Zealand receives most of its tourists from Australia, closely followed by the UK.The top ten destinations included:New ZealandMoroccoFijiPragueAustraliaMaldivesAmsterdamBrightonBahamasBermudaThe Council of the European Union voted yesterday to extend the term of copyright on sound recordings by twenty years, from 50 years to 70, preventing a number of early recordings of 1960s rock musicians including The Beatles from entering the public domain. The 1962 hit "Love Me Do" would have entered the public domain in 2012 if this legislation had not been introduced. EU member states have to enact the copyright extension within two years.The news was welcomed by representatives of the recording industry and by some recording artists. Cliff Richard has campaigned for term extension. Mick Jagger from the Rolling Stones said the decision was "obviously advantageous" to performers, and Bjorn Ulvaeus from Abba welcomed the continued control over the group's recordings: "Now I won't have to see Abba being used in a TV commercial". Geoff Taylor from the British Phonographic Industry said "[a]n exceptional period of British musical genius was about to lose its protection. As a matter of principle, it is right that our musicians should benefit from their creativity during their lifetimes, and that they should not be disadvantaged compared to musicians in other countries."Extension of the copyright term also has critics. Jim Killock, from the British digital rights advocacy group the Open Rights Group (ORG), said the move "puts money into the pockets of big labels" but will be "unlikely to benefit smaller artists and it will mean that a lot of sound recordings that are out of print will stay out of print". Singer Sandie Shaw, of the Featured Artists' Coalition, said the move would be "extremely good news for record companies and collection agencies, but bad news for artists" and would lead to artists having "20 more years in servitude to contracts that are no longer appropriate to a digital age".The extension to 70 years is less than that EU Commissioner Charlie McCreevy proposed in 2008. At that time, Wikinews interviewed Eddan Katz of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and Becky Hogge, then Executive Director of ORG, in Brussels. The two organisations were gathering like-minded groups to oppose harmonisation with the US's 95-year term. Characterising the sought extension as "Cliff Richard's pension", Hogge asserted, "[w]hat you've got at the end of the day with copyright term extension is basically [...] rent seeking by special interest groups lobbying governments to change the law in order that they may economically gain directly."Two reviews of intellectual property rights in Britain have concluded it would not be economically beneficial to extend copyright terms on sound recordings. The Gowers Review of Intellectual Property in 2006 concluded extension of the copyright term would "negatively impact upon consumers and industry". The Hargreaves Review of Intellectual Property and Growth in 2011 concluded it would be "economically detrimental". A study conducted by Bournemouth University's Center for Intellectual Property Policy and Management concluded 72% of the economic benefits of the term extension would go to record labels, with 28% going to artists, only 4% of which are going to less successful artists.On November 6, 2005, thousands of puzzle lovers from around the country swarmed Coral Gables, Florida, USA, with the hopes of being the first to solve a series of interactive riddles and win a weeklong resort vacation for four, as part of a free event called 'The Herald Hunt.'  Billed as an 'urban puzzle safari', the Herald Hunt was designed by Dave Barry and Tom Shroder, and produced by The Miami Herald newspaper.The Sunday issue of the Miami Herald included a special Hunt section which listed over eighty numbered clues.  But only five of the clues were legitimate; the rest were red herrings.  Participants roamed the city in search of five numbers that would reveal the identity of the genuine clues from the newspaper.  Cryptic hints were embedded in unusual places:  street trolleys bearing strange messages, speakers blaring loud music, actors on the sidewalk making hand gestures, and even in the songs sung by a barbershop quartet in front of City Hall.The five correct clues, when combined with a final clue announced at 3pm, yielded a phone number.  Teams that correctly deduced and called the phone number heard a message containing one final puzzle that needed to be solved in order to win the prize.The members of this year's winning team were Robin and Cary Ginter, Steve Friedland, Brian O'Neil, and Mark Engelberg.  They were the first team to decode the phone message and complete the final task.Engelberg and O'Neil flew in from across the country to attend the Hunt with their friends who are local to the area.  O'Neil explained, "There's no other event I'm aware of that's quite like the Herald Hunt.  There are other puzzle competitions, but nothing on this kind of large scale."This is Engelberg's and Friedland's third win, and a second-time win for the other members of the team.  When asked to explain the secret of their success, Engelberg said that teamwork was key. "We've gotten very good at working together," he said.According to The Times, Michael Jackson was the victim of a homicide. The Los Angeles County Coroner has concluded Jackson died from a lethal overdose of sedatives. It has been revealed that Jackson was probably killed by an overdose of propofol. His doctor, Conrad Murray, is under investigation for manslaughter.Murray told the Los Angeles Police Department that for the six weeks prior to the singer's death he had administered a 50 milligram dose of the drug every night to help Jackson to sleep. He had begun to cut back on the dose after fearing Jackson was becoming addicted and for two days before the death gave him only lorazepam and midazolam.On the day of his death, Murray said, he injected Jackson with lorazepam, then administered midazolam amongst other drugs. Finally, he gave in to Jackson's insistence upon propofol, giving him 25 milligrams before going to the toilet. Upon his return, Jackson was no longer breathing. Investigators have not been able to trace any records of propofol purchases by the doctor. It is also reported that another doctor had previously been approached by Jackson and asked to sell him the drug, but that doctor refused.Salil Ankola, who was one of the celebrities participating in the reality TV-show Bigg Boss, which is said to be an adopted version of the Big Brother series from the UK; had to leave the house of Bigg Boss following a ruling from the High Court of Maharashtra.Ankola's trouble began when Balaji Telefilms Ltd., dragged him to the court for appearing in a rival production house. He had signed up a contract with this production house in the month of August, and was expected to abide by the contract for the next 12 months. However, he shot through the months of September and October and did not show up in November. The High Court ordered that until the arbitration in this matter is pending, the actor cannot act, endorse, advertise or do voice-overs for production houses that compete with Balaji.File:PolanskiIFFKV.jpgSuperior Court Judge Peter Espinoza has today rejected a motion by lawyers for French film director Roman Polanski to have charges of unlawful sex with a child dismissed.In 1977, Polanski was arrested charged with sodomy, sexual assault and rape of a 13-year-old girl at Jack Nicholson's house in California, United States.Polanski agreed to plead guilty to unlawful sex with a child, often called statutory rape, in exchange for having the more serious charges dropped.However, in 1978, before his sentencing, Polanski fled the United States. He has since been a fugitive and faces arrest if he sets foot on US soil. France refuses to extradite him.Polanski's lawyers argued that there were irregularities and misconduct in the original handling of the case. While the Judge agreed, he rejected the notion that the charges should be dismissed on the grounds that Polanski cannot challenge the ruling while on the run as a fugitive.A recent revelation by American actor John Travolta in court testimony during an ongoing extortion case in The Bahamas that his late son Jett suffered from autism, has stirred debate and controversy over the disease. News media and critics have questioned whether Travolta and his wife Kelly Preston should have acknowledged Jett's illness sooner. In response to comments made Tuesday about the recent events on the ABC television program The View, the National Autism Association issued a press release stating they "very much support the Travolta family and all families affected by autism".Travolta's testimony last week admitting that his son was autistic was the first time he had stated as much publicly; previously he and his wife had only said Jett had experienced Kawasaki syndrome. Travolta's son Jett died in January 2009 at the age of 16 after experiencing a seizure. "My son was autistic and suffered from seizure disorder. Every five to ten days he suffered seizures which lasted 45 seconds to a minute," said Travolta in his court testimony on September 22. A piece in iVillage noted Travolta had been pressured for years to speak out publicly about his son Jett's autism. iVillage cited a 2007 piece in the New York Post, where a source commented "He could do so much good for autism awareness if he would just come forward."News media and critics have suggested that Travolta and his wife's allegiance to Scientology was behind their rationale for not previously acknowledging that Jett was autistic. The Church of Scientology opposes psychiatry and does not recognize autism as an affliction. Church representative Tommy Davis had told MSNBC that "The Church of Scientology has no position on autism," however a Scientology-founded organization the Citizens Commission On Human Rights stated to the United States Senate in 2008: "The Citizens Commission on Human Rights believes that there is no known medical treatment for autism except off-label drugs."Former Scientologists Tory Christman and Claire Headley were interviewed about the recent revelation by Travolta for The Daily Beast, and commented on its implications. Christman suffers from epilepsy, a condition which also causes seizures. She told The Daily Beast that the Church of Scientology pressured her to go off of her seizure medications, and instead take "vitamins and supplements". After doing so, Christman experienced a grand mal seizure and knocked out two of her teeth in the bathroom. Headley, who has filed a lawsuit against Scientology for labor-law violations, told The Daily Beast that the only techniques that Scientology would have sanctioned to help Jett would have been internal procedures known as "assists and objective processing". Church representative Tommy Davis responded to The Daily Beast: "This religion is utterly and completely about helping. It’s just insane to think that Scientology would be a factor in somebody not getting all the help they need."ABC News reported Tuesday that the president of the National Autism Association (NAA), Wendy Fournier, stated those that had experience with autism awareness had previously recognized signs from media video that Jett Travolta suffered from the disease. Fournier commented: "It didn't really come as a surprise for people. But I've read some things that really bother me - basically that they should have come forward sooner. Everybody handles autism in the best way that they can and for whatever personal reasons they had, they chose not to make it public. Just because you have a child with autism and you're a celebrity, it does not automatically mandate you to be a spokesperson for the disorder." Another official from the autism community, the national manager for Talk About Curing, Autism Rebecca Estepp, said to ABC News: "The Travoltas are suffering right now from a tragedy that could affect anyone. ... We've heard of several children passing away with seizures lately." On Tuesday's edition of the ABC television program The View, co-host Whoopi Goldberg commented on the statements made by the representative of the National Autism Association to ABC News about Travolta's admission of his son's autism. "Since John Travolta has testified his son Jett was autistic in this blackmail case, the National Autism Association has come out saying they didn't expect him to be a celebrity spokesperson for autism, but he should have come forward sooner," said Goldberg. The View co-hosts proceeded to discuss whether Travolta should have publicly revealed his son's ailment earlier, and the impact of labels in society and the media. Sherri Shepherd commented on the negative impact of labeling individuals, and guest-host Gloria Estefan remarked: "I don't like labels, period." "I guess what is stunning to me is that anyone has the right to expect you to say anything about your family," said Goldberg. "Isn't it partly that he's a Scientologist and that there's a reputation that Scientologists don't believe in diseases of certain kinds?" asked co-host Joy Behar. Goldberg asserted that it was the individual's decision whether or not to speak publicly about such an issue. Shepherd pointed out that celebrity actress Jenny McCarthy has spoken out publicly about autism, which her son suffers from, and noted that her voice has helped to focus public attention on the disease. Behar questioned Travolta's earlier statements that his son had Kawasaki disease: "The thing about Travolta though - he called it Kawasaki disease. Did he know that it was autism, and just said it was Kawasaki - was he making that up? I don't know." Goldberg said: "This is not the way to get people to come out and say, 'You know what, I'm going to take a stand.' It's just, it's none of your business until somebody wants to make it your business, but that's just me.After the program's broadcast, the National Autism Association came out with a press release Tuesday, in response to statements made on The View. "The National Autism Association stated today that they very much support the Travolta family and all families affected by autism", said the press release. The NAA clarified that the statement made to ABC News by its president Wendy Fournier was the opposite position of that quoted by Goldberg, asserting that it was taken out of context. "I agree with Ms. Goldberg, the Travoltas, like any other family struggling with the illness of their child, are entitled to their privacy. I have read hurtful, judgmental comments from individuals as well as organizations, suggesting that that the Travolta family owed it to the autism community to use their celebrity to bring awareness to the disorder. I couldn't disagree more," said Fournier.The organization's board chair, Lori McIlwain, commented in the press release: "NAA is here to support families and fellow parents. This debate does not serve anyone. As a nation, we need to instead focus on helping those affected by autism, which now affects 1 in 100 children." According to the release, the organization was founded in 2003, and is one of the largest in the United States. The NAA's mission includes educated families about autism and neurological disorders.Cleveland, Ohio-based University Hospitals Case Medical Center child and adolescent psychiatrist Dr. Marcie Hall said that according to studies one fourth of autistic children may concurrently have seizure disorder. The director of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Management Center at New York City's Montefiore Medical Center, Dr. Shlomo Shinnar, stated: "In neurologically-normal children with epilepsy, the risk of death is actually no different than for children without seizures."Tonight, many of the year's most critically acclaimed films vie for Oscars, including Best Picture nominees There Will Be Blood, No Country for Old Men, Juno, Michael Clayton, and Atonement.Among the favorites are No Country for Old Men and There Will Be Blood, each with 8 nominations, and Atonement and Michael Clayton, each with 7 nominations.  All four films are nominees for the Best Picture award, along with breakout hit Juno.The telecast finished tonight, in eastern standard time; it often goes past midnight.Last week, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) held a press conference on the National Mall in Washington, DC, warning consumers of the dangers of fireworks, and advising them of safe handling. They were joined by representatives from the the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF); Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP); and other national safety agencies. Fireworks are often used to celebrate the United States' July 4, 1776 independence from Great Britain. The Fourth of July is a time when many US families get together to celebrate, by holding reunions, picnics, barbecues, baseball games and firework displays; however, celebrations often turn sour due to injury or even death, caused by the mishandling of fireworks. In 2009, nearly 19,000 fireworks-related injuries were treated in hospitals, doctors' offices and clinics all over the country. Around 9,000 of those were to children aged under 18, and 6,000 occurred during the 30 days surrounding Independence Day.CPSC chairman, Inez Tenenbaum, said that burns and cuts to limbs, the face and head were the most common injuries, and over half of them were due to firecrackers, rockets and sparklers. The agencies were joined at the news conference by Jason Henderson, who was injured in 2007 after building home-made fireworks. He had found instructions online detailing how to build M-80-style fireworks, and after purchasing the chemicals, began assembling them; however, the mixture exploded which resulted in him losing both hands and his right eye, and shrapnel caused multiple lacerations and puncture wounds to his entire body. "Don't be the show, go and enjoy the show. I want to get people to move away from putting on their own displays and just go and enjoy the free shows. I mean they are free," Henderson said. "You might as well take advantage of them while they are there. You can spend time with your family instead of being the one to light them and taking that risk." Henderson also appears in a public-service announcement recently released by the ATF to YouTube, that shows how he has now been fitted with bionic arms.Agencies recommend attending community fireworks shows held by city or county officials, which are held in a more controlled and professional environment. Additionally, many jurisdictions outlaw either all fireworks, or certain types, such as rockets and firecrackers.Fireworks increase demands on fire departments and personnel at this time of year, acting U.S. Fire Administrator Glenn Gaines noted. "Four firefighters [have been killed] as a result of illegal fireworks. Calls to EMS [Emergency Medical Services] and fire departments increased as individuals continue to be injured and burned." The dry weather and heat that many areas are experiencing also elevate the risk of brush and structure fires. The National Fire Protection Association said that over 22,500 fires started from fireworks in 2008.Consumers who do purchase fireworks are encouraged to follow the following common sense rules: always read and follow directions; always supervise older children and teenagers if they are permitted to use fireworks; never allow young children to play with or ignite fireworks, child-friendly sparklers and "party-poppers" are a fun and safe alternative for them; keep animals inside or well away from the fireworks, the noise will often scare them; never light any fireworks inside buildings; light fireworks on a smooth, flat surface away from houses, dry leaves, and flammable materials; never ignite fireworks in metal or glass containers; light one firework at a time; move away to a safe distance immediately after lighting a firework; never return to a firework that has not ignited properly; never throw fireworks at another person, animal, or property; do not consume alcohol when using fireworks; keep a bucket of water or a hose in close proximity in case of fire, dispose of use fireworks in the bucket of water; buy from reliable dealers; only use legal fireworks; and follow the laws of your jurisdiction.Craig Newmark, the founder of craigslist.org, is fascinated with the idea of community journalism.According to the Associated Press, Newmark is interested in an 'open source' approach to journalism, allowing a huge team of volunteer journalists to stand up to their mainstream counterparts. By acting as news gatherers, writers, and desk editors, Newmark envisions the rise of a regularly updated "trustworthy" outlet that can inform voters ahead of the United States midterm elections in 2006.Although plans are currently only on the horizon, Newmark has discussed project ideas with Dan Gillmor, a former technology columnist at the San Jose Mercury News and founder of Grassroots Media Inc., and Jeff Jarvis, a former critic for TV Guide and People. Newmark explained: "People are looking for attitude and guts in reporting not full-on gonzo journalism, but hey, tell us what you think."The collaborative approach to news reporting that Newmark describes is already, in one way, very much alive today in the form of Wikinews: volunteer writers from around the globe can contribute articles, gather news, fact check and review each other's work. A spokesperson for craigslist confirmed that Newmark is "very familiar" with Wikipedia, the sister project to Wikinews.Confirming that his advisers had been in contact with the Wikimedia Foundation, Newmark himself told us earlier today: "I'm very aware of Wikinews, and I really like the idea."Fan Expo Canada ran in Toronto last weekend, from Thursday to Sunday, spread over both multi-storey buildings at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre. The event is one of North America's largest pop culture events, with panels, product unveilings, screenings, an artists' alley, and celebrity autographs.Featured programming included reunions of cast members from 2001: A Space Odyssey, Back to the Future, Xena: Warrior Princess, and Degrassi: The Next Generation. Other cast panels included Star Trek Discovery, Adventure Time, Steven Universe, and Grand Theft Auto. Attendees could have their portfolios reviewed by staff from Marvel and DC Comics, speed date others of the same sexuality, or try a Doctor Who escape room.The end-of-summer event is one of three held in Toronto by convention firm Informa, a list that also includes the springtime Toronto Comic Con.Wikinews was there, and captured some of the cosplay creativity and booths full of products new and old.Wikinews interviewed the creator of a parody website satirizing American political commentator Glenn Beck, about his thoughts after prevailing in a domain name dispute brought by Beck before the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland. Florida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics "to spread lies and misinformation". Eiland-Hall was represented in the case by free speech lawyer Marc Randazza.Wikinews interviewed Randazza for the article "US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza discusses Glenn Beck parody", and previously reported on the Beck v. Eiland-Hall case in articles, "US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck",  "Satirical website criticizes Glenn Beck for 'hypocritical' attempts to silence free speech", and "Glenn Beck loses domain name case over parody website".On Halloween night, October 31, during a 2-hour long live episode of NBC show Phenomenon, famed magician Criss Angel told Uri Geller and Jim Callahan, "I will give you a million dollars of my personal money right now if either one of you can tell me specific details of what’s in [this envelope] right now." While Geller ignored Angel's challenge, Callahan started to confront Angel in a hostile manner, as host Tim Vincent held him back and Geller held Angel back.Previously Angel made it clear that he will not "tolerate" fellow magicians who try to pass their illusions off as paranormal. For example, on the day before the Halloween special, Angel told Larry King, "No one has the ability, that I'm aware of, to do anything supernatural, psychic, talk to the dead. And that was what I said I was going to do with Phenomenon. If somebody goes on that show and claims to have supernatural psychic ability, I'm going to bust them live and on television."In the midst of the confrontation, the TV show cut to a commercial break. Vincent said the show was not "Jerry Springer." When the last contestant appeared Angel said it was "a hell of a lot more entertaining than the previous act." The following week Callahan was voted off the show by the TV audience.James Randi, a former magician who had previously worked with Angel and a long standing critic of Geller and psychics, wrote of the incident, "Criss Angel said, in his rather lengthy comments, '[Callahan] demonstrated something that is unexplainable to some' — though to whom that might have applied, I cannot fathom — and Criss is beginning to sound very much like that chap James Randi, tossing about a million-dollar challenge."This is not the first time that Uri Geller has been challenged by a professional magician. Thirty years ago, during a French television show called Droit de réponse, Gerard Majax demonstred that all "so called" powers shown previously during the show by Geller could be reproduced by a magician even more convincingly than Geller.The Television Critics Association (TCA) announced the winners of its annual awards for best in television programming June 23 in Beverly Hills, California. The TCA is made up of approximately 200 television writers and columnists in the U.S. and Canada.The awards, except for the Heritage Award and Lifetime Achievement Award, were for outstanding programs first broadcast in the United states between June 2004 and May 2005. ABC's Desperate Housewives was named Program of the year, while the Network's Lost was named as best dramatic program.The critics' choice for best comedy series was Fox's Arrested Development. Awards for acting and performance went to Hugh Laurie in Fox's House for best dramatic performance while best comedic performance honors went to Jon Stewart of Comedy Central's The Daily Show with Jon Stewart. The TCA awarded American comedian Bob Newhart with its Lifetime Achievement Award. The Heritage award for program "that has transcended its medium to profoundly impact on society or culture" was presented to ABC late night news program, Nightline.Steve Irwin, the environmentalist and star of The Crocodile Hunter, died on Monday after an accident with a stingray near Cairns, Queensland in Australia, according to local Australian media. He was 44.Irwin was filming an underwater documentary for his daughter's television show, by Port Douglas, Queensland around 11 a.m. Eastern Australian Time (0100 UTC) when he was struck by a stingray barb in the chest. While the stingray barb had penetrated the left side of his chest, the exact cause of death is still officially unknown. Steve Edmondson, a local diving operator, listed cardiac arrest from the injury as a possibility.John Stainton, producer of Steve Irwin's Film Company, disclosed the information. "Steve decided to shoot a couple of segments for a new TV show that he's doing with his daughter Bindi and, with the cameramen, went out on to the reef at Batt Reef to do a little segment on stingrays. He came over the top of the stingray... and the stingray's barb went up and went into his chest and put a hole into his heart."Ross Coleman of the University of Sydney Institute of Marine Science said it was rare for someone to die from contact with a stingray barb, and that he does not remember hearing of any similar incidents. He says that stingrays are "dangerous if provoked," and "as a recreational diving instructor you hear of people getting injured by standing on them ... but they rarely die."The Queensland Ambulance Service said a call was received about 11 a.m. local time on Monday and an emergency services helicopter was flown to a boat on Batt Reef. Irwin was dead before medical attention arrived, and was pronounced dead at the scene.Irwin's body is being flown to a morgue in Cairns where he will remain until he is formally identified.He is survived by his wife Terri, who was believed to be exploring Cradle Mountain in Tasmania, as well as his children Bindi Sue, age 8, and Bob, age 2. They have been notified of Irwin's death.Quick crosswords for 2005(solutions are on following days):Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)If you like, you can follow the instructions on Crosswords/Across Lite to download and solve today's crossword on your computer. Today's crossword in Across Lite TEXT format (warning - contains answers!).< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.==Quick crosswordFeel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Competition: See tomorrow's crossword for details.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.< 2005 crosswordsQuick crosswords for January (solutions are on following days):27 January 200528 January 200529 January 200530 January 200531 January 2005> February crosswordsFeel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword (Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people, print it out and fill it in at you own leisure!)< Yesterday's crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.Paul Hester, drummer for the popular 1980s band "Crowded House", was found dead in a Melbourne park Saturday.An ambulance service spokeswoman told the Sydney Morning Herald that ambulance officers arrived at Elsternwick Park on Saturday afternoon. They reported Hester had "attempted suicide" and suffered "strangulation". The 46-year-old-father-of-two was last seen walking his two dogs in the popular suburban park near his home on Friday evening.Hester had a history with bouts of depression, but seemed to be coping well following eight years of therapy. Friends told the The Daily Telegraph, however, that he suffered a recent turmoil in his love life. Firstly, there was the end of his romance with long-time partner and mother of his two daughters, and then a parting last December with New Zealand singer Kashan, whom he planned to wed in May. There appeared to be no indication he was distressed when he left the house to walk his dogs.Hester, from Melbourne, Australia, was a founding member of the internationally popular group Crowded House. Previously, he was in the band "Split Enz" with Crowded House leader Neil Finn during the early 1980s. He quit Crowded House in 1994, two years before the band broke up, and became a television personality in Australia with his own prime-time show, then working mostly as a freelance drummer [e.g. for Tarmac Adam]. He had his own music chat show, Hessie's Shed, on Australian TV in the late 1990s, and also had a recurring role as Paul the Cook on the children's program The Wiggles. He also hosted the successful Australian cable music channel MAX's Sessions series.Tom Cruise: An Unauthorized Biography, a biography of actor Tom Cruise written by journalist Andrew Morton, was released in the United States yesterday amidst the potential for a US$100 million lawsuit against its publisher, St. Martin's Press.  The book will not be published in Australia, Britain, and New Zealand due to strict libel laws in those countries.  Morton had previously written the biography of Diana, Princess of Wales, Diana: Her True Story.  The book has reached number nine on Amazon.com's list of top sellers.The book describes Cruise as the No. 2 leader of the Church of Scientology, blames Scientologists for the breakup of Cruise and actress Nicole Kidman, and states that Cruise's latest mission is to recruit David Beckham and wife Victoria into Scientology.  The book also describes how some Scientology followers thought that Cruise's wife Katie Holmes was impregnated with frozen sperm from L. Ron Hubbard, founder of Scientology, and Morton compares the situation to Rosemary's Baby "In her more reflective moments, Katie might have felt as if she were in the middle of a real-life version of the horror movie ‘Rosemary’s Baby,’ in which an unsuspecting young woman is impregnated with the devil’s child." A 15-page statement released by the Church of Scientology denied Morton's assertions of Cruise's No. 2 standing within the organization.  In the statement the Church of Scientology claims that Morton did not respond to requests for an interview "The Church of Scientology requested to be interviewed or be presented with any allegations so we could respond. Morton refused despite our insistence in offering our cooperation."  The Church of Scientology also specifically responded to the claims regarding Hubbard's frozen sperm: "Was Katie impregnated by L. Ron Hubbard's frozen sperm? ... As distasteful as it is to have to say it, Mr. Hubbard's sperm was never frozen."  According to the AFP, "the Church of Scientology is reportedly considering legal action against US publishers St Martin's Press."  The Church of Scientology's general counsel, Eliot Abelson, discussed the potential for litigation in an interview with the Mail on Sunday "We are seriously considering legal action and will wait to see the public reaction."  Cruise's attorney Bertram Fields expressed thanks for the strict libel laws in Britain "It's not being published in England. The American publishers criticised the libel laws in Britain because they require an author to tell the truth. Well, thank God for the British libel laws."  New York's Daily News has reported that the Church of Scientology and lawyers for Cruise are planning a US$100 million lawsuit over the book's publication.  Rogers & Cowan, the public relations agency that represents Cruise, issued a statement which criticized Morton for not interviewing "one person who has known or worked with Tom" in the past twenty-five years.The Church of Scientology statement also pointed out that the book is not being published in Australia, Britain and New Zealand due to the countries' strict libel laws.  Australia-based companies Pan Macmillan Australia and retailer Dymocks Booksellers decided not to stock copies of the book on their shelves, due to fears of potential defamation actions against them.  A spokesperson for Pan Macmillan Australia stated that they had not received threats from Cruise's representatives or from Scientologists, but that their attorneys had advised them not to sell the book.  Don Grover, chief executive for Dymocks Group stated after legal advice their company had decided to "play it safe" - though neither their lawyers or publishers had read the book itself.  A representative of MacMillan stated that the book would not be published in New Zealand, but would make no further comment on the matter.  A Dymocks New Zealand representative explained that it was possible that the book could be published by their company in New Zealand, but would have to look into it further "The US has different legislation than New Zealand and Australia. There are some issues with the book having legal questions asked and we would need those tidied up before we stock it."Morton spent two years doing research for the book, and spoke with individuals who knew Cruise personally, and executives within the Church of Scientology.  Morton stated that some of these executives emailed him, confirming the accuracy of material within the book.  Morton described the desire for anonymity by some of the sources in the book "Some people, obviously, will not go on the record to talk about Tom Cruise because they’re scared of him."In an interview on The Today Show with Meredith Vieira, Morton defended his work and responded to the statement from the Church of Scientology.  Morton stated that it was unusual for a church to respond in such a way if Cruise is simply an ordinary member, asking "How many churches support one parishioner — a lowly parishioner — that way?"  Morton described the response as an attack "Their policy is always to attack the attacker. Their tactic is to denigrate those who seek to talk about it." He told Vieria that he had attempted to contact the head of the Church of Scientology, David Miscavige, but "They refused it. I formally asked for it. I was instructed to ask for it by the publisher’s attorneys, and so what they’re saying is nonsense."  Morton explained his motivation for writing the book "He's no longer just an actor or producer, but a powerful advocate for a cult that's out to expand, especially in Europe."  Morton stated that his interest was piqued after Cruise jumped on Oprah's couch during a May 23, 2005 appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show, and got into a heated debate with Matt Lauer about his beliefs regarding psychiatry during a June 24, 2005 appearance on The Today Show.The CTV Television Network has acquired the rights to The Hockey Theme. Composed by Dolores Claman, The Hockey Theme was the theme song of Hockey Night in Canada, one of the most popular Canadian television programs, since 1968.The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's (CBC) latest license to broadcast The Hockey Theme had expired at the conclusion of the latest NHL season. On June 6, negotiations between Claman and CBC broke down, with the CBC announcing that a deal could not be reached. The CBC offered to resume negotiation with a mediator today. However, by mid-afternoon today, Claman's representatives announced that they had sold the rights to CTV.CTV will use this song in its broadcasts of National Hockey League (NHL) games on The Sports Network (TSN) and Réseau des sports (RDS), as well as during the 2010 Winter Olympics.Pedro Pablo Perez, a Cuban cyclist who had qualified for the Olympics in Beijing, will miss the event after a car crash left him in a coma with brain trauma.Perez is receiving treatment at the Abel Santamaria hospital, in the province of Pinar del Rio where the accident took place. Details are unclear, but it is known Perez was driving the car at the time when the crash occurred in San Cristobal. It has not been reported by Cuban media if anyone else was in the car, or if other vehicles were involved, but it is known his wife, 2004 world scratch cycling champion Yoanka Gonzalez, was not present. He received "cerebral ... lacerations and remains in a coma" according to state newspaper Granma.Perez, 31, has won the Tour of Cuba five times, competed in the 2000 Sydney Games and received medals at the 1999 and 2003 Pan American Games.The problem becomes one of where? Are we posting US movies? England? Germany? Japan? Where in the States? Major releases? 2 theater releases? Lyellin 02:24, 10 Dec 2004 (UTC)That's a good point. I think we should do it for each different language version. So that means we should have in this version the ones that are coming out in the US.- B-101 12:13, 10 Dec 2004 (UTC)Well, what about Britain? Ireland? Scotland? Australia? New Zealand? Which part of hte US? I like the idea- I just see it as a rather large undertaking while we are still working on getting regular news reporting set up. Lyellin 19:18, 10 Dec 2004 (UTC)Let's just give this issue a bit of time. I think it's a good idea to have movie releases.- B-101 20:41, 10 Dec 2004 (UTC)I agree- I put it in the same line as opinion articles... a worthy thing to do, once some of the basic news stuff is ironed out. Lyellin 20:57, 10 Dec 2004 (UTC)There aren't so many movies being released every week such that a simple list would be tedious. Although I rarely attend the movies myself, I closely follow the movie listings each week so I can update my personal list of which movies to buy on DVD when they are later released in that format.I would find it rather useful to have such a listing available on Wikinews.Anyways, rather than simply talk about this, I will go ahead and start the listing for the United States box office. (I'll start listings for video games and DVDs next). If others want to follow my example for other countries, they are welcome to do so.If others have more high brow taste and wish to list theatre, symphonies, ballet, etc., they are also welcome to do so as well. — DV 00:59, 20 Dec 2004 (UTC)Visual art, fabric art, photography, performance, dance, virtual reality, and music were all the subject of sessions at Furnal Equinox 2018, a conference held from March 16 to 18 at Toronto's Westin Harbour Castle. Canada's largest furry convention by attendance, the annual event offers dozens of subculture-specific programs.The convention's communications and public relations coordinator for the event, Ronnie, describes furries as "people that enjoy arts and culture centred around animals and animal-themed topics, essentially. Furnal Equinox in particular, we like to celebrate in a very visual and very [...] artistic nature, where we have lots of arts and performances and crafts that go on, and people celebrate with lots of socialisation involved."Of the attendees, Ronnie told Wikinews "they come from all walks of life. They are people of all ages, sizes, all sorts of backgrounds, and they come together under one mutual interest, which is their love for animal culture.""Programming at Furnal Equinox involves[...] a lot of informational panels, so you can find out about topics from art and how to draw, or how to visually incorporate different elements into your artworks. You can also find panels that teach you how to write better, be a better fiction author for example," explained the event representative.At one panel Wikinews attended, members of its all-volunteer organising committee spoke of the year-long process of planning the event, and their reasons for committing such a significant amount of their time. Said one panelist, "if you're happy, we're happy."				The largest hub of activity at the convention was a dealer's room; nicknamed the "Dealer's Den", giving it an anthropomorphic twist. Vendors were selling original visual art, wearables like faux fur tails or ears, or things like jewellery or soap with motifs that would interest attendees.The back area of the room was dedicated to a charity auction, with proceeds benefiting Happily Ever Esther Farm Sanctuary. According to the convention website, the charity is "dedicated to rescuing abused, neglected, and abandoned farmed animals. Their goal is to provide a safe, life-long home for all of their residents, and to educate the public about the true nature of farmed animals through tours, volunteer programs, and community outreach."Split into groups, some attendees played "Fursuit Games" in front of an audience, like trying to toss a ball into a garbage can. The activity made harder, of course, by the limited dexterity and vision the most of the costumes entail.Blogger George Vaccaro is a customer from the US who apparently purchased wireless network connection from Verizon, thinking that he was getting a good deal. Instead, he says he was charged about 71 dollars instead of 71 cents: 100 times more than what his bill should have been at the rate quoted. When he called the Verizon customer service, he said he also found out that several Verizon representatives think 0.002 cents is equal to 0.002 dollars. According to the phone conversation recording he posted to his blog, Vaccaro also posted on his blog the text of what he said was an e-mail reply from a Verizon Wireless customer service representative on December 8, stating:Beginning May 28, 2005, ultra-marathon cyclist Arvid Loewen cycled 7,000 km in 30 days across Canada raising money and awareness for an orphanage, MCF, in Kenya. Cycling 240 km a day, Arvid began in White Rock, British Columbia, and finished on June 26 in Halifax, Nova Scotia. MCF, or Mully Children's Family, was founded by Charles Mulli, a man who was abandoned on the streets in Kenya at the age of six. He fought through life on the streets and subsequently became wealthy. He sold all his wealth and businesses and began an orphanage in his own home. That orphanage is now home to over 800 children. Loewen, 48, cycled 12-14 hours a day, pushing through just about every weather possible. His biggest challenge to date has raised close to $100,000 (CA) and will hopefully continue. Riding on the back of his specially modified tandem bicycle was a rotating group of three Kenyan orphans, just 3 of the many whose lives have been changed. They took turns being pulled across the country by Loewen. For more information and to donate to the cause, see the ride's official site, www.spoke2005.comOn February 8, the same day Super Size Me opened in Prague, a Czech film company's volunteer known as Karel Gustav Bozan began a 1 month diet of Czech pub food and beer in a Czech version called "Super Spek Me"; which translates loosely as "Super Flab Me".Zuzana Pudilova of Aerofilms described the volunteer at that time: "He is a well-built man between 45 and 50. He is almost 2 metres tall, he is not exactly thin but until now he has had quite a healthy lifestyle." Karel ate typical Czech pub food for an entire month with three rules: no vegetables or fresh fruit (unless they came with a meal) no exercise, and lots of beer.Karel's menu consisted entirely of typical Czech dishes. Obesity therapist, Iva Malkova, had warned at the beginning of the project: "People in the Czech Republic eat much more fat, especially animal fat than is recommended." Pub meals in the Czech Republic often consist of such fatty items as goose with dumplings or sausages.Yesterday the results were announced; Karel lost six kilos, his cholesterol went down and so did his liver enzymes, triglyceride and uric acid levels. His blood pressure did not change. At his interview with Radio Prague he said: "I feel good, great! The food was varied and there were even enough greens in the garnish. As for beer, I tried to alternate brands but I always settled it with Pilsner. I liked the experiment, it was all paid for by the distributor, Aerofilms. I would do it again, maybe they will propose it to me!" Zuzana Pudilova of Aerofilms said: "The result of the experiment is surprising - both for us and the experts who monitored it. The medical report says our volunteer has lost weight and his blood sugar has dropped. So we have come to the conclusion that fatty Czech pub grub is not all that bad for you - which I guess wasn't meant to be the result of the experiment at all."Sir Nicholas Winton, MBE visited the Czech Republic today and received the Order of the White Lion from the hands of president Miloš Zeman. As a British citizen in Czechoslovakia in the late 1930s, Winton, now 105, saved 669 mostly Jewish children from future Nazi oppression organizing their transport to safety.The decoration took place in the Prague Castle, separate from the evening ceremony where other distinguished people is to be awarded, in respect to Sir Nicholas's health. Winton was accompanied by his family members and met several children he saved. During the same ceremony, Miloš Zeman awarded the Order of the White Lion in memoriam also to the late Winston Churchill, who was the United Kingdom's prime minister during World War II and led the country as a major part of the anti-Hitler coalition to victory over Nazi Germany. Churchill's grandson Nicholas Soames accepted the order.During the ceremony, Zeman apologized for the delay before Winton eventually received these honors, and said "Great thanks for all children you saved" ((cz))Czech language: ‍Velké díky za všechny děti, které jste zachránil. Winton replied "I want to thank you all for this enormous expression of thankgiving for something that happened to me nearly a hundred years ago" ((cz))Czech language: ‍Rád bych poděkoval všem za tento neuvěřitelný výraz vděku za něco, co jsem udělal snad před sto lety.The Order of the White Lion is the highest Czech Republic decoration, awarded to the statesmen and other individuals "to recognize superior accomplishments contributing to the welfare of the Czech Republic", as the act of the state decorations defines. With the exception of a few statesmen in office, Winton and Winston Churchill have been the first people to receive the order in the civil division in eleven years.In recent years, around 250 thousand Czech students signed a petition asking the Nobel Peace Prize for Winton, who has been nicknamed by media "British Oskar Schindler". His acts were not known to wide public until the late 1980s, when his wife found documents in their attic and shared them with an historian. Since then, he has been decorated with the Order of Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk in the Czech Republic and knighted in the United Kingdom. In Prague's central railway station, there is a monument to children saved by Winton.The Czech Republic celebrates its national holiday today. On October 28, 96 years ago, the former Czechoslovakia was founded as a country independent from former Habsburg Monarchy.Jana Tylova, a 31-year-old Czech woman, came from behind to win the inaugural Sudoku world championships to become the top sudoku player in the world. Tylova works as an accountant for a construction company in the Czech city of Most, and she beat 85 players from 22 countries.A graduate student from Harvard University, Thomas Snyder, who had been leading, came in second and Wei-Ha Huang, a 30-year-old Google software engineer in California, came third.Tylova, the only woman in the top 18, finished only ninth after the first round before passing all the men to claim the championship. She is already being called "Queen Jana of Sudoku"."There is no difference between men and women, and I tried to prove that even in logic, men and women are on the same level", said Tylova as people cheered loudly. Jana smiled shyly while accepting her trophy from Wayne Gould who came upon Sudoku in Japan and popularised the game worldwide.Jana told reporters: "I find it very difficult to give advice at all, but I can advise people to practice every day and to follow websites where there are a lot of games available." Tylova revealed that before competitions she played sudoku two hours per day. "It will probably be more now", she said. She showjumps with her horse Impulse during the rest of her spare time.Austria, Belgium, Britain, Czech Republic, Croatia, Denmark, France, Germany, Poland, Hungary, the Netherlands, India, Italy, Japan, Venezuela, Switzerland, the United States, the Philippines, Estonia, Slovakia and Turkey were the countries represented in the championship contest.Newspapers and online sources today reported that a Canadian father sold a hard-to-find video game, which he bought for $90, for $9000 (Canadian), after finding his son smoking pot.The father had bought Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock for Nintendo Wii, which cost him $90, after scouring every store, to find it as a Christmas present for his son."I was so relieved in that I had finally got the Holy Grail of Christmas presents pretty much just in the nick of time," the father wrote on eBay when selling the item. However, when the man came home on Saturday, a bit early, he found his son smoking pot with two friends.The man, a school teacher, said he sold the game to punish his son, and stop him from smoking. The game was sold on eBay for $9000, over one-hundred times the original selling price of the game. The boy, however, will not go without a present, as the man considered purchasing a Nintendo Wii game such as Barbie as the Island Princess or Dancing with the Stars.According to the The Daily Telegraph, the purchaser was an Australian father.  The veracity of the winning bid has yet to be authenticated, so suspicions that the exchange may not be finalised remain.Dan Rather has announced that he will retire on March 9th, 2005 as anchor of CBS Evening News. He will continue to be a correspondent for both of the 60 Minutes shows.It is reported that Rather's leaving has nothing to do with a report in 2004 regarding US President Bush's National Guard service that was widely reported to be factually false. A CBS panel is looking into that report. Others believe that Rather is stepping down due to this report and investigation. Howard Kurtz, a reporter for the Washington Post, states that "It's pretty clear that Dan Rather faced a very unpalatable choice... His contract had at least two more years to run. [Should he] step down now before the outside investigative report, commissioned by CBS News expected in the next few weeks about his botching -- and the network's botching -- of that story about President Bush's National Guard service? Rather [decided] today that it would be better for him to step down on his own terms."Dan Rather, 74, has been the anchor for CBS Evening News for 24 years, succeeding Walter Cronkite. Rather is the third most watched anchor on United States television.Dan Savage, author of the sex advice column Savage Love, has won a Webby Award for his work on the It Gets Better Project. He started the project in 2010 to address a series of incidents of suicide among LGBT youth. Savage and his husband, Terry Miller, co-edited a book featuring selections from the It Gets Better Project. The book, It Gets Better: Coming Out, Overcoming Bullying, and Creating a Life Worth Living, includes a piece from President of the United States Barack Obama – who also filmed a video for the online project. In both the book and the online project itself, individuals submitted contributions with messages of hope and optimism directed towards LGBT teenagers.In an interview published Thursday with Fenuxe Magazine, Savage commented on his initial response when contacted by the Obama Administration to receive a video contribution from the President for the It Gets Better Project: "You could have knocked me over with a feather when the White House called and said the President would record a video. And they not only recorded a video, they were calling me to let me know and they were giving it to us first to release on the 'It Gets Better' website."The Webby Award is presented anually by the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, for excellence on the Internet. Savage was selected for recognition with a Special Achievement Award for his work on the It Gets Better Project. His project focuses on combatting bullying directed against teenagers who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender.Dana Reeve, the widow of Christopher Reeve, died of lung cancer late Monday.  She was 44.Reeve served as chairwoman of the Christopher Reeve Foundation and founded the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Resource Center. She and her late husband, famed for his movie acting role of Superman, became advocates for paraplegics when he suffered a spinal injury in 1995 that left him paralyzed after falling off a horse.  Christopher Reeve died in 2004.Kathy Lewis, President and CEO of the foundation said in a statement to the media, "On behalf of the entire Board of Directors and staff of the Christopher Reeve Foundation, we are extremely saddened by the death of Dana Reeve, whose grace and courage under the most difficult of circumstances was a source of comfort and inspiration to all of us."Reeve, who was not a smoker, announced in 2005 that she had lung cancer.Reeve is survived by her 13-year-old son, Will; a step-daughter, Alexandra; a step-son, Matthew; her father, Dr. Charles Morosini; and sisters Deborah Morosini and Adrienne Morosini Heilman.Spanish rider Dani Pedrosa (Repsol Honda) wins a 2008 MotoGP round on the Catalunya Circuit, Spain. This became his second victory of the season.He was chased by both Valentino Rossi (Yamaha) and Casey Stoner (Ducati), battling each other, allowing the Spaniard to make a comfort gap.250cc winner became the Italian Marco Simoncelli (Gilera), who overtook the pole-sitter Alvaro Bautista (Aprilia).Mike Di Meglio (Derbi) became the winner in the 125cc class. Podium was concluded by the other Derbi rider Pol Espargaro and the Hungarian Gabor Talmacsi on Aprilia.British actor Daniel Craig has been confirmed as the man to follow Pierce Brosnan as the sixth James Bond.Producer Barbara Broccoli and director Martin Campbell called Craig 'a superb actor who has all the qualities needed to bring a contemporary edge to the role'."It is a huge iconic figure in movie history, and those things don't come along very often," Craig said. The role makes Craig the second Englishman to act as the British spy code-named 007, based on the famed literary character created by novelist Ian Fleming in 1953.Craig's film credits include Road to Perdition, Enduring Love, Layer Cake and Sylvia. On British television, his major breakthrough was a starring role in the 1996 BBC drama Our Friends in the North.The next Bond film Casino Royale is due to film in Italy, the Bahamas, the Czech Republic and Pinewood Studios. The film is due for release in 2006.Four-hundred protestors threw fire bombs and stones at the Danish embassy in Tehran, Iran today as part of continuing reaction to the Mohammad cartoons, originally published in Denmark. Iranian riot police were sent in, but several protestors made their way into the embassy and burned documents before being removed. Tear gas was used against the demonstrators, at least nine of which were injured.Denmark has repeated its request to the Iranian government for better protection of its embassy. Iran's minister of trade has halted all trade between the two countries. It is rumored that Iran is planning to review its trade ties with all of the countries in which the cartoons have been published. Iran's ambassador in Denmark has returned to Iran.Demonstrators also attacked the Austrian embassy in Tehran today, as a protest against the Austrian newspaper that published the cartoons, Kleine Zeitung. Windows were broken, but no fires were reported. Demonstrators were also fueled by the IAEA's treatment of Iran's nuclear arms program.Daredevil Evel Knievel has died today at the age of 69, according to a family member.Knievel's granddaughter, Krysten Knievel confirms that he died after his health failed due to diabetes and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. In 1999 he also underwent a liver transplant after complications from hepatitis C. He was born Robert Craig Knievel Jr. on October 17, 1938 in Butte, Montana.Knievel will likely be most remembered for a failed stunt he tried to perform in Idaho. He attempted to jump over the Snake River Canyon with a rocket powered motorcycle, which ended in a premature ejection of the parachute and the motorcycle's subsequent fall into the canyon, resulting in minor injuries to Knievel."No king or prince has lived a better life. You're looking at a guy who's really done it all. And there are things I wish I had done better, not only for me but for the ones I loved," said Knievel in an Associated Press interview in 2006.Knievel is survived by four children, ten grandchildren and a great-grandchild.Knievel retired in 1980.Mary Cheney, the openly lesbian daughter of United States Vice President Dick Cheney, has a given birth to a son, named Samuel David Cheney. The baby was born weighing 8 lbs and 6 ounces (3.9 kg).Cheney intends to raise the child with her partner, Heather Poe.Samuel David is the sixth grandchild of the Vice President. The grandparents, Dick and wife, Lynne, posed for pictures with the newborn within hours of Samuel David's arrival. In February, while pregnant, Mary said: "This is a baby. This is a blessing from God. It is not a political statement. It is not a prop to be used in a debate by people on either side of an issue. It is my child."According to The Independent and The Telegraph, British television channel Channel 4 appointed David Abraham as the new chief executive of the channel on Friday. Abraham has been chief executive of UKTV, an organisation owned between BBC Worldwide and Virgin Media Television, since April 2007. He was also famous for creating the marketing slogan for the television channel Dave: "Everybody knows a bloke called Dave." As well as this, David was previously the general manager and president of The Learning Channel, which is currently owned by Discovery Communications. Abraham was given the appointment as chief executive of Channel 4 after the previous chief executive of the channel, Andy Duncan, departed from his position in November 2009. At around the same time that David Abraham becomes chief executive of the channel, Luke Johnson's time on the channel is due to come to an end, after it was reported in November 2009 that Lord Terence Burns was confirmed to take over his position as chairman of Channel 4. When Abraham was appointed, both Burns and Johnson were part of the interview panel."David is a rare commodity as a broadcaster in that he has an exceptional track record as an innovative leader, both creatively and commercially," Lord Burns noted about Abraham. "At all stages of his career he's led creative teams and commissioned creative output of the highest quality in a commercial environment. It is that experience, we believe, that so well qualifies him for the challenge of running a commercially-funded, public service broadcaster like Channel 4."David Abraham commented: "I look forward to leading the whole organisation through its next period of growth and innovation, both creatively and commercially. What I bring...is idealism, versatility and a record of leading creative organisations through change."The Real Madrid midfielder and captain of the England national team David Beckham and his ex-Spice Girl wife Victoria have given birth to a baby son called Cruz Beckham. The baby delivered by Caesarean section in the Hospital Ruber Internacionalon in Madrid, Spain, Spain at 1040 CET. Cruz is the third child of the Beckham clan together with his older brothers Brooklyn and Romeo. He weighed on arrival at 3.2kg (7lb).American TV host David Letterman announced his retirement on Wednesday night, after a 33 year career as host of the Late Show on CBS. His farewell included an abundance of clips from his classic skits, a few restrained fillips of sincerity and humility and sarcastic, self-deprecating humor with a tinge of nostalgia.Letterman chose as his last musical guests the Foo Fighters, as the band in the past had canceled their tour in South America to play on his first show after Letterman's heart surgery operation.Over the last few weeks, a parade of celebrity guests including Tom Hanks, Julia Roberts and George Clooney paid their respects to Mr. Letterman. Jason Alexander from Seinfeld tweeted: "David Letterman, thank you for the laughs, both live and on air. May your family bring you joy and inspiration and may you laugh for all your days."On Wednesday, he described all the encomiums as "over the top" and said he found it "flattering, embarrassing and gratifying". After more than an hour of tributes and laughs, David Letterman signed off his last show yesterday night with the words: "That's pretty much all I got ... thank you and goodnight."Actor David Tennant made an announcement Wednesday at the National Television Awards in the United Kingdom that he will end his time portraying the Tenth Doctor on the long-running BBC science fiction drama Doctor Who in 2009. The announcement came as part of Tennant's speech accepting the outstanding drama performance award at the program. Tennant, 37, is currently portraying the lead in a production of Hamlet with the Royal Shakespeare Company, and accepted the award by videolink. He was up against Doctor Who co-star Catherine Tate, who portrayed his companion Donna Noble. Doctor Who was recognized with the award for most popular drama program. "I love this part, and I love this show so much that if I don't take a deep breath and move on now I never will, and you'll be wheeling me out of the Tardis in my bath chair," said Tennant in his address to the audience in attendance at the Royal Albert Hall. "TARDIS" refers to the time machine and spacecraft operated by Tennant's character known only as "the Doctor", and stands for Time And Relative Dimension In Space.Tennant will again inhabit the TARDIS as the Tenth Doctor for the upcoming Doctor Who Christmas special, "The Next Doctor", and will portray the Doctor in four additional specials set to air in 2009. A new actor will play the Doctor for the program's 2010 series.Tennant had initially been interested in portraying the Doctor in the 2005 series, but that role went to Christopher Eccleston. The series had previously been dormant since 1996, with Paul McGann in the lead role. Tennant has said that it was his childhood dream to play the Doctor. This is not his first time being recognized at the National Television Awards for his role as the Doctor. In 2006 he received the award for most popular actor, and again in 2007. In 2006 Tennant beat out actor Tom Baker as the favorite doctor, in a survey of readers of Doctor Who Magazine.The Doctor comes from a race of Timelords, and has the ability to "regenerate" and change appearance when his health is failing. Actors including Russell Tovey, James Nesbitt, Paterson Joseph, John Simm and David Morrissey have been mentioned in the media as possibilities to portray the 11th incarnation of the Doctor.Russell T. Davies, the program's current executive producer, commented to BBC News on the end of the Tenth Doctor and his work with Tennant: "I've been lucky and honoured to work with David over the past few years - and it's not over yet, the Tenth Doctor still has five spectacular hours left! After which, I might drop an anvil on his head. Or maybe a piano. A radioactive piano. But we're planning the most enormous and spectacular ending, so keep watching."  Steven Moffat will replace Davies as executive director of Doctor Who in 2010.Tennant began his work as an actor with roles in theatre, and progressed to starring roles on television programs including Blackpool and Casanova. He has recently returned to theatre roles with the Royal Shakespeare Company, and has received praise for his work in Hamlet and Love's Labour's Lost.Daybreak, a new breakfast show on ITV in the United Kingdom, launched on Monday at 0600 BST (0500 UTC). The show was hosted by Christine Bleakley and Adrian Chiles, both of whom previously presented The One Show on BBC One.Opening the broadcast, Bleakley commented: "Dawn is happening, day is breaking behind us here, it's a beautiful thing here behind us in the studio." Chiles then commented: "The sun is up and thank goodness. We spent good money bringing you this view [...] at least you can see it. Thank goodness for that." On the website for The Guardian, Stuart Heritage stated that "[a]lthough it does seem like a continuation of GMTV rather than a bold reinvention, some of the new aspects of Daybreak have worked. Adrian and Christine have done reasonably well and the other new faces all seem like good additions." The set for the programme features two purple sofas with a large round desk in between the sofas and a skyline of London in a backdrop.The new programme was followed at 0830 BST (0730 UTC) by another new programme, entitled Lorraine — hosted by Lorraine Kelly — which was broadcast until 0925 BST (0825 UTC). Kelly stressed: "I've really missed you. I hope you like our new look and we've got a packed show for you today." The Lorraine set contains a pink sofa, a pink armchair and a large round white desk. The two new programmes are the successors to GMTV — which had its last broadcast on Friday.Previously, Alison Sharman, ITV Director of Factual and Daytime, explained: "Daybreak plays a key part in ITV’s ongoing transformation and reflects the fact that creative renewal lies at the heart of our schedule, which is being modernised and improved under Peter Fincham. We want to ensure that the core audience of housewives with children keep watching but are also determined to attract new viewers to our revitalised breakfast show. As we approach the next stage of this transformational journey our newly confirmed anchors — Christine and Adrian — will be the lynchpins of Daybreak with their unique and brilliant partnership."Stunt pilot and Marine veteran Jim LeRoy, age 46, died on Saturday, 28 July 2007 at the Dayton Air Show in Ohio, United States, while performing in his signature S2S Bulldog Pitts aircraft, with his companion pilot in a stunt routine. The two planes executed a looping cross near to the ground, but while LeRoy's companion pulled up, LeRoy's Bulldog never did, hitting the ground and skidding to a stop, engulfed in flames.After airport fire trucks put out the blaze, LeRoy was airlifted out of the crash site by a Black Hawk helicopter, which had been on medical standby for the show. After the crash, the air show's announcer (also a pastor) led the crowd in a prayer for Jim's survival and healing. LeRoy died while the helicopter was making its way to Miami Valley Hospital.The portion of the show was just prior to when the Thunderbirds would have flown, who stepped down to allow airport security and the TSA and FAA to conduct their investigation. Videos of the crash were requested by the agencies. The show was then closed for the day, to allow the investigation to continue, and airport police stood by to "remove cars as fast as possible."The death of Michael Jackson on Thursday has caused several last-minute changes to films and television dramas.In Hollywood, Brüno, the film whose premiere at Grauman's Chinese Theatre last night prevented fans from reaching Jackson's own star at the Hollywood Walk of Fame, was edited at the last minute to remove a scene involving La Toya Jackson.  The scene involved the lead character, the eponymous Bruno played by Sacha Baron Cohen, interviewing La Toya Jackson, making jokes about the pitch of Michael's voice and his famous white glove, and pestering her for Michael's home telephone number.The scene may or may not remain cut for the theatrical release of the film, to occur in a few weeks' time.  Speaking at a party after the premiere, the film's director, Larry Charles, said "We decided to take it out for tonight and we'll reassess before the release whether to keep it out."In the United Kingdom, the June 26 episode of the BBC's flagship soap opera, EastEnders, which is normally recorded several months ahead of transmission, was altered at the last minute to insert an extra scene where character Denise Wicks mentions Jackson's death to Patrick Trueman.Wikinews has learned through an investigation that anonymous edits on the Wikipedia article Chris Benoit were added about the death of his wife Nancy Benoit 14 hours before police entered the Benoit home to find the former professional World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Canadian wrestler and his family dead.An anonymous edit from IP address 69.120.111.23 using the Internet service provider Optimum Online was made at 04:01 UTC on Chris Benoit's Wikipedia article. On a paragraph about an earlier fight: "However, Chris Benoit was replaced… due to personal issues,…", the anonymous editor added " stemming from the death of his wife Nancy." The edit was reversed just under one hour later with the comment: "Need a reliable source. Saying that his wife died is a pretty big statement, you need to back it up with something."Then just one hour later after the first edit reversion, another anonymous edit by 125.63.148.173 using unwiredAustralia.com.au, a wireless Internet service provider, was made adding about the aforementioned personal issues: "which according to several pro wrestling websites is attributed to the passing of Benoit's wife, Nancy." That edit was reverted just under 20 minutes later, with the comment: "Saying 'several pro wrestling websites' is still not reliable information."Further investigation shows that the IP address used to make the first edit is located in Connecticut, but the IP address is not linked to any computers or servers used by the WWE, but according to Cary Bass, Volunteer Coordinator for the Wikimedia Foundation, the IP address matches a location in Stamford, Connecticut where the WWE headquarters is located. Bass also informed the local authorities in Atlanta about the unusual edits, but it is not known if the edits were investigated by the police. The second edit was made by a computer in Australia from a wireless network."It didn't become apparent until someone put the pieces together and realized that the comment was made by someone who apparently knew about the murders," added Bass.Fayette County Sheriff deputy Lt. Tommy Pope stated that police found the family at about 2:30 p.m. ET, which is 18:30 UTC, on Monday when the WWE called police and asked them to do a "welfare check" after employees of WWE received calls and text messages from Chris Benoit. Early Sunday, Benoit sent repeated text messages that read "My physical address is 130 Green Meadow Lane, Fayetteville Georgia. 30215." Another text message reportedly said "The dogs are in the enclosed pool area. Garage side door is open." The messages were sent around 4:00 a.m. ET.Earlier, on Saturday afternoon, Chris Benoit placed a series of calls that explained why he missed his flight to Houston. The stories he told were mostly about his wife and son being sick with food poisoning and vomiting. Although, in one call he said that he and Nancy were at the hospital to be with Daniel who was hospitalized. Throughout he insisted that he would attend that live event in Houston.When he missed the live event on Sunday, and the WWE couldn't get hold of him, they contacted authorities. Police say that Benoit strangled his wife on Friday, smothered his son on late Friday or early Saturday, and then hanged himself inside his weight room on Sunday or Monday.The Wikinews investigation is unable to conclude whether the anonymous editors had inside information about the death of Nancy Benoit.This is not the first time Benoit's article has been edited to show false or unsourced information, as the article's edit history indicates a long history of promotional spam and vandalism. Around the time of the edits, the article contained a hidden warning to editors of the section mentioned, warning against adding rumours and speculations. For the time being, Benoit's article has been protected in an attempt to stop the addition of fraudulent information.Toronto, Ontario's 2016 Fan Expo Canada, scheduled for September 1–4, includes farewells to some US icons, and the debut of a new work by a Canadian icon. The first batch of programming was announced in a media release late last week.Saturday, September 3, acclaimed Canadian author Margaret Atwood is to launch her graphic novel Angel Catbird, with illustrator Johnnie Christmas. The panel includes a question and answer session and an opportunity to purchase the book before its general release date. Other recent firsts from the 76-year-old Booker Award-winning Atwood include a chamber opera that debuted in 2014, participating in the Twitter Fiction Festival in 2015, and being the first writer included in the Future Library project, her Scribbler Moon not to be read until 2114.Stan Lee, now 93, is in the midst of what he claims to be his final convention tour. As first announced in February, the Spider-Man, Iron-Man, and X-Men creator is to make his final Canadian convention appearance at Fan Expo. Also bidding adieu to the convention circuit are Adam West and Burt Ward, from the original Batman television series, celebrating its 50th anniversary this year.The remainder of the announced schedule includes various programs for the 50th anniversary of Star Trek, including appearances by actors William Shatner, George Takei, and Nichelle Nichols, the four day long Geekfest Film Festival, and a live script reading of Ghostbusters by voice acting legends Rob Paulsen, Bill Farmer, Maurice LaMarche, and David Hayter. Panels include The Dark Knight III team, including a rare appearance by Frank Miller, the cast of Sailor Moon, and an exclusive panel of Kevin Smith and Jason Mewes.The 750,000 square foot event projects "over 140,000" attendees this year to Toronto's Metro Toronto Convention Centre.After a final piece of videotaped testimony from the accuser in the Michael Jackson case, the defense rested on Friday.The interview was taped by the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department on July 6, 2003.  The contents of the tape mostly repeated earlier testimony given by the boy describing Michael Jackson's alleged acts of molestation.  Judge Rodney S. Melville instructed the jurors "only to observe the demeanor, manner and attitude of the witness", and that the boy's "statements are not to be considered for the truth of the matter stated."Closing arguments could begin as early as Wednesday.The Delhi University will award an honouris causa degree to its superstar alumnus Amitabh Bachchan on the 4 of November for his contribution to the Indian film industry. Notable cartoonist (and creator of the iconic Common Man character) R. K Laxman, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Prime Minister C N R Rao and Chief Minister of Delhi Sheila Dixit will also be presented with honorary degrees at the ceremony.The University will also honour historian Romila Thapar, industrialist Ratan Tata (who recently negotiated the largest overseas takeover by an Indian company) and writer Mahashweta Devi at a separate convocation. Mr. Bachchan, who has acted in blockbusters such as Sholay and Don, was conferred an honorary doctorate by the De Montford University of Leicester in July. The French Government has also decided to present him with its highest civilian award- the Legion d'Honneur at an award ceremony which will be held at a later date.Denmark switched off its analog TV signal on Saturday evening, to be replaced by digital. To mark the event, a massive light show was held in which lights from seven locations were synchronised to appear identical from any location in Denmark.The event, the largest Europe has ever seen, started at 6:00 p.m. local time and continued until 11:55, just before the midnight switchover.  It was being run via projectors, each weighing in at 200kg, which have been installed on top of seven TV towers — in Jutland, Funen, Zealand, and Bornholm.  The tallest of these, Rø-senderen, stands 431 meters above sea level at Denmark's easternmost point, the island of Bornholm.The show was organised and paid for by Boxer TV, which operates digital pay TV channels amongst the forty available on the digital signals. Boxer's director Steen Ulf Jensen said in a press release, "The great light show will illustrate the amazing digital transformation that will happen to the television masts in the night. When the Danes wake up tomorrow, the masts will broadcast entirely digitally."Each beam could be seen 20km away and was projected 3km into the air. The project was designed by Jesper Kongshaug and is controlled by computer, utilising technology more regularly seen in Las Vegas and Hollywood.Further details have emerged on the deaths of two people at the annual Norway Rock Festival in Kvinesdal. Eight other people were rescued unconscious from a bus at the site. Meanwhile, it has been reported that British heavy metal band Motörhead opened their performance at the festival with a minute's silence for the deceased.The names of those killed have now been released. They are Terje Brueland, 32, and Anita Wathne, 31. As reported earlier, they were an unmarried couple and left behind three children. It is believed that the accident occurred due to carbon monoxide poisoning.The police investigation has uncovered that the double-decker bus had been converted into a motorhome. Electricity was supplied by way of a generator, which was placed inside a locked compartment on the vehicle. Police believe that fumes from the generator leaked inside without anyone noticing, as carbon monoxide is odourless and colourless.The problem was discovered at 2 p.m. Saturday by friends who had gone to the bus to check up on those inside. Five of the eight survivors were taken to hospital in Stavanger and two to Oslo's Ullevål University Hospital. Three remain in serious but stable condition, while two have been released.The two killed in the bus came from Oltedal in Rogaland County, where they are reported to have a large family who are looking after their children along with friends.The festival lasted three days and drew crowds of 5-6,000 people.Yesterday Leonardo DiCaprio won his first Oscar, for Best Actor, at the 88th Academy Awards. The award ended DiCaprio's long wait for an Academy Award — he was first nominated in 1993 and won on his sixth nomination, for his role in The Revenant, which also won Best Cinematography and Best Director.In his acceptance speech, DiCaprio described The Revenant as "about man's relationship to the natural world", and spoke of underprivileged people affected adversely by human activities on nature. He also said "Our production needed to move to the southern tip of this planet just to be able to find snow". He concluded saying "I thank you all for this amazing award tonight. Let us not take this planet for granted. I do not take tonight for granted. Thank you so very much."DiCaprio was previously nominated for his work in The Wolf of Wall Street, for Best Actor and Best Picture; Blood Diamond, for Best Actor; The Aviator, Best Actor; and What's Eating Gilbert Grape, for Best Supporting Actor.Kate Winslet, who co-starred with DiCaprio in Titanic, was nominated for Best Supporting Actress for Steve Jobs, but lost to Swedish actress Alicia Vikander for her role in The Danish Girl.  Brie Larson collected Best Actress for her performance in Room.Mad Max: Fury Road had ten nominations and won six of them: Best Costume Design, Film Editing, Makeup and Hairstyling, Production Design, Sound Editing, and Sound Mixing. Ex Machina won the award for Best Visual Effects. Spotlight won the Best Picture award, and Sam Smith's song Writing's on the Wall won Best Original Song for Spectre ahead of the Grammy-winning song Earned It by Canadian singer The Weeknd.Dick Clark, U.S. entertainment media cultural icon, died at St. John’s Hospital in Santa Monica, California on Wednesday of a heart attack, according to his publicist Paul Shefrin. He was 82 years old."Attempts to resuscitate were unsuccessful," Shefrin said.In December 2004, months after going public with his Type 2 diabetes, Clark experienced a mild stroke, after which he did less on-camera.Clark was a charismatic and successful entertainment-industry businessman. His business Dick Clark Productions featured teen dance television programs, prime-time specials, game shows, and movies. Known as "America’s Oldest Teenager," Clark was known for his roles as host of American Bandstand and Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1993. "I'm encouraged by the many people who tell me I'm an inspiration to them," Clark said in an email interview with USA Today last December. He also said he would try to stay positive "and attack every day with the thought things are going to get better."Clark is survived his by wife, two sons, and daughter.Scheduled to take place on May 6 in Seattle, this will be the first induction ceremony since the hall of fame moved to Seattle from its previous home in Lawrence, Kansas. Induction into the hall is not based on any single work, according to the hall's press release, but for a lifetime of creative endeavors that "shaped" the science fiction genre.Inductees come from four categories: film, television and media, literature, art, and a category called "open" which is designed for individuals who do not fit into one of the other categories.  2005 is the first year the hall inducted people for works other than literature.A new television advert for Diet Coke featuring singer Duffy has been cleared by the Advertising Standards Authority in the United Kingdom after they received twenty two complaints.The advert depicts Duffy cycling through a supermarket during a concert she was performing in.  Eighteen viewers complained because she was not wearing reflective clothing and her bicycle had no lights.  Four other viewers complained because they believed children could copy her actions.ASA upheld Coca Cola's argument that the ad was supposed to reflect Duffy's fantasy and her escape from the pressures of celebrity and that children would realise cycling around a supermarket was not a realistic idea.< 1 - 12 January 2005 • Index • 18 - 25 January>< 26 December-31 December 2004 • Index • 11-18 January 2005 >Articles dated 1 to 10 January 2005 are included in the compilation below.Experimental FormatToday, the Internet news site Digg launched the third version of its site, which sees it expanding from exclusively technology-related news into tech, entertainment, world, business and science news. The site has also had a redesign.Screenshots of the third version of Digg site have being released to various blogs like TechCrunch and also Valleywag over the last few weeks. Shortly after the first screenshots, AOL launched a social news site similar to Digg, located at a subdomain of Netscape. This received a negative response from the majority of the blogosphere.Last Thursday a launch party for Digg 3.0 was held at a San Francisco bar. Kevin Rose gave a preview of the new version of Digg and features to come out in July, 2006. Diggnation video of the launch party is located at http://videos.revision3.com/diggnation/0051/diggnation--0051--2006-06-22--small.m4v.The popular social news site Digg.com was suffering from what appears to be a user revolt in response to the deletion of several articles revealing the encryption keys for HD-DVD, which would allow individuals to remove the encryption from HD-DVDs. Users are posting articles with links to the codes. At approximately 1:40 a.m [Eastern time] Digg.com was no longer online but returned online with a message from Kevin Rose, Digg's founder, who declared that he would not delete any more articles that contain the code."We'll be back shortly. Digg.com will be down for a brief period while we make some changes," said a statement previously posted on Digg.com's website. The notation (Out of service) appeared as the page's title.According to co-founder Jay Adelson, the stories were deleted as a result of intellectual property infringement, although some users of the site speculate that the stories were deleted as a result of ties to the MPAA and its Diggnation podcast."We had to make a call, and in our desire to avoid a scenario where Digg would be interrupted or shut down, we decided to comply and remove the stories with the code. But now, after seeing hundreds of stories and reading thousands of comments, you’ve made it clear. You’d rather see Digg go down fighting than bow down to a bigger company. We hear you, and effective immediately we won’t delete stories or comments containing the code and will deal with whatever the consequences might be," said Kevin Rose, the founder of Digg in a statement on Digg's blogging site. The message also appears as a story submitted by Rose on Digg's main page. Rose included the encryption key in the title of the story, and joined countless other users by repeating the key in the comment section of the story.A large number of Digg.com users were spamming the site with the 16 byte key to such an extent, apparently, that the site became almost unreadable. Users were not able to submit new material even though a "success" message was displayed after clicking submit.As with Digg, during the past 48 hours, Wikipedia also has experienced some intensive user (and non-user) efforts to post the HD-DVD codes. Pending legal instructions to the contrary, Wikipedia volunteers ("administrators") have struggled with limited success to keep the codes off its site. Wikinews also experienced some trouble with users and non-users posting the code.==Sources== Kevin Rose. "Digg This" — Digg the Blog, May 2, 2007Chris Scott Barr. "Extra Extra! Mob takes over Digg - Riot ensues!" — SlashGear, May 2, 2007kdawson. "Digg.com Attempts To Suppress HD-DVD Revolt" — Slashdot.com, May 2, 2007Jay Adelson. "What's Happening with HD-DVD Stories?" — Digg the Blog, May 1, 2007Elijah Horton. "Was it Worth It, Digg?" — fieryprophet, May 1, 2007On Wikipedia's situation, see: [1]Scott Adams, creator of the popular U.S comic strip Dilbert, posted Tuesday in his blog that he spontaneously recovered from Spasmodic Dysphonia, a voice disorder that rendered him incapable of speech.His blog post, titled Good News Day, describes various efforts he had undergone to self-treat the disorder and "re-map" his brain connections to normal speech. According to Adams, the condition was described to him by a specialist who diagnosed it as incurable.Hundreds of well wishers have commented with support on his blog page after what Adams said was an 18-month-long battle with the affliction."My theory was that the part of my brain responsible for normal speech was still intact, but for some reason had become disconnected from the neural pathways to my vocal cords," Adams wrote.In what Adams wrote was the "weirdest part of this phenomenon", is a person's ability with the disorder to sing, or to speak in public, or in other contexts of vocal interaction, but not in normal conversation. For him, the breakthrough to recovery came with the rhyming found in poetry. By reciting "Jack be nimble, Jack be quick. Jack jumped over the candlestick." he was able to find the reinforcement to talk again.Dima Bilan has won the 2008 Eurovision Song Contest, the 53rd, for Russia with his song Believe. The song was developed by US R&B artist Timbaland. The song won the competition with 272 points; 42 points ahead of Ukraine's Ani Lorak in second place with 230 points for the song Shady Lady. Third was Kalomira for Greece with Secret Combination The voting for the competition came from 43 countries across Europe, but with 25 countries competing, the others having failed to get through the semi finals. Russia has never won the contest before, Bilan having come second in 2006, losing out to Finnish hard rock band Lordi with Hard Rock Halellujah. Furtherdown the scale Germany's No Angels with Disapear, Poland's Isis Gee with For Life and the United Kingdom's Andy Abraham with Even If came joint last with 14 points. Fourth last was Teräsbetoni, a Finnish heavy metal band performing in their native language with Missä Mihet Ratsastaa (Where Men Ride). Sweden's Charlotte Perrelli had been predicted to repeat her 1999 victory, this time with Hero, but also received a low score.There was an estimated 100 million television viewers from across Europe.UK commentator Terry Wogan has garnered significant media attention for criticising the contest live towards the end of the broadcast for being overly political. "It's a disappointment, considering that Andy Abraham gave, I think, the performance of his life with a song that certainly deserved more marks than it got when you look at the points that Spain got, that Bosnia-Herzegovina got - some really ridiculous songs," he said. "You have to say that this is no longer a music contest... I have to decide whether we (himself and his producer, who already announced he wanted to leave) want to do this again. Western European participants have to decide whether they want to take part from here on in, because their prospects are poor." He called the contest "political".Spain was represented by Rodolfo Chikilicuatre with Baila el Chiki Chiki (Dance the Chiki Chiki) and Bosnia and Herzegovina by Elvir Laković Laka with Pokušaj (try).Bilan, who received the maximum 12 points from Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine, Belarus and Armenia, all of which are former Soviet countries, was sent a telegram from Putin to congratulate him after his victory. Mevedev also contacted him later by phone to congratulate him. "Russia is the favorite now, it's just tearing everybody up — in basketball, football, hockey, and Eurovision!" commented champion figure skater Evgeni Plushenko, who had joined Bilan onstage to skate as part of the winning performance. He is now also a politician.Next year's contest will be held in Russia.The future of the artsy Trio channel became increasingly grim Saturday as satellite TV giant DirecTV dropped the fledgling network from its national channel lineup.When DirectTV programmers threw the off switch at 6 a.m. eastern standard time Jan. 1, Trio, an NBC Universal-owned cable television channel, lost two-thirds of its 20 million household subscribers. The channel's remaining 8 million subscribers may not give it enough audience to ensure its survival, according to some experts.The network received critical acclaim for a quirky lineup that includes the series, Brilliant But Cancelled, which took American broadcast networks, including parent NBC, to task for cancelling quality programs.US disco singer Donna Summer died Thursday aged 63 in Key West, Florida, following a struggle with lung cancer. During her career, Summer won five Grammy Awards and had nineteen number one singles in the US charts.Summer's family gave the following statement: "Early this morning, we lost Donna Summer Sudano, a woman of many gifts, the greatest being her faith. While we grieve her passing, we are at peace celebrating her extraordinary life and her continued legacy."Her first hit was the 1975 track Love To Love You Baby, which was banned by the BBC.The 1977 Giorgio Moroder-produced single I Feel Love pioneered the use of synthesisers. Brian Eno told David Bowie upon hearing the song, "I've heard the sound of the future".After disco's popularity wound down, Summer moved across genres, with the 1979 song Hot Stuff earning her a Grammy Award for best rock vocal performance. She said of this: "I am actually the first woman — not black woman — but woman, period, to get a rock-and-roll Grammy".Donna Summer also appeared in the 1979 movie Thank God It's Friday, and her performance of the song Last Dance earned her an Academy Award for best song.Her popularity in the gay community was threatened in the 1980s after it was reported that she had made anti-gay remarks at a concert, specifically that "AIDS is the result of your sins". In 1989, she told the gay magazine The Advocate that she did not make the statements she was reported to have made, and expressed regret at the loss of friends to AIDS: "I never said, ‘If you are gay, God hates you.’ Come on. Be real. I don’t understand that. Anybody who really knows me knows I wouldn’t say that."Summer was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1948 as LaDonna Adrian Gaines. She learned she could sing in her church's gospel choir and then in musicals. In 1973, she married an actor she had met in Austria, Helmuth Sommer, from whom she gets the name "Summer". Before her divorce in 1975, Summer gave birth to Mimi Summer. Five years later, she remarried to Bruce Sudano, a musician, who fathered two daughters, Brooklyn and Amanda.Ben Marlin, bassist for American brutal death metal band Disgorge, died Wednesday after a lengthy battle with cancer.San Diego-based Disgorge announced his death in the following statement:"We are regretful to say that after nearly a year and a half of battling cancer, our brother and bass player Ben Marlin has passed away just about the stroke of 5 a.m. this January 2nd, 2008. We are going to miss him so much and may he live on in all our hearts forever. Ben, thank you for all your years of friendship and brutality."Upon hearing of Marlin's death Ruud Lemmen of Neurotic Records released the following statement:"It is with great regret that I've just learned about Ben losing his battle with cancer. Ben was a great friend, and the time he spent in Europe with Disgorge (especially the nights off at my own home) have been nothing but great. Ben was a good guy, a funny fellow and I will never forget him. For one, I can't even imagine how thrilled I was when he took off his own personal, extremely limited Cranial Impalement (early band demo) long-sleeve and threw it my way, saying, 'Hey bro, it's yours.' This is just one of many perfect examples that showed what kind of humble person Ben was. My condolences go out to friends, family and band members."Indian teens who love the movie Krrish will have ample reason to celebrate. The first issue of the country's new Disney Adventures magazine will highlight the movie, Bollywood.An international format adapted for India, the 100-page monthly publication will feature Disney and Bollywood movies, jokes, comic pages, games, tech news and reviews, fashion, and contests.Early expectations see the magazine being offered on newsstands for Rs 40, or by subscription.Infomedia India, who has partnered with Walt Disney India, will publish Disney Adventures. The website agencyfaqs! notes that Disney India has recently released extensive Power Rangers merchandise in the region.The magazine first published in the United States in the early 1990s, and has seen many evolutions in its content mix. The magazine's first issue included semi-educational articles on cowboys, animation, and unexplained phenomena; the current issues on news-stands is a biannual comic issue contain brief blurbs about pop culture news. An Australian edition also is published.American animator Ollie Johnston, the last of Disney's so-called "Nine Old Men", has died at the age of 95.Johnston died of natural causes on Monday in Sequim, Washington, according to Walt Disney Studios Vice President Howard E. Green.Johnston worked on many of the Disney's classic films, including Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937), Pinnochio (1940), Fantasia (1940), Bambi (1942), and many others. Johnston worked extensively with his best friend Frank Thomas, a fellow "old man" who died in 2004. The pair met at Stanford University in the 1930s and worked together until Thomas' death. They retired from animation in 1978, but remained popular speakers and authors about Disney and animation."Ollie was part of an amazing generation of artists, one of the real pioneers of our art, one of the major participants in the blossoming of animation into the art form we know today," said Roy E. Disney.Johnston devoted much of his retirement to writing and lecturing, but perhaps even more to model trains, a field in which he became considered one of the world's foremost experts.Ollie Johnston's last film was The Fox and the Hound (1981) on which he worked as a supervisor.The Walt Disney Company has finalized a US$7.4 billion deal to acquire its long-time partner Pixar in an all stock buy-out. The deal will make Steve Jobs, current Pixar and Apple CEO, Disney's largest shareholder with about 7% (valued at over $3.5 billion) and a member of the board of directors. The merger was speculated all day Tuesday on the stock market and the announcement came just after trading closed for the day. Terms of the merger include Pixar's John Lasseter becoming Disney's new chief creative officer in charge of animation at the combined Disney-Pixar Animation Studios, as well as principal creative advisor at Walt Disney Imagineering, the unit of the company responsible for research and development of Disney theme parks worldwide.Jobs purchased what became Pixar for $10 million in 1986 from George Lucas's computer animation division at Lucasfilm. Toy Story, its first feature film, came a decade later, and began a long string of animation hits, including Finding Nemo. Such successes proved to be increasingly elusive for Disney to manage on its own. The partnership between the two studios had become shaky in recent years, as former Disney head Michael Eisner clashed with Jobs over the renewal terms of their agreement. In 2003, prior to his dismissal from Disney, Eisner infuriated Pixar's creative team by predicting Finding Nemo would be a failure. Steve Jobs broke off negotiations in January 2004, having told one executive previously, "I don't see how the relationship can continue as long as Eisner is there."The Walt Disney Company has today announced the inclusion of a Christmas special in its animated comedy series Phineas and Ferb. The special, entitled "Phineas and Ferb's Christmas Vacation," will follow the series' protagonists, stepbrothers Phineas and Ferb, trying to spread Christmas cheer across their city after the mad scientist Dr. Doofenshmirtz uses a machine to cancel the holiday.Disney has high expectations for the special. On November 27, the company will stream one of the seven musical numbers that will be showcased in the special on its public radio network Radio Disney. The official special is set to air accordingly the following month on December 6, 2009, on the company's cable network Disney XD. Soon after, it will air on fellow Disney networks Disney Channel and ABC Family.The crew of the series too have high hopes for the Christmas special. Zac Moncrief, who directed the special, announced that he believes it will "go down in history as a cartoon classic." When asked about the special, co-creator Jeff "Swampy" Marsh explained, "It's kind of intimidating. You sit down and think, 'This is something that's going to live at Christmas for a long, long time.'" Dan Povenmire, the other co-founder, said of his excitement over the featured musical numbers, "[H]opefully they'll be songs that this generation of kids will think of as Christmas songs the same way that kids think of 'Dahoo dore' (from 'How The Grinch Stole Christmas') or 'Rudolph The Red-Nosed Reindeer.'"Disney has given a thumbs down to a university's LGBT club stage production of Sister Act. After working six months on the production, the group at Irish university NUI Galway were told to cease production, or suffer the consequences of legal action.Jeff Rockett, producer of the play, commented to the Irish Times, "We are dumbfounded by Disney's stance towards what is a charitable, non-profit-making society, aimed at promoting safety and integration for the student LGBT [lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender] community. We were just having fun."Reports claim the story was only "loosely based" on the film, and so the play's producers are investigating with lawyers what changes can be made, to make the production completely independent of the original concept.Galway's Town Hall Theatre will refund tickets to the production.An officially licensed Sister Act: The Musical is on stage in Atlanta, before making its way to Broadway.File:Entrance of Disneyland Paris.jpgWalt Disney Resorts in Paris, Hong Kong, and Tokyo will eliminate trans fats from all food served at the parks by 2009.This move comes in addition to ridding foods of trans fats at Disneyland in California and Walt Disney World in Florida, by the end of this calendar year. The American parks began to take action a year ago, as a response to nutritionists. Healthier options such as low-fat milk and baby carrots have been added to the menu, to increase guest choices.Disney Consumer Products has already licensed the company's brands to healthy prepared food products in Canada, via Sobey's grocery stores' Compliments label, while Tesco supermarkets will start offering similar foods next month.As concern over childhood obesity grows, many companies are taking steps to cleanup their act, and gain the trust of customers. Trans fats have been linked to coronary diseases.Disney studios have pledged to leave all forms of smoking out of their family films in a bid to discourage the habit.In a letter to US Congressman Edward Markey, Chief Executive Robert A. Iger stated that smoking in Disney brands will be "non-existent" from now on. He also stated that DVD's that show cigarettes will now carry anti-smoking messages.Mr Markey said that he is pleased that "Disney is embracing a policy that is consistent with the long-term public health of the nation", and called the move by the media giant "groundbreaking"."Now it's time for other media companies to similarly kick the habit and follow Disney's lead."Disney films have rarely depicted smoking in recent years, although several instances in the past exist. For example, in the 1953 Disney film Peter Pan, there is a scene depicting smoking at a Native American camp.Today, The Walt Disney Company and thousands of guests celebrated the fiftieth birthday of theme park and American cultural landmark Disneyland.Park guests, some of whom began queuing for entry around 3:00pm the previous day, packed into the park bringing it to full capacity before lunchtime.Arnold Schwarzanegger, Julie Andrews, Art Linkletter, Diane Disney-Miller, Disney CEO Michael Eisner and Disney CEO-elect, president and COO Bob Iger all joined in the festivities, with Disney-Miller, the eldest daughter of park founder Walt Disney, reading her father's original dedication at the precise time it was first read.The park kicked off the official festivities on May 5 with the opening of the Happiest Homecoming on Earth.The American theme park Disneyland celebrated its golden anniversary on Thursday, in Anaheim, California.The theme park, created and opened by Walt Disney in 1955, hosted a special gala opening at 1pm in front of Sleeping Beauty Castle, the world-famous icon of Disneyland.CEO of the Walt Disney Company Michael Eisner, COO Bob Iger, honorary Disneyland Ambassador Julie Andrews and a host of stars opened the celebration, which is scheduled to run for eighteen months.Singers Christina Aguilera and LeAnn Rimes sang Disney classics, while actors Tim Allen and Steve Martin opened new attractions. Martin had worked at Disneyland as a teenager, and Aguilera was part of the Mickey Mouse Club in the 1980s.Within California, Disney is calling it the Happiest Homecoming on Earth, and worldwide it is known as the Happiest Celebration on Earth. Several attractions have been swapped between parks, and the four main Disney theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Tokyo Disneyland, Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland) gave a salute to Disneyland via live satellite feed.The ceremony was hit with deep purple stormclouds but no rain. The park celebrates its actual birthday on July 17, 2005. There are no clear details on how Disney will mark the occasion.The Dixie Chicks screened their new documentary, "Dixie Chicks: Shut Up and Sing", at the Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF).Directed by Cecilia Peck and Barbara Kopple, the documentary follows the group from the London gig in 2003 in which lead singer Natalie Maines said she was "ashamed" George W. Bush came from Texas, up to the release of their latest album. Even though their latest album has gone platinum, the Country Music Association has not nominated them for the CMA Awards, and many radio stations still do not play their music. But despite the controversy, the Dixie Chicks are in the media, getting good reviews."When Natalie made her comments particularly from the country music box, there was no community, they were out there all on their own," said Kopple. "Our hope with this film, is that people will see it and no longer will the Chicks stand alone.""They never asked me to apologize. We never debated that," said Maines. "What I said can come off as silly or whatever and just everything that has happened since then, it's more of a disgrace, just watching the footage from Hurricane Katrina, it's unbelievable." "At this stage, I don't think that I am pissing off any new people," she commented. "Yes, thank God for Canada," said Maines, noting the band found political support from countries around the world. "It's a little surprising that the U.S. hasn't necessarily caught on yet."The band says the experience gave them the ability to stand up for what they believe in, and strengthened their bond.The Dixie Chicks won the award album in the song of Not Ready To Make Nice. Finally overcame controversy to dominate the 2007 Grammy Awards on Sunday night, winning five statuettes including the two coveted awards for Record and Song of the Year (for "Not Ready To Make Nice").   The country/rock trio, led by Martie Maguire, often criticized for their political views, also won for their album Taking the Long Way.Mary J. Blige, who went into the Grammies with the most nominations, ended up winning three, while American Idol winner Carrie Underwood won two, including Best New Artist and for her song "Jesus Take The Wheel".  With completion of the "big three" music awards (which includes the American Music Awards held in November, and the Billboard Music Awards held in December), Blige and Underwood were the only two artists to sweep all three major awards this season.File:Frida Kahlo by Artist René Romero Schuler.jpgAccording to a new diagnosis by a surgical pathologist, Frida Kahlo most likely suffered uterine damage during a streetcar accident as a teenager and this led to a rare condition known as Asherman's syndrome, and that would explain the Mexican artist's infertility.Dr. Fernando Antelo, from the Harbor–UCLA Medical Center, said, "Her survival defied the grim prognostication by her physicians; however, complications from this physical trauma would emerge in her adulthood." He presented his diagnosis yesterday at the annual meeting of the American Association of Anatomists in San Diego.Asherman's syndrome is normally caused by a trauma to the uterus that results in internal scar tissue. For example, it can occur after multiple procedures to clear the uterus after a miscarriage or abortion, which is known as a "D & C" procedure. Antelo said Kahlo tried to have children many times and her miscarriages, as well as three therapeutic abortions, could have further aggravated the scarring.At present the condition could be diagnosed and treated after advancements in medical imaging and hysteroscopy, but in Kahlo's time, Dr. Antelo said, the technology had not advanced far enough to diagnose and treat her. Asherman's syndrome has been known since 1894 when it was first reported. Kahlo died at age 47 in 1954. "She kept attempting to have children with a uterus that wasn't in any condition to do that," Antelo said.Antelo, who has been working on connections between art and medicine, says that Kahlo brought her infertility to the canvas and this can be seen in her many paintings of reproductive organs or in her depiction of her own bleeding body in the 1932 painting Henry Ford Hospital. In that image, Kahlo is shown lying on a hospital bed with multiple umbilical cords extending from her body and each one holds an object or body part, except one holding a baby.After almost a decade off the air, the science fiction television series Doctor Who returned with new episodes to BBC airwaves on Saturday night, drawing a large audience.Starring movie actor Christopher Eccleston, the ninth actor cast to play the Doctor, as the newly reincarnated Time Lord, the new series showed off a bigger budget with expensive special effects and a much darker — and sexier — tone. The new star and series got a blessing from actor Sylvester McCoy, who played the Doctor in the 1980s."I am very envious about not being in it. The writing is terrific and the toys they play with are much more sophisticated than they were in my day," McCoy wrote in a column for BBC News. "My only criticism was about the TARDIS. It was far too clean. It needs to look a bit more battered and bruised as if it's been through the odd asteroid or two," he said.The Doctor's new sidekick is played by Billie Piper, whose marriage to Chris Evans ended during filming."We're pleased so many people sat down as a family to watch the return of the Doctor," a spokesperson said. Families apparently sat down in droves. Preliminary ratings figures show Who wooing 10.5 million viewers at its peak, or more than 44 percent of all television households in the United Kingdom, for the debut episode. This made it the most-watched show of the evening, easily outpacing second-place Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway on ITV, which attracted an average of 7.2 million households. The series will run for another twelve episodes.One of the longest-running dramas in British history, Doctor Who has been airing sporadically since its debut in 1963. Ironically, the series cancellation in 1989 was due to low ratings.Two doctors who treated actor John Ritter for chest pain in Burbank, California were cleared of a negligence lawsuit on Friday. Ritter was an American television and film actor who died of aortic dissection on 11 September 2003.Ritter's children and widow (Amy Yasbeck) filed a US$67 million lawsuit claiming negligence by the doctors, both at the time Ritter fell ill and at a medical checkup two years earlier where problems with Ritter's aorta could have been spotted.A jury hearing the case at Los Angeles County Superior Court voted 9-3 to dismiss the claims, satisfied that the defendants, Dr. Joseph Lee and Dr. Matthew Lotysch, acted properly during their examination and treatment of Ritter.Ritter's last role was in leading the cast of the television series 8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter whose production was disrupted by his death.The Eleventh International Human Rights Documentary Film Festival opened Friday in the Red Hall of the Kyiv Cinema House, in Kyiv, Ukraine. The festival spans eight days, ending on March 28.Competition programs are divided into DOCU/Right, DOCU/Life, and DOCU/Short. Each program has its own jury that consists of famous human rights activists, film producers, directors, critics, writers etc. Among them are Andrzej Poczobut (Belorus), Natalka Zubar (Ukraine), Oksana Sarkisova (Hungary), Boris Mitić (Serbia), Chris McDonald (Canada), Simone Baumann (Germany), Andrei Zagdansky (Ukraine), Victoria Belopolskaya (Russia), and Stephanie Lamorre (France). Students' Jury and Audience Awards are also to be given. The Organizing Committee is to award an Andriy Matrosov Award.Non-competition programs are divided into areas titles Ideorruption, DOCU/Ukraine, DOCU/Riot, DOCU/Art, DOCU/Best, HOT DOCS presents, Artdocfest presents, and Andrei Zagdansky Retrospective.The best films are also to be shown during Docudays UA Travelling Festival.The opening film was called Euromaidan: Rough Cut. It was a combination of shots of different film directors that have been filming the protests in Ukraine during these past four months. Organizers and creators explained, "This is what it is. It is actually a 'rough cut'. It is a collection of different episodes".The festival was first held in 2003, called at that time Docudays on Human Rights. In 2006 the festival was accepted as part of the international Human Rights Film Network at the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam. It is usually held during the last week of March.In 2013, the festival opened with a performance, showing Berkut — Ukrainian special police — oppressing the journalists:A dolphin has died after a collision with another dolphin in mid-air during a stunt performance at Discovery Cove, a sister park of SeaWorld in Orlando, Florida. This is the first time an incident of this nature has ever occurred since the park opened in 2000.The dolphin, a 30-year-old female named 'Sharky' collided in mid-air, head on, with her co-performer 'Tyler', a 13-year-old male, during a live show at the park on Saturday April 26. Sharky died a short time later after suffering head injuries. Tyler was not injured, but is still being observed closely.Both dolphins have successfully completed the stunt over 100 previous times, but this time it is reported that Sharky miscalculated her jump. At least 30 people were watching the show when they collided."This is a very unfortunate and very rare incident. While it is not unusual to have two animals performing at the same time, we are reviewing the situation to ensure even such a random incident does not occur again. We never had animals collide before," said a spokeswoman for the park, Becca Bides.Dominican comedian Freddy Beras-Goico has died at the age of 69 in the United States. Beras died at the Mount Sinai Medical Center on Thursday in New York. Admitted to the hospital on November 5, the comedian died on Thursday, three days before his 70th birthday, of pancreatic cancer.Beras, who started his career as a cameraman in the 1960s, was also an actor and television presenter. As a child Beras fled Colombia with his family due to the dictatorship of Rafael Trujillo. During the 1950s and 60s he became a political activist and was jailed in 1965. He reached national fame when he began to present a weekly variety television programme. During its thirty year run the show featured some of the most famous musicians from the Dominican Republic and Latin America. Tributes have been paid to the late comedian. The president of the Dominican Republic, Leonel Fernandez, said that he spoke out against the social and political conflicts of the country. He added that "He appealed with energy and integrity for the construction of a better society."His son posted an announcement through his Twitter page. He said "It is with great pain that I announce the death of my father. Infinite thanks to all for your solidarity in these days. Peace to his remains."His funeral is to take place in the Dominican Republic and his body is due to return there today.US avant-garde musician and painter Don Van Vliet — better known by the stage name Captain Beefheart — died Friday aged 69. New York's Michael Werner Gallery confirmed the cause of death as complications with multiple sclerosis, a condition Van Vliet suffered from for many years.Born in Glendale, California on January 15, 1941, the highly experimental musician created several unique and influential albums from 1967 through to 1982, backed by a frequently changing group of musicians known as The Magic Band. His most famous album, Trout Mask Replica (1969) melded free jazz, blues-rock, and avant-garde styles to create a critically acclaimed (albeit commercially unsuccessful) work. He retired from music in 1982 to focus on painting.Whilst none of the albums released by Captain Beefheart and his Magic Band, including 1967 debut album Safe as Milk, were commercially successful, his work is regularly cited as highly influential. Groups such as The Sex Pistols, Jethro Tull, Hawkwind, and Roxy Music all mention Beefheart as influencing their music.A childhood friend of Frank Zappa, Beefheart was christened Don Glen Viet, later changing this; and, adopting the stage name of Captain Beefheart at Zappa's suggestion. Of the dozen albums produced under various lineups of the Magic Band, Trout Mask Replica is placed at number 58 on Rolling Stone's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.Despite no formal training, it was under his own name and as a painter, that Van Vliet experienced his greatest commercial success. His first exhibition was in Liverpool, in 1972. In the wake of this he was advised that as a painter he would be unlikely to be taken seriously unless he abandoned his musical career.He is survived by his wife of over 40 years, Jan Van Vliet.Real estate tycoon Donald Trump on CNN's Anderson Cooper 360 reacted to Rosie O'Donnell's comments about him on the The View. "Rosie has some real problems," Trump said on Anderson Cooper 360. "Rosie's a loser. She's been a loser always."It started when Miss USA Tara Conner was caught under age drinking. Trump, the owner of the Miss Universe Organization, gave her a second chance. Rosie O'Donnell called him a "Pimp" on her personal blog and said he has no right to be "the moral compass for 20-year-olds in America" on The View, which she co-hosts."Rosie got mentally beaten up by me," Trump told The Post yesterday, "because she's a mental midget, a low-life." "It's too bad a degenerate is able to get away with things like that," Trump said yesterday. "I met Tara the night of the pageant and didn't see her again until she got into trouble."Trump said that he would sue her over her comment."It will never end on my behalf because I've exposed Rosie for what she is: a very dumb human being," Trump told the Associated Press. "She's got no intelligence, but I've known that for a long time. Unfortunately, Rosie's pulled the wool over the public."When CNN contacted O'Donnell, one of her representatives said she was unavailable for comment. CNN's Anderson Cooper 360 also said that she is welcome to comment anytime.After lots of speculations and speculative London betting on the outcome it has been announced that British author Doris Lessing ("The Golden Notebook", 1962) is the winner of the 2007 Nobel Prize for Literature. At the International Book Fair at Frankfurt, Germany, which is currently underway, this decision has met with general approval, as a decision awarding the literary work of an author well established beyond her native country, rather than a political statement. The reason given for giving the prestigious award to Doris Lessing was to honour "that epicist of the female experience, who with skepticism, fire and visionary power has subjected a divided civilisation to scrutiny". Lessing herself, who will turn 88 on October 22, has been named a potential candidate over the last 30 years - so long in fact, that she herself once exclaimed: "I'll never get it". Finally, on December 10, 2007, the Nobel Prize including 10 million Swedish Kronor (€1.1 million) will be awarded to her in Stockholm, Sweden.The auction hammer came down Wednesday, in London, on Judy Garland’s blue gingham dress, worn in the 1939 movie “The Wizard of Oz.”  It sold for £140,000 (about US$262,157.40).The identity of the buyer, who sealed the deal on the telephone, was not immediately revealed. Bonham auctioneers told reporters there was a pre-sale estimate of £35,000 (about US$65,529.47).The dress, one of the most recognizable in the movie world, was made for the 17-year-old Garland who had a 27-inch (68-centimetre) waist. Her name is still on a tag on an inside hem. It was auctioned as part of a sale of rock and film memorabilia and was described as a “cherished memory for millions of fans worldwide.”The story of the “Wizard of Oz,” which sealed Garland’s legend as a worldwide star, tells the story of a young Kansan, Dorothy (Judy Garland) and her dog Toto. They are whisked away from their rural Kansas home by a tornado to a magical realm called OZ.In their travels, they meet other now-famous characters, the Scarecrow, the Tin Man, and the Cowardly Lion.Although the film started with only modest success, it has since become a screen classic.74-year-old American gospel singer and writer Joyce 'Dottie' Rambo died Sunday morning when her tour bus crashed into a highway embankment in southwestern Missouri.The wreck occurred two miles east of Mount Vernon, Missouri, along Interstate 44. Police say six other people were hospitalized with moderate to severe injuries in Springfield. Dottie was headed for a Mother's Day concert in North Richland Hills, Texas, when the accident occurred."I know Dottie is in heaven in the arms of God right now, but our earth angel will surely be missed," said Dolly Parton in a statement. A spokesperson for her recording label confirmed to a Knoxville, Tennessee television station that Dottie was asleep at the time of the accident.Dottie started her career at the age of 12, and has written more than 2,500 songs since. She won a Grammy Award in 1968 for her album entitled "The Soul of Me". She was inducted into several halls-of-fame including the Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2007, and into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame twice, first as a soloist in 1982 and again in 2001 as a member of the Rambos singing group with her daughter and Buck Rambo, former husband.  Her newest album is set for release this summer and is entitled "Sheltered".The live television broadcast of the Italian Lotto draw, which was used to award the record-breaking €72.090.405,19 Superenalotto prize Tuesday, is reported to have had problems in the drawing procedure.Only the numbered ball extraction of the "Ruota di Roma" (Wheel of Rome) was shown in the live television broadcast. Instead of the traditional ball extraction made by a child, a new method based on an automatic machine was used for the "Wheel of Rome" and for the new "National Wheel". The other "Wheels" were drawn with the traditional system but were not broadcast on public television.The operation with the new machine worked for the new "National Wheel" but when the operation started for the "Wheel of Rome", something went wrong. Not all the balls were taken into the box by the compressed air jet. A person tried to solve the problem, but a ball had fallen on the floor. Television images did not make it clear what really happened. Some parts of the procedure may not have been shown on television. The organization stated that the fallen ball was reinserted into the box, but this was not shown on television.For these reasons, doubts have arisen about the regularity of the draw. Mr. Corbelli, the president of Movimento Diritti Civili, an association for civil rights, has stated that he wants an investigation to be made by the justice system to clarify what really happened and to check if the drawing was regular.An oversized delight has been erected in the small town of Springfield, Canterbury, New Zealand, as part of the 20th Century Fox massive worldwide marketing campaign for The Simpsons Movie.The giant, pink frosted doughnut was made locally, and the locals are celebrating the fact that their town shares a name with the fictional town of Springfield in the hit Fox cartoon series.The series screens on both TV3 and Sky 1 locally, with the movie set for release nationwide on July 26, 2007. However, the movie will not be screened locally, with residents having to travel to Christchurch to watch the movie.Springfield Township Committee chairman William Townshend says not to get too excited about the piece as it only has a resource consent that allows it to be erected for two months. He also said those hoping for a piece would be disappointed. "It is definitely not edible."Ainslie Burton, spokesperson for the visitor information centre, says the doughnut will be hard to miss.An estimated 3,000 people attended today's unveiling at midday (NZST), Springfield's 2001 population was 219.An advertisement for Dove beauty products has been viewed by well over three million people, without ever being on television. A copywriter from Ogilvy Toronto, the advertising agency that created a spot named "evolution", uploaded the advertisement to video sharing website YouTube.While the official upload of the ad itself has been viewed 1,119,262 times, there are dozens of copies of the ad on YouTube, adding to a minimum of 3,059,546 views. The official copy of the video is the website's 12th most viewed this month, 53rd of all time.Unofficial uploads have each received high levels of viewership, with 449595, 445322, 207906, 201670, 195265, 116501, and 102634 plays.The agency did not originally intend to upload the video to YouTube, only display it on the company's homepage. Staff member Tim Piper uploaded it to his account on October 6, about a week before it first got media coverage on Good Morning America.The ad begins with a woman walking into a photo shoot. From there, she is primped and plucked by hair and makeup artists, then tweaked on a Photoshop-like program. The photo-manipulation is then posted on a billboard for the fictional "Easel Foundation Makeup" brand. Two young, teenage girls walk past, glancing at the board. "No wonder our perception of beauty is distorted" ends the ad in text, "Every girl deserves to feel beautiful just the way she is."The creative team for the ad included Tim Piper, Mike Kirkland, Janet Kestin, Nancy Vonk, directors T Piper (treatment and post production) and Yael Staav (live action) from Reginald Pike, Soho post production, Rogue editing, Vapor music, Gabor Jurina and Make-up: Diana Carreiro, and Reginald Pike.The official French copy of the ad has only received 132 views, although it was only uploaded on November 2, 2006.Dove soaps continues their North American "Campaign for Real Beauty" advertising with a television commercial that explores the alterations that can be done on models.Labeled "a Dove film", the commercial is entitled "evolution". Beginning with a woman walking into a photo shoot. From there, she is primped and plucked by hair and makeup artists, then tweaked on a Photoshop-like program. The photo-manipulation is then posted on a billboard for the fictional "Easel Foundation Makeup" brand. Two young, teenage girls walk past, glancing at the board."No wonder our perception of beauty is distorted" ends the ad in text, "Every girl deserves to feel beautiful just the way she is."Dove runs the Dove Self-Esteem Fund as a part of their Campaign for Real Beauty. In the marketing campaign, Dove uses "real" women, instead of professional models, in an attempt to instill self-esteem in their customers.This continuing promotion, launched in 2004, was on the forefront of a current trend in Western culture to abandon the overly idealised images the media portrays of women. Recently some fashion capitals have mandated minimum body mass indexes for runway models. The top rated comedy in the United States and Canada is Ugly Betty, a series that stars an average girl coping at a fashion magazine. The series is based on Betty la Fea, an extremely popular Colombian telenovela, which has been reproduced internationally.Only two percent of women surveyed worldwide consider themselves beautiful, according to ABC Good Morning America co-anchor Robin Roberts, whose program debuted the commercial this morning at 8:07 am EST.The ad is currently playing on the Campaign for Real Beauty's homepage.You may not know Joseph Merlino, but he knows about you and what makes you function.  He knows what turns you on and he knows whether it is a problem for you.  Merlino, who is the psychiatry adviser to the New York Daily News, is one of the more accomplished psychiatrists in his field and he is the Senior Editor of the forthcoming book, Freud at 150: 21st Century Essays on a Man of Genius.  The battle over interpreting Freud's legacy still rages, a testament to the father of psychoanalysis and his continuing impact today.  On the eve of the book's publication, Wikinews reporter David Shankbone went to the Upper East Side of Manhattan to discuss the past and future of Freud and psychoanalysis with Dr. Merlino, one of the preeminent modern psychoanalysts.  Shankbone took the opportunity to ask about what insanity is, discuss aberrant urges, reflect upon sadomasochism ("I'm not considered an expert in that field," laughed Dr. Merlino),  and the hegemony of heterosexuality.  Dr. Merlino posits that absent structural, biochemical or physiological defects, insanity and pathology are relative and in flux with the changing culture of which you are a part.  So it is possible to be sane and insane all in one day if, for instance, you are gay and fly from the United Kingdom to Saudi Arabia.A spokesperson for the parents of Britney Spears went on The Today Show to speak out against television psychologist Dr. Phil McGraw, whom they feel exploited the family's trust.Lou Taylor went on the NBC morning show to say that when they "extended trust" to "Dr. Phil", as he's known, it was as a medical professional and not as a television personality. They say he was to keep the matters private.McGraw was "not invited to make this part of the public display, part of the media," said Taylor on behalf of father Jamie Spears and mother Lynne Spears.Taylor was responding to McGraw realizing a statement about Spears, and then appearing for an interview on the Entertainment Tonight entertainment news program. McGraw's statement read:Originally it was rumored that the family would appear on Dr. Phil for one of the news headline-based special episodes. Taylor also told interviewer Meredith Viera that the family had never discussed such plans. They had only hired McGraw to talk privately to Spears, one of "many professionals and many resources surrounding the family."According to Taylor, the Spears parents, along with pregnant daughter Jamie Lynn "are people who love their daughter, and know what's going on," praying every day for her well-being. They are broken hearted regarding "the morbidity of people watching" the breakdown.Spears was hospitalized after being deemed a safety risk to herself, but released within 24 hours, instead of the 72 hour norm.Since July 2, 2004 the Elbe Valley near Dresden has been in the process of becoming a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Friday saw the hand over of the documents in Castle Albrechtsberg confirming the status. Today, mayor Roßberg and Professor Bandarin will unveil a plaque in the church of Loschwitz - starting the Elbe Valley celebrations.The cultural landscape consists of an 18 km long strip along the Elbe between Soebrigen and the Dresden bridge Flügelwegbrücke. It includes the ancient city of Dresden, the many castles along the river Elbe, the town centres of the small villages near the river as well as the very famous Castle Pillnitz.The city of Dresden sees the status as an internationally-effecting advertisement for investors and tourists in the acknowledgment as a site of world heritage.  By this status it will give no further restrictions for the UNESCO. The possibility "of a developing culture landscape" granted itself.Comedian Drew Carey has announced that he will be the new host of the American game show The Price Is Right, replacing outgoing longtime host Bob Barker.Carey revealed this on a taping of The Late Show with David Letterman, which, like The Price is Right, airs on CBS."It's a done deal. I'm the new host of 'The Price Is Right'," said Carey during The Late Show taping which airs tonight.Carey was previously the star of his own sitcom on rival network ABC's sitcom The Drew Carey Show as well as the same network's improv show Whose Line Is It Anyway?. He was also recently named as host of another CBS game show, Power of 10.Barker retired from being the host of the show for 35 years and appeared as the host for the final time on June 15.240,000 U2] fans are preparing for Ireland's most successful band ever to return for a hometown gig in Dublin. The supergroup is playing Friday, Saturday and Monday in front of 80,000 people a night at Croke Park. Gardaí have put in place a massive traffic management plan to cope with the influx of people. Fans have been queing since Thursday morning when a group of fans from Holland, Italy and Canada started queuing outside the stadium.The concert forms part of U2's current "Vertigo" world tour. The support acts include emerging Irish bands Snow Patrol and The Thrills along with already very popular Paddy Casey. Ash and The Bravery will cap it off as warm up acts on Monday.The gates for the gig will open at 4pm with the actual band not expected until around 8.30pm. Irish media has entered a frenzied anticipation of the concert all this week, with constant coverage on radio stations. The national broadcaster, RTÉ, is set to dedicated almost 3hr 30min to the band with an exclusive interview by Dave Fanning forming the centerpiece of the stations coverage of the "U2 weekend". Coldplay frontman Chris Martin, who played in front of a sell out crowd in Dublin earlier this week told fans that U2 were "still the best band in the world".Croke Park is the fourth largest stadium in Europe, with an official capacity of 82,000 - bigger than both Cardiff's Millennium Stadium and Paris' Stade de France. Croke Park is used to host GAA matches in sports such as hurling and Gaelic football and regularly attracts audiences of 60,000 or more in the summer months.On Sunday, Dublin's Lord Mayor Mícheál MacDonncha spoke about not sending Irish representatives to the next year's Eurovision Song Contest, asserting Palestine solidarity. The announcement came just one day after Israeli singer Netta won this year's Eurovision in Portuguese capital Lisbon. Two European Parliament lawmakers from Ireland, Lynn Boylann and Nessa Childers, endorsed boycotting next year's contest.Speaking to news site Dublin Live, MacDonncha said next year's contest should be boycotted to display solidarity with Palestineans. "I don't think we should send a representative", the mayor said. "I think the horrific ordeal of the Palestinian people needs to be highlighted", MacDonncha said.After winning this year's contest, 25-year-old Netta, who performed Toy featuring chicken dance, chicken noises, and Japanese cultural references criticized as cultural appropriation, said, "Thank you for celebrating diversity. Thank you! I love my country. Next year in Jerusalem!" The country which wins the song contest hosts next year's iteration of Eurovision. Israel claims Jerusalem, including East Jerusalem. Palestine claims East Jerusalem as the capital of their future state. Israel-Palestine conflict is on-going for years. Clashes between Israel and Palestine has happened several times. This Monday, more than 50 Palestine civilians were killed in Gaza in a clash against Israeli forces.Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in a tweet congratulated Netta after her victory and said, "Netta, you are a real dear. You brought a lot of honour to the State of Israel! Next year in Jerusalem!" ((he))Hebrew language: ‍!נטע, את כפרה אמיתית. הבאת הרבה כבוד למדינת ישראל! לשנה הבאה ב Israel came to control East Jerusalem as a part of the 1967 Arab-Israel War. Legal sovereignty of Israel's claim of the entire city is not globally acknowledged. Until this Monday, no country in the world had its Israeli embassy in Jerusalem; On Monday, Israel's ally the United States shifted its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.MacDonncha, speaking to Dublin Live, said, "The Irish-Palestinean solidarity campaign has collected names of 500 artists who have said they would not work in the State of Israel, that they would boycott in the protest and the treatment of Palestinean people". At the time of the contest, Ireland regional lawmaker Órla Nic Biorna tweeted, "Shocked at the support for Israel tonight in the Eurovision. People seem to forget that they [Israel] are a Zionist state illegally occupying Palestine". Regarding hosting the contest in Jerusalem, European Parliament lawmaker Nessa Childers wrote on Twitter, "Jerusalem? The mind boggles. I thought Tel Aviv." Lynn Boylan of the Sinn Féin party tweeted saying, "Israel wins Eurovision so let's make BDS [Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions] more successful than ever in 2019." Lawmaker Emmett O'Brien replied to Boylan saying "So much pathetic hate against Israel" and later added, "How many times has Palestine been offered peace? Will you condemn the barbarity of Hamas?"MacDonncha is banned from entering Israel. Last month, the Israeli Interior ministry tried to bar MacDonncha's entry to Israel. The mayor was invited by the Palestinian Authority for a conference. However, reportedly the misspelt name of MacDonncha failed to bar him from arriving at Israeli capital Tel Aviv from which he went to Ramallah for the conference. Earlier, the Dublin city council passed a resolution to endorse and support the Palestine-led Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions movement. The resolution read, "Since its violent establishment in 1948 through the ethnic cleansing of more than half of the indigenous people of Palestine, the state of Israel has denied Palestinians their fundamental rights and has refused to comply with international law [...] this City Council fully supports and endorses the Palestinian-led Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions movement for freedom, equality, and justice."Dublin's mayor wasn't the only one to promote a boycott. Swedish political party Vänsterpartiet Malmö released a statement boycotting the next year's Eurovision saying, "We in the Left Party of Malmö think it is vital to do everything to condemn the crimes committed by Israel against the Palestinian people. We therefore urge the Eurovision Song Contest to boycott Israel. It is altogether unreasonable for Israel to host this gigantic music contest while the occupation goes on. We want Israel to be excluded from Eurovision on humanitarian grounds. We can not continue dancing while the persecution of the Palestinian people continues. Boycott Israel now!" ((sv))Swedish language: ‍Vi i Vänsterpartiet Malmö menar att det är av största vikt att göra allt för att fördöma de brott som Israel begår mot det palestinska folket. Vi uppmanar därför Eurovision Song Contest att bojkotta Israel. Det är fullständigt orimligt att Israel får arrangera denna gigantiska musiktävling samtidigt som ockupationen pågår. Vi vill att Israel utesluts från Eurovision på humanitära grunder. Vi kan inte fortsätta dansa samtidigt som övergreppen mot det palestinska folket fortsätter. Bojkotta Israel nu!British media has reported that Prince William and his recently wedded wife, Kate, are to move their London residence into Kensington Palace, close to Hyde Park. Two units in the Palace, labeled Apartments 8 and 9, were previously occupied by Prince Charles and Diana, William's parents, when they married in 1981. Prince William and his brother Prince Harry went to nursery and school nearby. Diana also lived in Kensington Palace after her separation and divorce from Prince Charles.However, the newlyweds will not live in Apartments 8 and 9, as they are currently being used as office space. They will instead live in a small apartment that was previously occupied by staff. The palace has undergone some renovations, including asbestos removal.The couple is also set to choose one "housekeeper-dresser", who will provide valet service for the Duchess of Cambridge. Kate will continue to buy her own clothes, and the new servant is not to be seen as a "stylist". The position has been advertised internally within Buckingham Palace. The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expected to move within a few weeks, before they leave on a trip to Canada and the United States. The London residence is expected to be used only as a starter home for about a year. The couple will keep their permanent residence without personal staff in Anglesey, Wales, where William serves on the Royal Air Force as a search-and-rescue pilot. They will continue to run their Household Office at St James's Palace.The Duke of Edinburgh, the husband of the current British monarch, today departed from the London Clinic, located in the centre of the British capital, after eleven days. Prince Philip, who is aged 92, was hospitalised on June 6 to be given exploratory surgery on his abdomen.According to the BBC, it was thought the Prince would remain in hospital for two weeks. The abdominal surgery was pre-planned, Buckingham Palace previously reported, although the reasons why this surgery was arranged have not been publicised.The Duke of Edinburgh missed numerous royal occasions while he was in the private building, including the Trooping the Colour on June 15 to celebrate the Queen's Official Birthday. As he was staying in the Clinic, over a thousand cards were sent to the Duke. Also, members of the British Royal Family, including Charles, Prince of Wales; Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex; Prince William, Duke of Cambridge; Prince Harry of Wales; and his wife, Elizabeth II, visited him.A Buckingham Palace statement said the Duke was in "good condition and good spirits", adding that he would take a two month time period to recover. "The Duke has expressed his thanks and appreciation to medical staff at the London Clinic and the many members of the public who have sent good wishes", the statement added. ITV News Royal Correspondent Tim Ewart commented, "for a man of 92, who spent 11 nights in hospital, the Duke looked extraordinarily fit."The No. 1 ranked Duke Blue Devils lost to the unranked  Florida State Seminoles 79-74 at FSU.The loss drops the Blue Devils to 27-2 (14-1 in the ACC) while FSU improves to 18-8 (8-7 in the ACC).The Seminoles were led by Al Thornton, who was 15 for 16 at the freethrow line and scored 26 points in 36 minutes of play.  Alexander Johnson brought in 22 points for FSU, shooting 10 of 13 at the line and bringing in 13 rebounds.Senior J.J. Redick led the Blue Devils with 30 points, including 4 three point shots, and fellow senior Shelden Williams had 20 points and 16 rebounds.  Florida State fans swarmed the court with 1.7 seconds left to play, when the team was ahead 77-72.  Duke coach Mike Krzyzweski sent all but the 5 Blue Devil players on the court to the locker room.  The Seminoles were assessed a team technical foul, and Redick shot two free throws before play commenced.  This marks Duke's first ACC loss of the season.  In an earlier matchup, Duke narrowly escaped FSU at Cameron Indoor Stadium 97-96 in overtime.Dave Arneson, co-creator of the first roleplaying game, Dungeons and Dragons, died on Tuesday of cancer, at the age of 61.A close friend of Arneson, Bob Meyer, reported on April 5 that he had taken a turn for the worse and was admitted to a hospital.  Family later confirmed that he was in a facility "where we can focus on keeping him comfortable."  Reported at that time, the doctor indicated that he had days to live.The Academy of Adventure Gaming Arts and Design in 1984 inducted Arneson  into their Hall of Fame.  Pyramid Magazine in 1999 named him as one of The Millennium's Most Influential Persons, "at least in the realm of adventure gaming".Arneson started out as a wargamer including naval games. He soon developed some for his personal use due to the major publishers' slow release of games.  With David Wesley and the other members of the Midwest Military Simulation Association, Arneson developed the basis of modern role-playing games with individual miniatures representing one person and having non-military objectives.  Arneson attended the University of Minnesota as a history student.  He was a founder, along with Gary Gygax, of the Castle & Crusade Society as a medieval miniature chapter of the International Federation of Wargamers.  With Gygax in 1972, he authored Don't Give Up the Ship!, a naval wargame.Arneson's Blackmoor was the first role-playing game, a genre in which players describe their characters in thorough detail and can attempt almost any action the character plausibly could.  Ernest Gary Gygax, then a close friend of Arneson, worked with him during 1972–73 to develop the extensive set of rules (in this case three volumes) that such a game requires.  This became the first edition of Dungeons & Dragons.  With his experience with David Wesley, Arneson tried it with fantasy miniatures free style calling his game, Blackmoor.  He then latched on Gygax's Chainmail miniature game and Fantasy supplement for resolution of battles.  He showed Gygax what he was doing.  Gygax got involved and started preparing a set of rules to supplement Chainmail.  They shopped the game, Dungeons & Dragons, around to various gaming companies but got turned down.  Gygax started a business partnership, Tactical Studies Rules, to publish the game in 1974.  The game launched a whole new category in gaming. Although not involved with rulebooks for later editions of D&D, Arneson did create adventure modules for later editions.Ernest Gary Gygax, co-creator of Dungeons & Dragons, died in his Lake Geneva, Wisconsin home on Tuesday at the age of 69 due to heart problems.Dave Arneson's Blackmoor was the first role-playing game, a genre in which players describe their characters in thorough detail and can attempt almost any action the character plausibly could. Gygax, then a close friend of Arneson, worked with him during 1972-73 to develop the extensive set of rules (in this case three volumes) that such a game requires. This became the first edition of Dungeons & Dragons. He also fleshed out the default setting for the game, a "sword-and-sorcery" world inspired primarily by fantasy fiction such as Three Hearts and Three Lions. He then founded TSR Inc. to publish the game; although it was a runaway success, financial difficulties ultimately forced the company to sell itself to Wizards of the Coast, which currently publishes the game and is now a subsidiary of Hasbro.Although not involved with later editions of D&D, Gygax later worked on other role-playing games and wrote fantasy novels. He also designed niche-market board games.Dungeons & Dragons is considered a tabletop RPG, since it is played with pen, paper, dice and miniature figures. It inspired other tabletop RPGs (such as GURPS), as well as video RPGs (such as the Final Fantasy series). The most recent form of RPG is the massively-multiplayer online roleplaying game, such as World of Warcraft. An estimated 20 million people worldwide have played the game. Magazines, print and web comics and independent bands have been dedicated to the game, as have thousands of fan websites.Gygax's death comes mere months before the scheduled release of the 4th Edition of D&D in June, as well as a scheduled "GM Day" among D&D fans on the internet.A Dutch reality TV show broadcast yesterday evening which was designed to show a terminally ill woman choosing a patient to receive her kidneys has been shown to be a hoax. The Big Donor Show had attracted considerable condemnation earlier in the week when outline details had been released. The producers said that the programme was made to highlight the shortage of Dutch donors.The "donor", known only as "Lisa", was an actress, although the three individuals competing for the kidneys are real patients requiring kidney transplants. The choice was to have been made based on the history and profile of the "contestants" and conversations that the actress is indicated to have had with their families and friends. Viewers were also invited to send in their advice by text message during the programme.At the point in the show when the choice of recipient was to have been revealed, the show's presenter Patrick Lodiers revealed that the exercise had been a hoax. "We are not giving away a kidney here, that is going too far even for us," he said.Political parties in The Netherlands together with medical organisations and kidney specialists had united in condemning the programme prior to its broadcast. Joop Atsma of the ruling Christian Democratic Party had said "It's a crazy idea. It can't be possible that, in the Netherlands, people vote about who's getting a kidney." Professor John Freehally, immediate past President of the UK Renal Association stated that "the scenario portrayed in this programme is ethically totally unacceptable", continuing that the show would cause confusion and anxiety rather than contributing further to an understanding of transplants. He also pointed out that the set up of the programme bears no relationship to the processes for making decisions about transplants in normal circumstances.However, speaking after the broadcast, Dutch Minister for Education, Culture and Science Ronald Plasterk, claimed that the show was a "fantastic stunt" and kidney patient Caroline Klingers watching the programme at a treatment centre in the town of Bussum praised it saying that it would be "good for the publicity and there are no losers".Speaking at a news conference after the programme, a producer said "We have only done this cry for help because we want to solve a problem that shouldn't be a problem", and this view was underlined by presenter Patrick Lodiers who claimed that it was "reality that was shocking" in that about 200 people die in the Netherlands each year waiting for a kidney where the average waiting time is more than four years. Bart de Graaff, the founder and former director of the TV station which broadcast the programme, died from kidney failure at the age of 35 after spending years on a transplant waiting list.The programme was made by Endemol, the company which makes Big Brother and which is not immune from criticism. On Wednesday of this week it was required by UK regulator Ofcom to broadcast an apology for its handling of potentially racist material involving Indian actress Shilpa Shetty in the January 2007 Celebrity Big Brother in the UK. Ofcom had received a record number of 44,500 complaints.A British dwarf who was performing at the 'Edinburgh Festival' found his penis glued to a vacuum cleaner while preparing for a live show.Daniel Blackner, known as "Captain Dan the Demon Dwarf" performed at the Circus of Horrors, known for its oddball and offbeat performances. As part of the show, the dwarf pulls a Henry vacuum cleaner using a special attachment, across the show attached to his penis. However, the vacuum cleaner was broken before a performance and performer Blackner placed extra-strong glue on the attachment to fix it, neglecting to wait the entire 20 minutes required for the glue to dry, which resulted in his penis becoming glued to the vacuum cleaner.After being rushed to the A&E department of Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Blackner was freed after an hour and remarked that: "It was the most embarrassing moment of my life when I got wheeled into a packed A&E with a vacuum attached to me. I just wished the ground could swallow me up. Luckily, they saw me quickly so the embarrassment was short lived."Hospital sources confirmed that they treated the performer, but a spokesman for the Royal Infirmary said he could not comment on individual cases.The 60 Minutes correspondent Ed Bradley has died today at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York at the age of 65 after a struggle with leukemia."It's an incredibly sad day for everyone at CBS News. Ed was a phenomenal reporter and a great man," Senior Broadcast Producer Bill Owens told CBSNews. "Never have the words, 'he will be missed' meant more."Born and raised in Philadelphia, Bradley was diagnosed with leukemia two years ago. Bradley's condition worsened two weeks ago and he contracted pneumonia and succumbed to the disease.Yesterday, UK singer Ed Sheeran won the Grammy Award for  Song of the Year for his song Thinking Out Loud from his album × ahead of Kendrick Lamar's Alright; Wiz Khalifa's, featuring Charlie Puth, See You Again; Little Big Town's Girl Crush; and Taylor Swift's Blank Space. Girl Crush won the Grammy Award for Best Country Song.Welsh singer Amy Wadge co-wrote the song. Sheeran during the ceremony said they wrote the song on a couch in his house. In remarks to the Western Mail, Wadge said the album was already complete when they wrote the song.Thinking out Loud remained #2 on Billboard Hot 100 for almost two months, and topped the UK rankings last year. Its video song has 969 Million YouTube views and has more than four million likes. The song also won the Grammy Award for Best Pop Solo Performance.US singer Stevie Wonder announced the winner for the Song of the Year, and the envelope was written in Braille script. He joked about it saying "You can't read it, you can't read Braille!"Along with Ed Sheeran's first Grammy, Canadians The Weeknd and Justin Bieber won Grammy awards for the first time.The 60th Edinburgh Festival Fringe, the "world's largest arts festival" opened on Sunday, August 6. It features more than 1,800 shows put on by 17,000 performers in 260 venues. The Fringe now dominates the group of annual arts festivals that draw 750,000 visitors to Edinburgh every year, last year 1.3 million tickets were sold for Fringe shows. Anyone can register, pay a fee, find a venue and put on a show at the Fringe, famous for its quirky choice of venues - this year, they include a double-decker bus, a swimming pool, tree and a toilet; and "Hamlet" is being performed in a bouncy castle.An estimated 160,000 people watched the Fringe Festival Cavalcade, a jamboree of more than 3000 marchers, which marks the launch of the Fringe.Fringe director Gudgin urged audiences to be selective, saying that it would take five years, 11 months and 16 days to see all the shows back-to-back. The Festival is scheduled to end in August 28. A recent Edinburgh City Council study concluded the Fringe brought more than £75m to the local economy each year. The festival's job openings included rickshaw drivers, show announcers to shouts details of the impending show and tell the audience when it is time to take their seats, and collectors to pick up flyers that people throw away.Norwegian Police have said that the stolen Edvard Munch's The Scream and Madonna masterpiece paintings which were stolen by art thieves have been found.According to officers, the two paintings were recovered in "police action". "We are 100% certain they are the originals. The damage was much less than feared," police said. In a press conference in Oslo, Norway, police chief Iver Stensrud said: "For two years and nine days we have been hunting systematically for these pictures and now we've found them." He also added that police suspect the paintings had remained in Norway since they were taken. "We feel we have been hot on the trail of the paintings the whole time, but it has taken time," he said. They were stolen by art thieves in August 2004 from the Munch Museum in Oslo. Bjoern Hoen, 37, Petter Tharaldsen, 37, and Petter Rosenvinge, 34, were found guilty of stealing the paintings after a trial this May.  The Scream was completed in 1893. It is regarded by many as being one of Munch's most important pieces of work, and is his most recognizable piece amongst the general public. David Toska, the alleged mastermind of the "NOKAS robbery" was rumoured to have known the whereabouts of the paintings, and they may now have been recovered as a result of some sort of collaboration between him and Norwegian prosecutors. This might result in an improvement of Toska's public image (he's currently sentenced to 20+ years of prison time, after planning and executing a huge bank heist that led to the unfortunate death of a highly respected police officer.).English actor Edward Woodward has died today, aged 79. The actor was unwell for several months, suffering from a number of illnesses including pneumonia. He died in hospital in Cornwall, England.Born in Croydon, London, Woodward was perhaps best known for his role as Sergeant Howie in the 1973 cult British horror film The Wicker Man. The director of that film, Robin Hardy, described him as "one of the greatest actors of his generation" and "an extremely nice human being". His appearance in the Australian film Breaker Morant was also highly acclaimed.He began his career in theatre, starting out in 1946. He later worked across the country and internationally, appearing in the West End, London and Broadway, New York. In 1963 he was cast in Noël Coward's Broadway production High Spirits. Coward described him as "One of the nicest and most co-operative actors I have ever met or worked with. He is the only one who has given me no trouble at all."Woodward later appeared in over 2,000 television productions, notably starring in the American show The Equalizer in the 1980s, in addition to Callan on ITV in Britain. Outside of film and television, he recorded three albums of poetry and several LPs.Despite having triple heart bypass surgery in 1996, and being diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2003, he continued to work. His final television appearance was in six episodes of the British soap opera EastEnders earlier this year."He was a delight to work with, and delivered a characteristically touching and layered performance," said Diederick Santer, the executive producer of EastEnders. "Our thoughts are with his family."Woodward had two sons and a daughter from his first marriage, to Venetia Mary Collett in 1953. All three became successful actors. In 1987 he married the actress Michele Dotrice, with whom he had a daughter.The Egyptian national football team became Africa Cup of Nations champions for the sixth time in the history of the competition by beating the national team of Cameroon 1-0 in the Ohene Djan Stadium, Ghana.Mohamed Aboutreika scored the only goal in the game in the 77th minute after Cameroon failed to clear the ball from their area under a period of heavy attacking play. This was Aboutreika's 34th international goal for his country and was driven into the bottom corner of the net from a distance of 16yds. Egypt's victory closes the tournament, the 26th occasion the trophy has been contested, which began on 20 January 2008 and was hosted by Ghana. Ghana's national team came third overall with Côte d'Ivoire taking fourth place in the final standings. Cameroon and FC Barcelona player Samuel Eto'o was the tournament's highest goalscorer with 5 goals.Zahi Hawass, Egypt's pre-eminent archaeologist, and Secretary General of the  The Supreme Council of Antiquities, has announced that a rare statue constructed of white marble whose features resemble Alexander the Great has been discovered in Egypt. Hawass also stated that there are satellite photographs identifying many archeological sites which may also reveal buried monuments.Calliope Papacosta was leading the Greek archaeological excavation in Alexandria when the white marble statue was found."A ribbon around the head of the statue proves that it belongs to an important person for such ribbon was used only be[sic] rulers," said Hawass, "The 80 cm long, 23 cm wide statue has been discovered eight meters deep under the earth surface." Farouk Hosni, Egypt’s Culture Minister, is supporting archaeological dig sites and has set into place laws restricting illegal digging in confirmed archaeological sites which may contain historical monuments.  The monument photography project, National Authority for Remote Sensing, Space Sciences (NARRS) and Mubarak City for Scientific Research (MuCSAT) combined Satellites technology, aerial photography and ground laser to locate 132 sites which have not yet been excavated.  One of these sites is north of Lake Qarun in the Faiyum area, and another at Habu city.  Archaeologists are presently being sent out by the Egyptian Ministry of Tourism to areas before construction and building excavations to preserve invaluable archaeological treasures. At the Faiyum site near Cairo artifacts dating to diverse time periods have been found amongst these, an awl for stitching leather, fishing tackle, weapons, jewellery, pottery, coins, sawfish, whale fossils, and a 3150 BC block portraying one of the two leaders named King Scorpion.Meanwhile, in other archaeological news, Iran's three salt mummies found in the Chehrabad Salt Mine in 1993 will be moved to a technologically advanced vacuum chamber display case in Zanjan for better preservation.  These mummies or Salt Men have been dated as being from the Parthian 237 BCE - 224 CE and Sassanid era, 224 - 651 CE.An Egyptian man in his early twenties has named his newborn daughter 'Facebook' following the 2011 Egyptian Revolution which was almost solely organized on the social-networking site Facebook.  The father, Gamal Ibrahim, told the Egyptian newspaper Al-Ahram that he gave his child the name to "express his joy at the achievements made by the January 25 youth." The protests, which were largely organized on social media sites such as Twitter and Facebook, began on January 25 and led to the end of Hosni Mubarak's 30-year reign as president of Egypt.  The Al-Ahram report stated that, "The girl’s family, friends, and neighbors in the Ibrahimya region gathered around the new born to express their continuing support for the revolution that started on Facebook.  'Facebook' received many gifts from the youth who were overjoyed by her arrival and the new name. A name that shocked the entire world."The Egyptian spelling of 'Facebook' is فيس بوك.Salafist MP Younis Makhioun, of Egypt's religious and conservative al-Nour party, yesterday requested a debate on banning pornographic websites.In 2009, a court ordered such material banned, but the Ministry of Communications declined, citing individual responsibility. If a majority of the Islamist-dominated parliament supported a ban the ministry would then be able to enforce one. Around a quarter of seats belong to al-Nour.Although some sections of the public complained about limitations upon free expression and feared new powers could creep to include other forms of censorship, Makhioun said he did not feel porn counted as free speech. "These sites spread evil among different sects of the Egyptian society, [their] content is criminalised by Egyptian law as well as being a breach of religious beliefs and social values and morals," he said in calling for debate.The 2009 court ruling followed legal action describing porn sites as harmful to society, and the court noted "the harm that this material [can] cause to the fabric of the family." Despite this, figures from Google show Egypt in the top five nations searching the Internet for 'sex'.The New Open World Foundation will announce the results of the New Seven Wonders of the World election on July 7, 2007 (or 07.07.07). The ballot itself will close on midnight the day before. The Foundation proposes a revision of the ancient Seven Wonders of the World, of which only the Great Pyramid of Giza still exist.Among the 21 candidates left over after the previous election round ended on January 1, 2006, the Acropolis  and the Maya archeological site of Chichen Itza were doing well in earlier rankings. A spokeswoman for the Foundation said earlier this month that the result is wide open.The election ceremony will be held in Lisbon, Portugal. Hollywood actress Hilary Swank, British actor Sir Ben Kingsley and Bollywood  actress Bipasha Basu have been announced as hosts, astronaut Neil Armstrong will be present, and performers will include Jennifer Lopez and Chaka Khan.The California-based non-profit organization Electronic Frontier Foundation, as well as the Attorney General of Texas, has filed a law suit against Sony Computer Entertainment of America for their controversial use of anti-piracy software.The EFF claims that the digital rights management software on the CDs BMG Music (a subsidiary of Sony) produces acts as spyware, which the EFF claims is against Texas law. The program, known as XCP, is said to install software on one's system when they insert the CD into their computer for purposes such as adding to iTunes music software.Sony currently rejects the idea of XCP technology being considered as spyware, however they have agreed to replace CDs with the software and to temporarily discontinue the installation of it on their CDs.Among the controversy that Sony's moves to counter piracy have raised is the accusation that their software leaves a machine more vulnerable to attacks across the Internet.  A trojan horse has already been found in the wild that utilizes one of the anti-piracy software's functions.The 3D animated short film Elephants Dream, formerly known as Project Orange, was released to the Internet yesterday. The film is available under the Creative Commons Attribution License, allowing anyone to download, modify and distribute it. The 10-minute film has been called "the first open source movie" by NewsForge. Not only is the movie itself free content, even the computer files containing the 3D models used in the film are available under the same terms.The project was first announced one year ago and was jointly produced by the Blender Foundation and the Netherlands Media Art Institute. The film tells the story of Emo and Proog, two men trapped inside a surreal machine world. Only freely available open source software was used to create the movie. Most of the work was done using Blender, a 3D modelling and rendering tool. The Blender Foundation is selling an extended edition on DVD, which includes subtitles in 34 languages, a Making Of documentary, commentary tracks, and all files used to create the movie.In spite of the successful completion of the project, the Blender Foundation "has no intention to grow or expand into a company or studio" according to the project website. "Instead, the Foundation aims at endorsing and supporting activities within (educational) institutes, universities and companies."The Quebec Toponomy Commission, a Quebec public body which is responsible for naming places, cataloguing place names, and suggesting changes to their names, has announced in a press release on Friday that eleven locations in Quebec, whose names contain a racial slur, are to be renamed. The organization said they have yet to decide on the locations' future names. All of the places which are to be renamed include the racial slur nigger, or its French counterpart negre, in their names. Among the list of places to be renamed is Nigger Rapids, a section of the Gatineau River where a black couple drowned.Although Nigger Rapids was named after the Black couple, the Commission believed the name was no longer an appropriate way to remember them. The press release notes "Some of these place names, over time, testify to historical events" ((fr))French language: ‍Certains de ces noms de lieux, consacrés par l'usage, témoignent d'événements historiques, but adds that even though the racial slurs are "of ancient usage" ((fr))French Language: ‍d'usage ancien, they still "violate the dignity of the members of the black community." ((fr))French language: ‍porter atteinte à la dignité des membres de la communauté noire.The name changes came after Rachael Zellars, PhD candidate from McGill University, started a petition to rename the places. "Finally, importantly, we are insisting that the Rapids currently named, 'Nigger Rapids' in Bouchette, be renamed to memorialize the dead — that is, to honor the memory of the Black couple who struggled in this body of water and tragically died there in 1912. We want to know their names, just as we know Cartier, Champlain, etc. as markers for real human beings who lived and died in Quebec, rather than as racial or ethnic slurs", the petition said. 1,980 people have signed Zellars' petition.Zellars said the petition was her way of saying "let me show you some disagreement".The Commission has de-officialized the names in question.The Eleventh International Human Rights Documentary Film Festival Docudays UA, in Kyiv, Ukraine, ended on Friday.The Awards Ceremony was held in the Red Hall of the Kyiv Cinema House. There were 36 documentary films competing for prizes in three festival programs: DOCU/Short, DOCU/Right, DOCU/Life. There were also special prizes from Students’ Jury, Audience Award, and the Andriy Matrosov Award from Docudays UA Organizing Committee.The special guest of the Awards Ceremony was a symbol of the festival — Nikita Mikhalko. He is featured on the official posters of the festival. Nikita was on Maidan Nezalezhnosti on February 19, in the morning. The picture of him was chosen by the organizers as the "image that would deliver the spirit of our [Docudays UA] festival to the best of its possible might". The piece of movie where he is taking tangerines from a woman that morning has become the official trailer of the festival. The episode is featured in the opening film of the festival Euromaidan: Rough Cut. Thus Nikita and his burning glasses have become the symbols of the festival. The organizers decided to find out who the symbol of the festival was, and if he was alive. They have started looking for him and luckily, they were able to ask him to come as a special guest of the Awards Ceremony. Nikita had the opportunity to say on the microphone, "Slava Ukraini" (Glory to Ukraine), and have the whole hall hollering back at him, "Heroiam Slava" (Glory to the Heroes).The Eleventh Docudays UA Winners are (in the order of awarding):Audience AwardThe Audience Award went to Joanna, directed by Aneta Kopacz, Poland, 2013.Student's Jury AwardThe Students' Jury Award went to Tucker and the Fox, directed by Arash Lahooti, Iran, 2013, awarded for "an optimistic story about a life-long passion".DOCU/ShortJoanna, directed by Aneta Kopacz, Poland, 2013, received special mention. The jury chose it for "filmmaker's ability to be both intimate and discreet"Mom, directed by Lidia Sheinina, Russia, 2013, received special mention for "ability of the filmmaker to find in the closed world of one apartment 'things that quicken the heart'".The main prize went to Liza, Go Home!, directed by Oksana Buraja, Lithuania, Estonia, 2012. The film was awarded for "filmmaker's poetic sensibility and respect for other humans’ secrets".Andrei Zagdansky, a Ukrainian-American, was awarding. The other two members of the jury were Victoria Belopolskaya of Russia, and Stéphanie Lamorré of France.DOCU/RightNo Fire Zone: The Killing Fields of Sri Lanka, directed by Callum Macrae, UK, 2013, received special mention. The film was awarded for "the powerful use of video advocacy in global awareness-raising and opinion-shaping regarding the mass murders of civilians belonging to a Tamil minority in Sri Lanka".Captain and His Pirate, directed by Andy Wolff, Belgium, Germany, 2012, received special mention for "exceptional courage of the film crew and an outstanding presentation of international piracy phenomenon as presented by a victim and his prison guard".The main prize went to Mother’s Dream, directed by Valerie Gudenus, Switzerland, 2013. The jury awarded the film for "a highly sensitive, empathic, and artistic presentation of a controversial and socially resonant human rights problem, affecting the fates of women and children globally".Natalka Zubar of Ukraine announced the winners. The other two members of the jury were Andrzej Poczobut of Belarus, and Oksana Sarkisova of Hungary.DOCU/LifeCrepuscule, directed by Valentyn Vasyanovych, Ukraine, 2014, received special mention. The film was awarded for "a visually and emotionally superior depiction of human resilience, sensibility, and interdependence".Night Labor, directed by David Redmon and Ashley Sabin, USA, Canada, 2013, received special mention for "a provocative, atypical, allegorical description of industrial work and personal freedom".The main prize went to The Last Limousine, directed by Daria Khlestkina, Russia, 2014, awarded for "a dignified, compassionate portrayal of state-factory workers lost in transition, but not in humanity". The jury mentioned the film was perfectly casted.The whole jury was present: Boris Mitić of Serbia, Chris McDonald of Canada, and Simone Baumann of Germany.Andriy Matrosov Award from the Docudays UA Organizing CommitteeThe Andrey Matrosove Award went to A Diary of a Journey, directed by Piotr Stasik, Poland, 2013.After the ceremony The Last Limousine, the winning film of DOCU/Life program, was screened.The festival was first held in 2003, called at that time Docudays on Human Rights. In 2006 the festival was accepted as part of the international Human Rights Film Network at the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam. It is usually held during the last week of March.Sunday had Sydney celebrating the 40th birthday of the world famous, and UNESCO World Heritage Site, Sydney Opera House, in New South Wales, Australia. Thousands arrived early to take part in the free celebratory tour of the House, where they were also given one of 6,000 cupcakes made for the anniversary of the first official opening on October 20, 1973.Special guests included three-generations of the family of Jørn Utzon, who designed the landmark in 1957. Jan Utzon, the son of the House's architect, tells the ABC seeing his fathers dreams reflected in the tourist destination is "a tribute to the Australian spirit [...] It is a unique Australian expression of will and enthusiasm".Celebrations will continue over the next week, all keeping with the theme of the 'Australian spirit'. The first day of festivities saw rock legend Jimmy Barnes singing 'Happy Birthday' for the occasion, as well as traditional Aboriginal performances and a flotilla of iconic Australian lifeguards.A visit from the Danish royal couple and music concerts are just some of the confirmed events set to pay tribute to the iconic, multi-shell structured roof.The 15th Annual Elton John AIDS Foundation (EJAF) party will mark the Academy Awards 2007 to take place this Sunday, February 25th. The event will be held at the Pacific Design Center in West Hollywood, Los Angeles. Sir Elton John and David Furnish will co-host the party. As for this year's sponsors -  Audi, Chopard and VH1 have offered the Elton John Foundation their support. The Grammy nominated rock singer, James Blunt, has been invited to perform at the event.The annually held gala is found among the major fund-raising events organized by the Foundation. Taking place on the Oscar Night, the party is also aimed to attract international attention towards the fight against AIDS and promote people's awareness of the terrifying disease. During the period of the last 14 years the event has raised about $ 125 million to support the Foundation in its activities against AIDS, in particular HIV/AIDS prevention and special direct service programs implemented in 55 countries of the world.  The party to be held for the 15th time this year will include a big expanded dinner, live auction and musical performance. Among the guests of the party there will be entertainment community celebrities, Hollywood stars and Oscar winners, as well as the music industry representatives. Antony Todd, the leading designer of Antony Todd Inc. based in the New York City and involved into special event-designing, has been commissioned to turn Outdoor Plaza of the Pacific Design Center into to a festive arena staged in a designer rectangular tent.The release of the movie Avatar, written and directed by James Cameron, has generated increased interest in the field of constructed language, also known as conlang. Cameron asked American linguistics professor Paul Frommer to develop a language spoken by the extraterrestrial people in the film known as the Na'vi. Author J. R. R. Tolkien developed Elvish languages for his literary series The Lord of the Rings. The Elvish language was featured in scenes of The Lord of the Rings film trilogy, directed by Peter Jackson. The Klingon language (tlhIngan Hol) was developed by linguist Marc Okrand, initially for use in the 1984 film Star Trek III: The Search for Spock. Okrand drew inspiration from Klingon lines spoken by actor James Doohan in the film Star Trek: The Motion Picture; Doohan portrayed character Montgomery Scott in the Star Trek series. A dictionary for Klingon developed by Okrand, The Klingon Dictionary sold over 300,000 copies.Klingon became quite popular and has developed a usage among Star Trek fans. The Klingon Terran Research Ensemble in the Netherlands created an opera in Klingon. The play Hamlet by William Shakespeare was translated into Klingon. A German Trekkie who goes by the moniker Klenginem posted videos to YouTube where he raps songs he translated into Klingon by musician Eminem. Klenginem has been cited recently in pieces on constructed language in The New York Times, ABC News Nightline, and National Public Radio. "You know your alien language has taken off when a German guy translates rap songs into it," said National Public Radio of Klenginem.Linguistics professor Frommer received his PhD degree from the University of Southern California (USC), and subsequently shifted his focus into the business arena. He returned to USC to teach at the Marshall School of Business. Cameron tasked Frommer with creating an entire language for the Na'vi people.In an interview with Geoff Boucher of the Los Angeles Times, Frommer voiced hope that the language would continue to be used separate from the movie, as Klingon has. "I'm still working and I hope that the language will have a life of its own," said Frommer. The Na'vi language created by Frommer contains over 1,000 words, as well as a structural system and rules format for usage. Frommer told Vanity Fair that the language was fairly developed, commenting, "It’s got a perfectly consistent sound system, and grammar, orthography, syntax".Frommer explained the direction given to him before creating the language, "Cameron wanted something melodious and musical, something that would sound strange and alien but smooth and appealing." The Avatar writer-director provided Frommer with approximately three dozen words of the Na'vi language he used in his scriptment for the film. "That was the starting point. Probably the most exotic thing I added were ejectives, which are these sorts of popping sounds that are found in different languages from around the world. It's found in Native American languages and in parts of Africa and in Central Asia, the Caucasus," explained Frommer. Cameron and Frommer worked together for four years developing the language.The linguistics professor relied on inspiration provided by Cameron, and avoided drawing upon influences from Elvish, Klingon, and the international auxiliary language Esperanto. Sample words in the Na'vi language include "Uniltìrantokx" (oo-neel-tih-RAHN-tokx), meaning "Avatar", and "tireaioang" (tee-REH-ah-ee-o-ahng), which means "spirit animal". Maclean's reported that fans of Avatar were anxious for more instructive material from professor Frommer about the language in order to learn how to speak it with others that appreciated the film. "The response has been quite remarkable and totally unexpected. I never thought there’d be this level of interest. But I really don’t think of Na’vi as a competitor to Klingon. If it does develop a following, that would be quite wonderful," said Frommer of the response to the language from Avatar fans.The Na'vi language is itself a minor plot point in the film Avatar. The character Jake Sully portrayed by Sam Worthington endeavors to learn the language while living on Pandora. A botanist portrayed by actress Sigourney Weaver instructs a scientist played by actor Joel David Moore on how to become conversational in the language. Zoe Saldaña, the actress behind warrior princess Neytiri in Avatar, picked up the Na'vi language faster than her fellow cast members. "Zoe owned the language and everyone had to match her, even her accent," said Cameron. Saldaña remarked that the most difficult part about acting in the film was speaking in English with the accent of the Na'vi people. Cameron touted the rich nature of the Na'vi language in publicity for his film. "We wanted to 'out-Klingon' Klingon. The best sci-fi movies immerse the audience in that world until it doesn't seem alien to them," said Cameron to USA Today.Emma's Imagination, a solo music act otherwise identified as Emma Gillespie, has been declared as the winner of Must Be The Music, a music talent programme broadcast on Sky1 in the United Kingdom. As the winner of the series, Emma gains a prize of £100,000 (US$155,484, €119,061, A$164,130, C$159,968).Shortly after being declared as the winner, Scottish singer Gillespie - who defeated five other musical acts in the final - spoke to host Fearne Cotton: "I don't know what to say," she said in front of the live audience of 10,000. "Thank you so much for supporting me. I couldn't have done it without you. Thank you so much."Sharleen Spiteri, a member of Scottish music group Texas, is one of the three judges on Must Be The Music, alongside jazz-pop musician Jamie Cullum and rapper Dizzee Rascal. "I think there's going to be a lot of young people who might have sniffed at the idea of doing this sort of programme, who might see this as a different opportunity as musicians," Spiteri commented. "I think that's going to change everything."In Must Be The Music, artists competing on the programme had to compose and perform their own music. Music tracks from the semi-finalists had become available to download, with all profits being given to the singer-songwriters. "This Day", the single from Emma's Imagination, had already achieved number 12 in both the alternative music chart and the iTunes chart by the time of the series' conclusion, according to Sky News Online.Irvin Kershner, director of the second Star Wars movie The Empire Strikes Back, died Saturday at his home in Los Angeles, California aged 87; this followed a three-and-a-half year battle with lung cancer.  The announcement of his death was made Monday, by his god-daughter, Adriana Santini.His previous credits, working as a photographer and musician, included A fine madness and Eyes of Laura Mars, the latter of these being the inspiration for the creator of the Star Wars movies, George Lucas, to offer him the director's role for The Empire Strikes Back — something which he initially refused, only to be later persuaded because Lucas felt his attention to the development of characters was important.  Lucas later admitted he hadn't wanted to direct the sequel himself. Speaking of the director, Lucas said: "He knew everything a Hollywood director is supposed to know. [...] but was not Hollywood."He also gained recognition after being nominated for an Emmy, for the 1976 TV Movie Raid on Entebbe, an award which he didn't win, but which thrust him into the spotlight.As a director, Kershner went on to be the driving force behind Sean Connery's return to the role of James Bond, directing Never Say Never Again in 1983.  Moving further into the realms of Science Fiction, Kershner directed Robocop 2 in 1990.Kershner was not limited to behind the scenes work; he acted in two films, Martin Scorcese's The Last Temptation of Christ, in which he played Zebedee; and, starred as a film director in Stephen Seagal's On Deadly Ground.After a 244-year span in print, the Encyclopædia Britannica will discontinue its published volumes. With less than 1% of revenue coming from print versions, Jorge Cauz, Britannica's president, indicates there simply is not sufficient demand for the print publication. In the last 11 years demand has plummeted due to competition from Wikipedia and Britannica's own digital version.With a $1,395 price tag for the print version, many people have switched to the online version of Britannica or free sources such as Wikipedia. Critics of Britannica are often quick to point out that Wikipedia is regularly updated by tens of thousands of users on a wider range of topics. Britannica remains confident that their customers will appreciate their style of articles and the expert contributors.Britannica peaked in sales in 1990 with 120,000 sets sold. The 2010 edition will be the last in print and has sold 8,000 sets to date; with 4,000 sets remaining.Encyclopædia Britannica (EB), the authoritative reference book first published in 1768, is planning to let readers edit its entries, Jorge Cauz, its president said Friday, as it battles to keep pace with online Internet encyclopedia projects like Wikipedia. Starting next week, readers, visitors and contributing experts to EB's free, online version, Britannica.com, will be allowed to submit proposed changes and contributions to Britannica editors, who will then review the edits and make the necessary alterations.  This move is meant to let readers help keep the reference work up-to-date by collaboration. In expanding and maintaining entries online, users whose editorial suggestions are accepted and published entirely or in part will be credited by name in the section of the article that lists contributors.The new website features will be available on the site within the next twenty-four hours. According to the Sydney Morning Herald, "Cauz is promising a 20-minute turnover on these edits, but that number could go up dramatically if the company cannot anticipate a large influx of edits at once." Britannica, however, explained that it would not allow a Wikipedia form of editing which allows a wide range of users to make contributions. EB's novel user choice will include enrollment of experts in a reward scheme and invitation of selected readers to contribute.  Several readers will also be allowed to use Britannica materials to contribute their own articles that will be featured on the site. "We are not abdicating our responsibility as publishers or burying it under the now-fashionable 'wisdom of the crowds'," wrote Jorge Cauz in his blog. "We believe that the creation and documentation of knowledge is a collaborative process but not a democratic one," Cauz noted, explaining further that "these experts would sit alongside the encyclopaedia entries and the official material would carry a 'Britannica Checked' stamp, to distinguish it from the user-generated content."Cauz also announced the unveiling by Britannica of a beta (trial) version of what will become the finished Britannica Online website, which will include a re-design and the addition of web-based tools for readers and users to upload their own reference materials. The new features that Britannica will roll out over the next six months also include an article rating system and a comprehensive list of contributors by subject area.Articles developed by Britannica's own editors also appear in the printed volumes, which are published every two years, though material created by what Cauz called their "community of scholars" will only appear online.“Wikipedia contributes to the spread of information and many people are happy with it as their only source of reference, as are many people happy to eat McDonald’s every day,” said Cauz, who discussed differences between Britannica and Wikipedia features of online editing.  “That’s the last thing we want to be. We are a different type of animal, catering to a different type of crowd,” he added.Cauz said the company will retain its staff of about 100 full-time editors and over 4,000 expert contributors. “I think the future is likely going to be that in every media segment there has to be a symbiotic relationship between editor and reader,” said Cauz, adding that each article will have a detailed history showing changes and who made them, as in Wikipedia. In 1933, Britannica became the first encyclopaedia to introduce a "continuous revision" policy, with continuous reprinting such that every article is updated on a regular schedule.Unlike Wikipedia, which allows anonymous edits through a user's IP address being logged, Britannica's new features strictly require contributors or users to register, revealing their real names and addresses, prior to modifying or creating their own articles. Contributions from non-academic users will sit in a separate section.A new or changed feature called “Suggest Edit” button will allow readers of a particular article to suggest information clarification, post questions to contributors or add to the existing text, subject to Britannica editors' approval. "What we are trying to do is shifting … to a much more proactive role for the user and reader where the reader is not only going to learn from reading the article but by modifying the article and - importantly - by maybe creating his own content or her own content," wrote Cauz.Cauz faulted Google for setting Wikipedia higher in pagerank than Britannica. He explained that, in EB, new efforts to participate in online collaboration of encyclopedic content are deemed by recognizing experts as a requirement in order to achieve objectivity and high quality. During his tenure, officials from Britannica have become outspoken in their criticism of Wikipedia articles' contents. In July 2006, Cauz personally entered the fray in an interview in New Yorker Magazine, in which he stated that Wikipedia had "decline(d) into a hulking, mediocre mass of uneven, unreliable, and, many times, unreadable articles" and that "Wikipedia is to Britannica as American Idol is to the Juilliard School."The 241-year-old publication, Encyclopædia Britannica, is a general English-language encyclopaedia published by a privately held company, Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc., and is the oldest English-language encyclopaedia still in print. The Britannica articles are directed at educated adult readers. First published between 1768 and 1771 in Edinburgh, Scotland, it quickly grew in popularity and size, with its third edition in 1801 reaching over 21 volumes.Britannica's latest 15th edition has a unique three-part structure: a 12-volume Micropædia of short articles (generally having fewer than 750 words), a 17-volume Macropædia of long articles (having from two to 310 pages) and a single Propædia volume created to give a hierarchical outline of human knowledge. The Micropædia is devised for quick fact-checking and as a door to the Macropædia.At present, Britannica offers optical disc, online and mobile versions. The Britannica Ultimate Reference Suite 2006 DVD has over 55 million words and just over 100,000 articles, including 73,645 regular Britannica articles. The Encyclopædia Britannica Online website has more than 120,000 articles and is updated regularly. EB's virtual space was founded in 1994 and contains articles comprised of over 46 million words.In February 2007, Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. said that it was working with AskMeNow to launch a mobile encyclopedia, to enable users to send questions via text messages. Replies would then be forwarded by AskMenow based on Britannicas' articles. As Britannica is a business, the company needed to charge, and Web access to the archives cost $70 a year. In April 2008, "Britannica Webshare," a version of the online Encyclopaedia Britannica has been available for free, but only for Web publishers. The simple process requires signing up, giving a site URL, a description, and approval by the company. “This program is intended for people who publish with some regularity on the Internet, be they bloggers, webmasters, or writers. We reserve the right to deny participation to anyone who in our judgment doesn’t qualify,” said TechCrunch.In June 2008, Britannica announced an initiative to facilitate collaboration between online expert and amateur scholarly contributors for Britannica's on-line content (in the spirit of a wiki), with editorial oversight from Britannica staff. According to its statement titled "Britannica's New Site: More Participation, Collaboration from Experts and Readers," approved contributions would be credited, though contributing automatically grants Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. perpetual, irrevocable license to those contributions.PC World has, however, reported that it became clear how steep of a climb Britannica faces. "Wikipedia received a massive 97 percent share of the online encyclopedia market or visits U.S. Web surfers made to online encyclopedias last week," Web monitoring company Hitwise said Friday. "MSN Encarta was second with 1.27 percent of visits, followed by Encyclopedia.com (0.76 percent), Fact Monster (0.72 percent) and, in fifth place, Britannica.com (0.57 percent). Britannica.com's share of U.S. visits dropped 53 percent last month compared with December 2007," Hitwise added.While Britannica.com has 1.5 million visitors per day, Wikipedia attracts about six million, The Times reported. Hitwise also said that as of last week, Wikipedia ranked the 13th-most-visited site on the Web overall, while Britannica.com was 2,349th. The essential difference is Wikipedia does not charge any fee, while Britannica.com requires a paid subscription for access of some contents. Britannica, however, is issuing a "Encyclopaedia Britannica 2009 Ultimate Edition" - the £40 2009 DVD edition of its famous print encyclopaedia."One of the big questions still on the table is whether Britannica will open its content or maintain its premium membership paid wall. In order to compete with Wikipedia in the Google [search results], Britannica needs to build up inbound links. If content is locked up behind the paid content walls, people will be much more likely to link to other websites with free content -- such as that available on Wikipedia," Hitwise analyst Heather Hopkins noted.Wikipedia, a not-for-profit collaborative online encyclopedia, in its Wikipedia Foundation's recent drive for public donations, had aimed to raise $US6 million over the course of six months. On January 1, "it had met the target, from more than 125,000 donors," said Wikipedia head honcho and co-founder Jimmy Wales. He has invoked Wikipedia's "free-culture movement", and its mission "to bring free knowledge to the planet, free of charge and free of advertising"."Wikipedia is the new frontier of human knowledge," wrote Anonymous, donating $US100. American Patrick Culligan left another comment, saying, "Accurate information is what enables society to act in the appropriate way in which we can change the world. History cannot be left for the winners to write." Another said: "Wikipedia is one of those 'big ideas' which will change our world for the better."After Encyclopedia Britannica's announcement that it is introducing a more open editing system, web 2.0 giant Wikipedia has considered attempts to move away from its free and open editing system. Academics, scholars and others have long criticized the writing principles fostered by Wikipedia amid vandals having often changed Wikipedia entries resulting to erroneous reports. Now, for the first time, the online encyclopedia has considered restricting the edits that users can make. The system known internally as "Flagged Revisions," has been sparked off by inaccurate changes after a Wikipedia user "Gfdjklsdgiojksdkf" and an anonymous editor respectively edited articles to say that both U.S. Senators Ted Kennedy and Robert Carlyle Byrd had died. The errors were caught and duly corrected after about five minutes, but they were up long enough for the Washington Post, among other media outlets, to notice.In just the latest incidents in a long and rich history of vandalism since its 2001 launch, Vernon Kay and Apple's CEO Steve Jobs, among others, have also been falsely reported as dead on Wikipedia. Wiki means "fast" in Hawaiian and it certainly is, even amid subtle vandalism, since anyone can amend its 2.7m entries. Wikipedia has long struggled with such prankery, and has ever since worked closely with its community to overcome it without adopting harsh protections. As Wikipedia itself acknowledges, "Allowing anyone to edit Wikipedia means that it is more easily vandalized or susceptible to unchecked information, which requires removal." In the proposed process, only registered or reliable users could have their material or edits immediately appear to the general public visiting Wikipedia. Other contributors' edits or changes will first be reviewed, signed off, or “flagged” by reliable users. “This nonsense would have been 100 percent prevented by Flagged Revisions,” said Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales under the header “Why I Am Asking Flagged Revisions Be Turned On Now,” on his user page. “[Instances of misinformation] could [...] have been prevented by protection or semi-protection, but [..] [many are] breaking news [stories] and we want people to be able to participate (so protection is out) and even to participate in good faith for the first time ever (so semi-protection is out)," explained Wales who calls for monitoring to prevent false entries.   Wales said that a poll revealed 60 percent of Wikipedians favored the new proposal and that it would be a “time limited test.” He noted that the delay should be less than the German Wikipedia allowed: “less than 1 week, hopefully a lot less, because we will only be using it on a subset of articles, the boundaries of which can be adjusted over time to manage the backlog.”Wales issued a statement requesting implementation of the extension: “To the Wikimedia Foundation: per the poll of the English Wikipedia community and upon my personal recommendation, please turn on the flagged revisions feature as approved in the poll.” But the community response was further debate. As of February 2, his request hasn't been implemented.Apparently the Wikipedia German edition has been using a form of the Flagged Revisions system since May as a test case. It has, however, led to a delay of up to three weeks in getting some new articles and edits published, for critics have said that the system is very labor intensive and comments can take weeks to appear. Wales, however, pointed out that the system he was proposing was only for biographies of living people. Wikipedia has provided comprehensive and up-to-minute entries on the Virginia Tech massacre in April 2007 and the Mumbai terrorist attacks this past November as the events were still taking place.While some participants in the debate have argued that the rule change is unnecessary, some have described it in terms of an ethical imperative. As one administrator wrote: "In the vast majority of cases, a Wikipedia article on an individual will be the very highest-ranking search engine result when a search is conducted on the name of that person. This affects the lives of the people we write about on a daily basis. To suggest that Wikipedia does not have profound obligations to do its best to keep these articles free of defamatory, gossipy and privacy-invading material is to suggest that we are without obligation to consider the real-world impacts of our actions and the work we are doing." Others have argued that practical considerations should prevent a change that could result in a large backlog of unreviewed edits. "Flagged revisions will suffocate under its own weight," claimed administrator DragonflySixtyseven. Still other Wikipedian editors further argue that the current system works just fine.Some consider the split could ultimately threaten the future of the dominant online encyclopedia. "The big issue is that while we have majority support, we don't have consensus, and that's the way we have always made our decisions," Jake Wartenberg user and member of RC patrol chimed in. "A lot of editors are becoming disenchanted with the project; we are losing them all the time," he added. By way of reply, amidst the embarrassing debacle, Mr. Wales has reached out to help and offered a compromise, inviting the opposition to submit alternative suggestions until the 29th of January.“Implementing this functionality is really a volunteer community decision. We know the discussion about flagged revs is still taking place on English Wikipedia, but at this stage, it appears the majority of the community are behind this decision. As that discussion unfolds, we’ll have a better sense of the timing,” Jay Walsh, a spokesman for the Wikimedia Foundation, in a rejoinder, wrote in his e-mail message, explaining the status of the proposed restriction."Now seems an excellent time for Wikipedia to pause and take stock. It has proved the surprising wisdom of crowds as well as their utter idiocy. Its challenge now is to harness the enthusiasm of those volunteers while becoming a more reliable, better written source. And at some point, surely, its founders might want to turn it into a commercial venture. As Samuel Johnson almost said: "No one but a blockhead ever edited, excepted for money," said Iain Hollingshead, a British freelance journalist and novelist."The suggestion of increased moderation on Wikipedia would divide the community. The site has built its reputation on being 'the encyclopedia that anyone can edit'. It's less radical to be 'the encyclopedia that anyone can edit as long as their edits are approved by a trusted Wikipedian' but that's what co-founder Jimmy Wales has suggested. Wikipedia's openness is its strength," said Shane Richmond of The Daily Telegraph, asking, "is it most valuable feature its openness or its accuracy?"Wales' position is that "I consider our BLP issue to be so important that I think it is actually unethical to not use a tool which holds great promise for helping with the problem, now that it has been successfully tested elsewhere. Anyone who would like to see this tool not go into practice needs to start by convincing people that either (a) it is OK for the BLP vandalism problem to continue or (b) there is a better way to solve it."According to ornithologists, a rare Philippines buttonquail feared to have gone extinct was recently documented alive by a cameraman inadvertently filming a local market, right before it was sold and headed for the cooking pot. Scientists had suspected the species—listed as "data deficient" on the 2008 International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List Category—was extinct. Last month, native bird trappers snared and successfully caught the Luzon Buttonquail (Turnix worcesteri or Worcester's buttonquail) in Dalton Pass, a cold and wind-swept bird passageway in the Caraballo Mountains, in Nueva Vizcaya, located between Cordillera Central and Sierra Madre mountain ranges, in Northern Luzon. The rare species, previously known to birders only through drawings based on dead museum specimens collected several decades ago, was identified in a documentary filmed in the Philippines called Bye-Bye Birdie.British birder and WBCP member Desmond Allen was watching a January 26 DVD-video of  a documentary, Bye-Bye Birdie, when he recognized the bird in a still image of the credits that lasted less than a second. Allen created a screenshot, which was photographed by their birder-companion, Arnel Telesforo, also a WBCP member,in Nueva Vizcaya's poultry market, before it was cooked and eaten.i-Witness: The GMA Documentaries, a Philippine documentary news and public affairs television show aired by GMA Network, had incorporated Telesforo's photographs and video footage of the live bird in the documentary, that was created by the TV crew led by Mr Howie Severino. The Philippine Network had not realized what they filmed until Allen had informed the crew of interesting discovery.Mr Severino and the crew were at that time, in Dalton Pass to film "akik", the traditional practice of trapping wild birds with nets by first attracting them with bright lights on moonless nights. "I'm shocked. I don't know of any other photos of this. No bird watchers have ever given convincing reports that they have seen it at all... This is an exciting discovery," said Allen. The Luzon Buttonquail was only known through an illustration in the authoritative book by Robert S. Kennedy, et al, A Guide to the Birds of the Philippines. This birders "bible" includes a drawing based on the skins of dead specimens collected a century ago, whereas the otherwise comprehensive image bank of the Oriental Bird Club does not contain a single image of the Worcester's Buttonquail.“With the photograph and the promise of more sightings in the wild, we can see the living bill, the eye color, the feathers, rather than just the mushed-up museum skin,” exclaimed Allen, who has been birdwatching for fifty years, fifteen in the Philippines, and has an extensive collection of bird calls on his ipod. He has also spotted the Oriental (or Manchurian) Bush Warbler, another rare bird which he has not seen in the Philippines. “We are ecstatic that this rarely seen species was photographed by accident. It may be the only photo of this poorly known bird. But I also feel sad that the locals do not value the biodiversity around them and that this bird was sold for only P10 and headed for the cooking pot,” Wild Bird Club of the Philippines (WBCP) president Mike Lu said. “Much more has to be done in creating conservation awareness and local consciousness about our unique threatened bird fauna. This should be an easy task for the local governments assisted by the DENR. What if this was the last of its species?” Lu added.“This is a very important finding. Once you don’t see a bird species in a generation, you start to wonder if it’s extinct, and for this bird species we simply do not know its status at all," said Arne Jensen, a Danish ornithologist and biodiversity expert, and WBCP Records Committee head.According to the WBCP, the Worcester’s buttonquail was first described based on specimens bought in Quinta Market in Quiapo, Manila in 1902, and was named after Dean Conant Worcester.Since then just a few single specimens have been photographed and filmed from Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet, and lately, in 2007, from Mountain Province by the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, Illinois.Dean Conant Worcester, D.Sc., F.R.G.S. was an American zoologist, public official, and authority on the Philippines, born at Thetford, Vermont, and educated at the University of Michigan (A.B., 1889).  From 1899 to 1901 he was a member of the  United States Philippine Commission; thenceforth until 1913 he served as secretary of the interior for the Philippine Insular Government. In 1910, he founded the Philippine General Hospital, which has become the hospital for the poor and the sick.In October, 2004, at the request of Mr Moises Butic, Lamut CENR Officer, Mr Jon Hornbuckle, of Grove Road, Sheffield, has conducted a short investigation into bird-trapping in Ifugao, Mountain Province, Banaue Mount Polis, Sagada and Dalton Pass, in Nueva Vizcaya."Prices ranged from 100 pesos for a Fruit-Dove to 300 pesos for a Metallic Pigeon. Other species that are caught from time to time include Flame-breasted Fruit-Dove and Luzon Bleeding-heart; on one occasion, around 50 of the latter were trapped! All other trapped birds are eaten," said Hornbuckle. "The main trapping season is November to February. Birds are caught at the lights using butterfly-catching type nets. Quails and Buttonquails were more often shot in the fields at this time, rather than caught, and occasionally included the rare Luzon (Worcester’s) Buttonquail, which is only known from dead specimens, and is a threatened bird species reported from Dalton Pass," he added.In August, 1929, Richard C. McGregor and Leon L. Gardner of the Cooper Ornithological Society compiled a book entitled Philippine Bird Traps. The authors described the Luzon Buttonquail as "very rare," having only encountered it twice, once in August and once in September. "They are caught with a scoop net from the back of a carabao. Filipino hunters snared them, baiting with branches of artificial red peppers made of sealing wax," wrote McGregor and Leon L. Gardner. "The various ingenious and effectual devices used by Filipinos for bird-trapping include [the] 'Teepee Trap' which consists of a conical tepee, woven of split bamboo and rattan about 3 feet high and 3 feet across at the base, with a fairly narrow entrance. 'Spring Snares' were also used, where a slip noose fastened to a strongly bent bamboo or other elastic branch, which is released by a trigger, which is usually the perch of the trap," their book explained.A passage from the bird-trap book, which explains why Filipinos had eaten these endangered bird species, goes as follows:A global review of threatened species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) indicates drastic decline of animal and plant life. This includes a quarter of all mammals, one out of eight birds, one out of three amphibians and 70 percent of plants.The report, Red List of Threatened Species, is published by IUCN every year. Additionally, a global assessment of the health of the world's species is released once in four years. The data is compiled by 1,700 experts from 130 countries. The key findings of the report were announced at the World Conservation Congress held in Barcelona, Spain. The survey includes 44,838 species of wild fauna and flora, out of which 16,928 species are threatened with extinction. Among the threatened, 3,246 are tagged critically endangered, the highest category of threat. Another 4,770 species are endangered and 8,912 vulnerable to extinction. Environmental scientists say they have concrete evidence that the planet is undergoing the "largest mass extinction in 65 million years". Leading environmental scientist Professor Norman Myers says the Earth is experiencing its "Sixth Extinction."Scientists forecast that up to five million species will be lost this century. "We are well into the opening phase of a mass extinction of species. There are about 10 million species on earth. If we carry on as we are, we could lose half of all those 10 million species," Myers said.Scientists are warning that by the end of this century, the planet could lose up to half its species, and that these extinctions will alter not only biological diversity but also the evolutionary processes itself. They state that human activities have brought our planet to the point of biotic crisis.In 1993, Harvard biologist E.O. Wilson estimated that the planet is losing 30,000 species per year - around three species per hour. Some biologists have begun to feel that the biodiversity crisis dubbed the "Sixth Extinction" is even more severe, and more imminent, than Wilson had expected.The Luzon Buttonquail (Turnix worcesteri) is a species of bird in the Turnicidae family. It is endemic to the island of Luzon in the Philippines, where it is known from just six localities thereof. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical high-altitude grassland, in the highlands of the Cordillera Central, although records are from 150-1,250 m, and the possibility that it frequents forested (non-grassland) habitats cannot be discounted.The buttonquails or hemipodes are a small family of  birds which resemble, but are unrelated to, the true quails. They inhabit warm grasslands in Asia, Africa, and Australia. They are assumed to be intra-island migrants, and  breed somewhere in northern Luzon in April-June and that at least some birds disperse southwards in the period July-March. These Turnicidae are small, drab, running birds, which avoid flying. The female is the more brightly coloured of the sexes, and initiates courtship. Unusually, the buttonquails are polyandrous, with the females circulating among several males and expelling rival females from her territory. Both sexes cooperate in building a nest in the earth, but only the male incubates the eggs and tends the young.Called "Pugo" (quail) by natives, these birds inhabit rice paddies and scrub lands near farm areas because of the abundance of seeds and insects that they feed on regularly. These birds are characterized by their black heads with white spots, a brown or fawn colored body and yellow legs on males and the females are brown with white and black spots. These birds are very secretive, choosing to make small path ways through the rice fields, which unfortunately leads to their deaths as well, they are hunted by children and young men by means of setting spring traps along their usual path ways.Buttonquails are a notoriously cryptic and unobtrusive family of birds, and the species could conceivably occur in reasonable numbers somewhere. They are included in the 2008 IUCN Red List Category (as evaluated by BirdLife International IUCN Red List of Threatened Species). They are also considered as Vulnerable species by IUCN and BirdLife International, since these species is judged to have a ten percent chance of going extinct in the next one hundred years.London — A few hundred England fans weren't watching the 2006 FIFA World Cup match against Sweden last night in a pub or at home, but instead had ventured out to their local cinema to see the game on the big screen. A number of Odeon cinemas nationwide have been using digital projection technology to screen the matches live with a high definition (HD) picture. HD broadcasts contain a greater level of detail than traditional TV broadcasts, meaning a sharper picture and better sound quality. In the darkened auditorium of the cinema in Covent Garden, the audience (or should that be crowd?) were behaving almost as if they were at the stadium, singing along to the national anthem, cheering at the England goals and groaning at the Sweden chances. At times, chants being sung by the England crowd at the match were even picked up and sung along to by those watching the cinema screen like some kind of football karaoke contest.Trailers before the match were replaced by a soundtrack of England anthems, both the successful and not-so-successful ones, and the traditional movie treat of popcorn was replaced by trays of beer (in plastic cups) being brought in by the punters. The cinema had cheekily listed the screening as being 'directed by Sven-Göran Eriksson' and as 'starring Wayne Rooney (hopefully)'.Despite a disappointing 2-2 draw, the audience seemed impressed with the experience. "I'm a bit short and so wanted to make sure I had good view without having to jostle around for position," Amanda, from London, explained to me. "I also liked that it was non-smoking, and there was a fabulous atmosphere".  Sian, Caio and Laura, who lived locally, said they wanted to see the match on the big screen and commented on the excellent picture quality. Other events that have been broadcast by the cinema chain include concerts by Robbie Williams and Elton John. Odeon Marketing Director Luke Vetere said "offering films is just one part of the cinema experience - our ambition is to offer guests the chance to watch other events they feel passionate about". Watching football in the cinema is not a brand new event though, during previous World Cups such as in 1966, film footage from the matches was broadcast in cinemas after the event, providing a way for people to see the games in colour when TV broadcasts were in black and white.Cinema screenings aren't the only way that fans can watch the World Cup games in high-definition this year though, as both Sky TV and Telewest have been broadcasting the games in HD to viewers with a special set-top box. There have been trials with HD on the growing Freeview platform too, with a pilot group of a few hundred viewers in London. However, as any move to roll out HD on Freeview would use up extra space on the broadcast spectrum and would require viewers to buy a new set-top box, it seems unlikely that this will happen any time soon.The English Football Association (FA) has complained after broadcaster ITV cut away to an advertisement just before a winning goal in a match.The match, an FA Cup Merseyside derby between Everton F.C. and Liverpool F.C., was in extra time after 118 minutes without a goal when ITV's automated advertisement server, designed for use only during ordinary programming, began playing out commercials. During this time, Everton's Dan Gosling scored the winning goal. In some regions the system returned to the match just before the goal, but viewers in the south of England saw only the celebrations after the goal.Michael Grade, executive chairman of ITV, admitted to ITN that the broadcast had been a shambles and said that "yellow or red cards" would go to those responsible once it was established how it happened. ITV has received over 1,000 complaints. ITV has previously had issues with FA Cup coverage. The Histon F.C.—Leeds United A.F.C. game managed to include swearing from Leeds fans and scenes of a naked player, whilst heavy rain marred picture quality.The FA's statement on this issue said "It is obviously very disappointing that viewers and fans did not see the only goal of last night’s FA Cup replay between Everton and Liverpool. Clearly we are seeking a full explanation from ITV as to why this happened. It is important that lessons are learned and that this does not happen again".Famed English actor, singer and author Sir Christopher Lee died last Sunday morning in London aged 93, after being admitted to Chelsea and Westminster Hospital for heart failure and respiratory problems. News of his death only became public on Thursday, as his wife of 54 years, Birgit Krøncke Lee, wished first to inform friends and family.A spokesman for the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea confirmed the issuing of his death certificate.Lee first rose to prominence in the 1950s starring in Hammer Horror films as the classic movie monsters Dracula and Frankenstein and was more recently seen as Saruman the White in the Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit films as well as portraying the villainous Count Dooku in the Star Wars films Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith. In 2010 Lee released a heavy metal album titled Charlemagne: By the Sword and the Cross followed by another metal album in 2013, Charlemagne: The Omens of Death and several collections of Heavy Metal cover songs including A Heavy Metal Christmas, A Heavy Metal Christmas Too and Metal Knight.In 2008 Lee was knighted for services to drama and charity, and in 2001 received a Bafta Fellowship.Lee is survived by his wife Birgit and daughter Christina.English actor and scriptwriter Norman Painting has died at the age of 85 in Warmington in the county of Warwickshire in England. He had been fighting a battle with bladder cancer since 2000.Painting was most famous for playing the voice of the character Phil Archer in BBC Radio 4 drama "The Archers" since the programme piloted on 29 May 1950, making him involved in the series for 59 years. According to the Guinness Book of Records, Norman is recognised as the "longest-serving character in a single soap-opera". He has also written over 1000 scripts for the programme between 1966 and 1982. Despite the long period of time on the show, he was having a reduced number of appearances in later years due to his declining health. In 2000, he made the announcement that he was suffering from bladder cancer, but said at the time: "I see no reason why this illness should prevent me from continuing doing what I love."His last day in the recording studio was on October 20, which was a Tuesday. Mark Thompson, who is the BBC general director, spoke of how he was "deeply saddened" by this happening: "He rightly became renowned for his portrayal of Phil Archer, a role he created in the pilot episode in 1950, but he was also a gifted writer and talented, versatile broadcaster. He was a pillar of The Archers family, but to millions of listeners he became a friend and latterly a wonderful father figure. His death leaves us with a great sense of loss but an even deeper feeling of gratitude for such a huge contribution to the BBC and its audiences over six decades," said Thompson. Painting was appointed OBE in 1976 and also has a star on the Birmingham Walk of Stars. Mark Damazer, who is the current BBC Radio 4 controller, also expressed his gratitude to the actor. "Norman Painting was for almost 60 years a central figure in one of Radio 4's hallmark programmes," he said. "As Phil Archer, he became a wonderful patriarch yet he had started decades earlier as a young romantic hero. He will be deeply missed by the rest of The Archers team and his millions of fans."The last episode in which he is featured will be broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on November 22, 2009. An extract of the episode can be found on the BBC News website.Elizabeth "Liz" Taylor, an English born U.S. actress, died on Wednesday at the age of 79, in the Cedars-Senai Medical Center, in Los Angeles, California, where she was admitted six weeks ago. The cause of death was announced as a heart ailment that she had suffered for years.Taylor made her film debut in 1941 at Universal Pictures, and won two Academy Awards, for "Butterfield 8" (1960), and "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf" (1966). Widely known for her personality, described as "sexy, glamorous, untimely, and fragile," the actress was always surrounded by her fans and the media. As a child actress, she was known for having two sets of eyelashes because of a genetic mutation, distinguishing her face from other actresses.Recently, Taylor had been using an account on Twitter to keep herself in touch with her fans and friends. "I like the connection with fans and people who have been supportive of me, [...] [a]nd I love the idea of real feedback and a two-way street, which is very, very modern. But sometimes I think we know too much about our idols and that spoils the dream," Taylor said in a 2011 interview for Harper's Bazaar.Taylor had to overcome an addiction to alcohol and drugs in the 80s through admissions to the Betty Ford Clinic in California, and had been for a number of days admitted to a Los Angeles hospital for heart failure.Taylor is survived by four children, who reported that Taylor's last wish for her fans was that "they shouldn't be sending flowers for her, that money should be sent to charitable works, or otherwise to her 'Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation,'" in order to continue with her struggle in favour of patients with the disease.Steve McClaren and his deputy Terry Venables have both been sacked by the English Football Association after a unanimous decision by board members during an emergency meeting held earlier today. The decision was announced by the FA chief executive Brian Barwick in a press conference held this morning after widespread speculation due to the poor performance of the English national team which last night failed to qualify for the UEFA Euro 2008 competition.  The cost of removing him from his post is thought to cost £2.6 million.According to a study by the Centre for Economic and Business Research, missing out on Euro 2008 could cost the British economy as much as £1 billion. The recruiting process has already started to find the next manager for the team, only 18 months after 46-year-old McClaren was given the role.  During the press conference the FA admitted that not qualifying for the competition was "embarrassing".The Darkness, a musical group of the hard rock genre based in England, has made the decision to reunite. They have been separated since 2006. The group are reportedly to perform at the upcoming Download Festival, which is due to occur in June of this year. The four members are anticipated to proceed recording a new album during the months of April and May 2011.Speaking on Twitter, Justin Hawkins, a singer in the group, expressed his "[t]hanks for all the lovely messages of support" from supporters. "I'm gobsmacked and overwhelmed by all the positivity in and around The Darkness," he said.Approximately four years ago, Justin Hawkins departed from The Darkness. In a statement, the reaction of the remainder of the group was one of "total shock". They subsequently separated until this reforming occurred. Speaking to Newsbeat about the music group, Hawkins explained that "[t]he main thing for us is to make sure that musically we turn the experience into something positive again.""We've been remembering why it was so much fun in the first place, just four men making loud music in a room," Hawkins commented. Speaking about the bodysuits he was known for wearing, Hawkins also said that "I think it should be a new phase and that should be extended to the clothing. Not a lesser phase, if anything a cranked up version. They'll be more good."Today, at 23:09 UTC,  the internet encyclopedia Wikipedia reached the point of having over one million articles written in English. In comparison, the largest  traditional English-language encyclopedia, Encyclopædia Britannica, has 120,000 articles. This milestone marks an important point in Wikipedia's short history.There was minor confusion over the millionth article; it was first held to be Jordanhill Railway Station, then a brief biography of baseball player Aaron Ledesma.  The millionth article was later confirmed to be the former, started by Wikipedia contributor Nach0king (Ewan Macdonald).  "While I am, of course, delighted at being the one to hit this milestone, I must confess, along with many others I timed my contributions tonight to give me a chance at being the lucky one," he wrote on his Wikipedia user page.Jimmy Wales commented that "We are thrilled that our millionth article in English is about the Jordanhill railway station.  This is not something which would appear in a traditional encyclopedia, and it shows how Wikipedia reflects the needs and interests of people everywhere, and not just the dictates of what academics and cultural mavens claim is worthy of an encyclopedia."Recently on two weekends of 2007 Taipei IT Month, some entertainers from Hong Kong and Taiwan and basketball players from Super Basketball League chose their promotional stage at 2007 Taipei IT Month to promote their and exhibitors' notabilities. Apparently, it caused their fans and crowded public visiting IT Month on two weekends.Last week from December 1 & 2, members from MACHI brothers Stanley Huang and Jeff Huang, and a singer from Hong Kong Karen Mok visited this show to help exhibitors promote their new products and activities. On the other hand, a Taiwanese band "DA Mouth" and a famous Taiwanese singer Waa Wei successively held small concerts in the showground, this is differ than before because lots of medium-small concerts often held in the PAMC K-Mall or Ximending.At recent 2 days (December 8 & 9), 5 players from Taiwan Beer Basketball Team like Chih-chieh Lin, Xing-liang Lou, Xiao-yuan Ha, Shih-nien Chen, and Shou-cheng He helped Asia Pacific Telecom Inc. for the cellular phone charity bidding. Not only this, entertainers like Rainie Yang, Sonia Sui, and a Taiwanese women musical group Hei Se Hui Mei Mei all successively visited booths of Ergotech Corp., Mio Technology, and Chinese Gamer International Corp. in this show.In fact, this phenomenon, a company invited notable people to visit a show, often appeared at some consuming shows in the Taipei World Trade Center especially on gaming or IT shows. It often brought profits for entertainers, sportspeople, media, consumer, and companies as they separately gained what they need each other.In an odd move, ESPN's parent company, The Walt Disney Company, traded the contract of NFL play-by-play analyst Al Michaels to NBC Universal in exchange for various sports considerations and Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, a cartoon character Walt Disney created 79 years ago but lost to Charles B. Mintz when he created his own studio.  Oswald is generally understood to be the precursor to Mickey Mouse.Oswald the Lucky Rabbit was created in 1927 by Walt Disney for Charles B. Mintz, and distributed by Universal Studios.  Disney directed 26 Oswald cartoons before a budget dispute with Mintz forced Disney to leave and create his own studio.  Mintz, however, owned the rights to Oswald, and kept the character.  Oswald soon was bought by Universal, who would continue to create Oswald cartoons on a regular basis until 1938.  Most of the succeeding Oswald cartoons were directed by Walter Lantz, who would later become famous for Universal's most well-known cartoon character, Woody Woodpecker.Michaels, 61, will again join John Madden in the analyst booth for NBC's Sunday Night Football coverage beginning in the 2006 season.  This follows the announcement the previous day that Joe Theismann, Mike Tirico and Tony Kornheiser would be in the broadcast booth for ESPN Monday Night Football.  It was previously believed that Theismann and Michaels would announce Monday Night Football for ESPN.In consideration for releasing Micheals from his ABC contract, Disney received the rights to the early Disney-directed Oswalds, while ESPN received the following rights from NBC Sports:Friday coverage for the Ryder Cup golf tournaments in 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2014, and the right to re-air Saturday and Sunday coverage from NBC.Expanded coverage of the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes from 2006 through 2011.Expanded access to clips of Olympics coverage, beginning with the 2006 Winter Olympics in Torino and ending with the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.Expanded access to clips of Notre Dame college football games from 2006 through 2011.Promotion of ESPN Monday Night Football during NBC Sunday Night Football through 2011.This weekend the European Commission launched its own channel on YouTube, a highly popular website for distributing videos made by its users. Margot Wallström, the Commission Vice-president responsible for the communication strategy of the EU, explained that the channel on YouTube will be used to distribute informational and promotional videos about the EU. YouTube allows users to create a "channel" in which to upload a series of videos in a dedicated, user-specific directory. The EU had used online videos before, but they did not catch on with a larger audience.At the time of writing (July 4, 2007 at 21:25 UTC), the channel contained 47 videos, which were watched approximately 2.5 million times in total. A controversial video entitled "Film lovers will love this!" garnered over 1.8 million views alone. The video contains short segments of several successful movies whose production was funded by European Commission, the segments show couples undressing, kissing and reaching orgasm. It is intended to promote knowledge about the Media Program of the European Commission and its results.Despite lots of publicity and media attention causing a last minute rush to buy tickets, there was no winner of the £85m jackpot in this week's 'Euromillions' lottery. This is the tenth week that no-one has won the top prize, which has 'rolled-over' to create bigger and bigger jackpots each week. Next week's jackpot now looks set to be worth around £100m, the biggest in European lottery history.To win the jackpot, Players must match five main numbers from 1 to 50, plus two 'Lucky Star' numbers from one to nine. This week's winning numbers were 12, 15, 33, 44 and 50, with the Lucky Stars being 2 and 6.The pan-Europe lotter is open to players in Austria, Belgium, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.The odds of winning the jackpot are 1 in 76,275,360. If the estimated £100 million jackpot were to be shared equally amongst the populations of the countries participating, each person would receive 50p.Tottenham Hotspur defeated Scottish team Celtic Football Club 2 – 0 with goals coming from Darren Bent and new signing David Bentley. The game was a pretournament friendly exhibition game between the English and Scottish sides at the Feyenoord Jubilee Tournament in {{w|Rotterdam]], Netherlands. Celtic were last season's Scottish Premier League champions. Tottenham Hotspur finished 11th in the English Premier League last season.Bentley, the £15 million new signing and English international scored in the eightieth minute with veteran Bent first opening up the scoreboard after a mistake in the 24th minute by Celtic defender Paul Hartley allowed Bent to pounce and score a goal past Celtic keeper Artur Boruc.As English-Irish actor Daniel Day-Lewis took home his second Oscar for his leading role as a mean early oil enterpreneur in the motion picture There Will Be Blood, the top four honors for acting were swept away by European actors.  Earlier in the evening, Best Supporting Actress went to British actress Tilda Swinton, won for her portrayal of Karen Crowder in Michael Clayton.  Spaniard Javier Bardem took Best Supporting Actor for his role of psychotic killer Anton Chigurh in No Country for Old Men.  French actress Marion Cotillard took the Best Actress award for her commanding performance of French chanteuse Edith Piaf in the French film, La Vie En Rose, the first time for an actress in a French language film.First becoming famous in her native Ukraine in the 1990s, long-haired self-described "Amazon" Ruslana gained international recognition for winning the 2004 Eurovision Song Contest with her song "Wild Dances," inspired by the musical traditions of the Hutsul people of the Ukrainian Carpathian Mountains.In the five years since, Ruslana has decided to use her name and public status to represent a number of worthy causes, including human trafficking, renewable energy, and even the basic concept of democratic process, becoming a public face of Ukraine's Orange Revolution and later serving in Parliament.Currently, she is on an international publicity tour to promote her album Wild Energy, a project borne out of a science fiction novel that has come to symbolize her hopes for a newer, better, freer way of life for everyone in the world. She took time to respond to questions Wikinews's Mike Halterman posed to her about her career in music and her other endeavors.This is the fifth in a series of interviews with past Eurovision contestants, which will be published sporadically in the lead-up to mid-May's next contest in Moscow.The small archipelago of Malta in the Mediterranean Sea takes the Eurovision Song Contest very seriously. Leading a fight to remove a cap on the number of competing countries brought them back to the Contest in 1991 after a 16-year absence, and ever since the nation has had perfect attendance. Since then, Malta's dependable "shining star" has been Chiara Siracusa, who goes by her first name in her music career. First competing in 1998 at the age of 21, she was pushed to the brink of victory until the votes from the final country that evening leveled her placement to third. Her rendition of the song "The One That I Love," and the recognition she received not only for herself, but for her country, made her a star in Malta overnight, and helped her launch a singing career in Europe.She would later return to the Contest in 2005 with "Angel," an anthem she penned herself, and achieved second place. Now, in 2009, she will be going back to Eurovision for a third try, hoping for the "3-2-1" charm and a victory — something that has eluded her thus far. Her entry, the ballad "What If We," has special memories for Chiara; it is dedicated to her father, who is recently deceased. What if Chiara could take home the gold in Moscow; for Malta, for her father, and for herself? Only time will tell. Chiara took time out of her Eurovision promotional schedule to answer some questions from Wikinews' Mike Halterman about her past performances, and most importantly, her upcoming one.This is the fourth in a series of interviews with past Eurovision contestants, which will be published sporadically in the lead-up to mid-May's next contest in Moscow.((Mike Halterman))  You'll be going to Moscow for a third try at possibly winning Eurovision. Why did you decide to compete this year? How did your partnership with Marc Paelinck and Gregory Bilsen come about?Chiara: Well, I met Marc Paelinck long time ago through a friend in Belgium. We started working together and it brought us to this collaboration today. I was thinking of going back to the festival [for a long time] and this year felt like the right year to do so.((Mike Halterman))  Eurovision fans from across Europe picked you as the wide favorite to win Malta's preselection this year. Were you as confident? Were you nervous about competing in the semi-final rounds this time around, or did you think this was something you could handle?Chiara: When I go into a competition, I always go to win, but I was nervous like everyone else...I think [when] you win a festival, [you win] for what you present, not for what your history is.((Mike Halterman))  Growing up, did you always want to become a singer? Who were your musical influences, and what genres do you think are your favorite? Do you think these preferences have molded you into the singer you are today?Chiara: Definitely. My mum always says I used to sing and dance for them all the time since I was a baby, and I've always loved ballads. In fact, my favourite singer has always been Whitney Houston.((Mike Halterman))  How did you come to the decision to enter the Eurovision pre-selection for Malta back in 1998? What kinds of feelings did you experience during the path you took to eventual victory in the national final?Chiara: 1998 was my first time in the festival. I was very young and I felt I could never win it. I wanted just to try and be there with the big names of those times. It was very scary and overwhelming, [and] then I won.((Mike Halterman))  Did you feel overwhelmed performing in front of an international audience in Birmingham? What kind of personal feelings and emotions made you relate to the song you sang, "The One That I Love"? There were remarks afterwards that your performance was great, but your dress had similarities to Barbara Dex's from five years before (and she has become well-known for her "fashion don't"). Looking back on it, what did you think of that dress?Chiara: Well...looking back I remember that I was completely overwhelmed [singing] in front of so many people. I was very scared but managed to do well. As for the dress, they were different times [back then] and it was beyond my control.((Mike Halterman))  You came very close to winning the Contest for Malta back in 1998. When you didn't, how did it make you feel? Did you feel "robbed"? As an addenda, some Wikipedians I've talked to have hypothesized that tabloid hype before the event helped Dana International win; in other words, she would not have won had she not been a transsexual. Do you feel that's true, and did you like her song?Chiara: I know a lot of Maltese who voted for Dana because they liked the song and for no other reason. The song was good and we still hear it today. Obviously when you are so close to winning something and you don't, yes, you feel a bit robbed, but [then there's] the moment [when] you realise you did well and you are happy.((Mike Halterman))  After Eurovision, you made a transformation from an unknown singing hopeful to a true recording artist. Tell us a bit about your transformation, and how you felt during this time. Also, around this time you started to perform in concerts and festivals abroad. What was your best memory from this time, when you were performing abroad and people from outside Malta not only knew who you were, but were interested in your life and music.Chiara: Everything came like rain in my life, from one thing to the other, and before I knew it I became "Chiara of Malta." I loved it, but I didn't have much time to think about it. It came quickly; I went to a lot of places and sang with many people but I think what I will always remember is the concert I did with my band, where Seal was as well in the same event, in Frankfurt. It was incredible.((Mike Halterman))  In 2005, you entered the Contest again, this time with a song you wrote yourself. What is the meaning behind "Angel," and what kind of story do the lyrics tell about your own life and experiences?Chiara: "Angel" is a love song and it will always have a special place in my heart. It's about the love you give someone without wanting anything back, and the unlimited support too.((Mike Halterman))  You achieved the best placing for Malta in Eurovision history with your performance in 2005. What did you learn from your experiences in 1998 and, in your mind, how did you improve to become more successful in 2005?Chiara: I think it's the maturity and the experience. [Through] the years, without knowing, you [gather] so many lessons and behave better and take things a bit more serious and so on.((Mike Halterman))  Surely you've read not only supportive comments, but negative ones as well, particularly concerning your weight. At the same time, however, you have become a role model of sorts for fuller-figured women across Europe, who aren't accustomed to seeing "people like them" at Eurovision. How did you deal with the negativity, both in the context of the Contest and in your personal life, and what message do you hope to give to full-figured women who look to you for inspiration?Chiara: Well, I have always been "full figured," as you put it. I have spent time in my life trying to become as thin as I could, but I could never make it. Through the years I have learnt to accept myself and love me for what I am and how I look. I feel I have nothing less than others and my advice is to be happy with yourself, and love yourself, because you can never get someone to love you if you yourself don't.((Mike Halterman))  Tell us about the emotions you convey in the song "What If We." Every song has a story, so what is the story played out in this song?Chiara: The story for me with this song is completely about my father. He was the one to contact Marc [Paelinck] and he was the machine behind Eurovision for me, so he's entirely what this song is about for me and being that he passed away three months ago, well, it makes the song very special when I sing it.((Mike Halterman))  If you had to absolutely pick one song, which of the three songs you've submitted is your favorite, and why?Chiara: The three songs [each] have a story of [their own]. "The One That I Love" gave me my whole career, my fame and everything I am today so i can never forget it; "Angel" is too special because it's like my baby, I wrote it myself; and "What If We" is very deep in my heart because of my dad, so I can never choose between them. Sorry!((Mike Halterman))  What are your plans for after the Contest? What kinds of projects would you like to pursue? Have you considered launching a singing career in the United States?Chiara: My immediate project after the festival is an album which I have already started working on, in my style [which] is completely ballads, then wherever that takes me I'll go, [whether it be] the U.S. or elsewhere.((Mike Halterman))  Finally, what would you like to tell all of your fans, awaiting your performance this May in Moscow?Chiara: I would like to thank them for the ongoing support they have always showed me, and promise them I will give them my all on the performance night in Moscow.In the 1970s, she was one of the most popular female vocalists in France, and became well-known internationally. Anne Marie David, from Arles in the south of France, parlayed her initial success from playing Mary Magdalene in the French production of Jesus Christ Superstar into taking home the "grand prix" at the Eurovision Song Contest in 1973. Her winning song, "Tu te reconnaîtras" (You will recognize yourself), became a Europe-wide hit that spring.At the height of her popularity, David perfomed world tours, and even lived abroad in Turkey for a time. In 1979, she tried once again to win the Eurovision, and placed a respectable third. Her song "Je suis l'enfant soleil" (I'm a child of the sun) became similarly popular across France and in the Francophone nations.As time went on, however, her place in the French music scene became less certain. Touring the world had taken a personal toll, and David decided to retire from music completely in 1987. However, with the help of her fan base, she was coaxed out of retirement in 2003 and is returning to a part of her life that she tried to leave, but never left her. Celebrating four decades in the music scene, David is looking forward to adventurous new projects and a newfound zest for life.Anne Marie David corresponded with Wikinews' Mike Halterman about her eventful career, her personal anecdotes regarding living abroad, her successes in past Eurovision contests and her grievances with the way the show is produced today. This is the second in a series of interviews with past Eurovision contestants, which will be published sporadically in the lead-up to mid-May's next contest in Moscow.It has been nearly 27 years since Nicole, then a high school student from the Saarland in extreme western Germany, sang a heartfelt plea for world peace on the stage at the Eurovision Song Contest held in Harrogate, North Yorkshire in the United Kingdom. That simple message was wrapped with success; she became the first German in Contest history to take home the grand prize. The song was a brainchild of her former record producer, Ralph Siegel, and would be their greatest achievement in their nearly three-decade partnership.Afterward, she was propelled to stardom across Europe by recording versions of her winning song, "Ein bißchen Frieden" (A little peace), in many European languages. To this day, it was the last winning Eurovision song to top the charts in the United Kingdom; it also has the distinction of being the 500th #1 single on the British charts.This newfound fame brought her music to audiences across Europe, and in time, into Asia as well. By the end of the 1980s, however, her fame subsided somewhat and she refocused her career domestically. Since 1980, she has released over 30 albums in Germany; her most recent offering, Mitten ins Herz (Right into your heart), was accompanied by a three-month "unplugged" tour that ended in the third week of January.Now off the road, Nicole spoke with Wikinews' Mike Halterman about her past success, her life and career today, and her overall impressions of the Eurovision Song Contest, both past and present. This is the first in a series of interviews with past Eurovision contestants, which will be published sporadically in the lead-up to mid-May's next contest in Moscow.Last night saw the first semi final of this year's Eurovision Song Contest in Belgrade, Serbia. The entries from Israel, Azerbaijan, Norway, Poland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Armenia, Finland, Romania, Russia and Greece are through to the final, leaving the representatives from Montenegro, Estonia, Moldova, San Marino, Belgium, Slovenia, Ireland, Andorra and the Netherlands failing to qualify for this weekend's final.The aforementioned countries join host nation Serbia, automatically through as is last year's winner, and the 'big four' - the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Spain. The other entries will compete in the second semi final tomorrow. Below is a summary of each entry in running order:Eva Avila, 19, of Gatineau, Quebec was crowned this years winner of Canadian Idol. Craig Sharpe, 16, of Upper Island Cove, Newfoundland and Labrador was the runner up.The show was aired in the Air Canada Centre in Toronto and lasted two hours.Former Canadian Idol winner Melissa O'Neil sang her new hit single Speechless. O'Neil was presented with a multi-platinum record for her single Alive by Craig Sharpe earlier in the show. Eva Avila also gave her a muti-platinum record for her self-titled album Melissa O'Neil. Nelly Furtado sang her new hit single Maneater from her new album Loose. The African Children's Choir also sang on stage with this years Top 10.Newfoundland and Labrador Premier Danny Williams and St. John's MP Loyola Hearn were in the audience to lend their support for Craig.Avila won by approximately 131,000 votes, a margin of just over three per cent of the four million votes cast in the final."I'm just one tiny person on this planet but thanks to you guys, I'm feeling like I'm sitting on top of the world," Avila said Sunday.Avila sang what will be the first single of her upcoming album: Meant to Fly, co-written by Chantal Kreviazuk and her husband Raine Maida. Sony BMG Music Canada is the record label that will be releasing her single on September 26. Her new recording was on the radio airwaves at 12 am. today."The fact that all Canada is voting and the votes were so close ... I'm happy that she won," he said. "I mean, I'm sad that I lost, but we are different and she's just amazing," Craig Sharpe said.Canadian Idol host Ben Mulroney announced Sunday that Cyndi Lauper has agreed to produce one track for Avila's future album. Country singer Martina McBride has invited Avila to join her on her Canadian tour in summer 2007.Due to the province-wide college strike, events at Humber College in Etobicoke, Ontario, Canada have been cancelled or delayed.Latin Jazz Night, set to happen on Wednesday evening at 8:00 pm is cancelled, as is an Evening of Sketch Comedy, which was scheduled for Sunday, March 12 at 8:00 pm.The Evening of Sketch Comedy is organized by students of the Humber School of Comedy. Humber is the only institution to offer comedy courses at a post-secondary or post-graduate level. The Evening is a part of students' marks.Theatre Humber's production of The Rover has survived the axe. Set to play from Friday, March 31 – Saturday, April 8 at the Humber Theatre, it has been pre-emptively postponed.Faculty of 24 colleges across the province went on strike as of Monday night, after no deal was made in continued collective bargaining.The High Commission of Canada in South Africa is not granting ex-wife of Nelson Mandela, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a visa to enter Canada.Her daughter, Zindzi Mandela, and two security guards were granted a visa.There is no word as to why Canadian officials refused, but sources speculate that her conviction for being involved in the death of a 14-year-old activist, and other incidents, could be factors.Madikizela-Mandela is a figure of debate because her supporters in the struggle against apartheid were violent. In 1991, she was convicted for kidnapping. In 2003, she was convicted of fraud.Immigration lawyer, Guidy Mamann, told CBC Radio: "Generally, if you have a criminal record, you're not wanted in this country, either for permanent residence or to visit as a tourist."Madikizela-Mandela, 73, was scheduled to speak at a fundraising gala and dinner in Toronto, on Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. ET. It was named "A Night in Soweto", and was presented by arts organization MusicaNoir. According to CanadaNewsWire, African-American actor LeVar Burton flew from Los Angeles, California to Toronto to fill in for Madikizela-Mandela.An opera named "The Passion of Winnie", about the life of Madikizela-Mandela, is to be presented at Toronto's Luminato Festival at 8:00 p.m ET on Friday. It is not known if Madikizela-Mandela will be granted a visa to attend the event.Luminato's official website stated that it is "an event not to be missed", Madikizela-Mandela is a "fascinating and strong personality", and she demonstrates "rarely displayed true and charismatic leadership". Tickets for the event are CAN$200.To promote the craft design of indigenous peoples in Taiwan, the Council of Indigenous Peoples of Executive Yuan, the show organizer, made an inception on crafts of indigenous peoples with the "2008 Taiwan Indigenous Peoples Craft Exhibition" in the Ketagalan Culture Center in Taipei, Taiwan.As of the organizer, this exhibition was set to discover more excellent artisans from indigenous peoples and promote the excellent crafts of indigenous peoples in Taiwan to bring on the sustainability of the traditional indigenous tribes.Not only this show until June 29, but the 2008 Taiwan Designers' Week from tomorrow (June 28), in addition to 2008 Taipei In Style from July 10, will bring on the other opportunities for cultural, creative, and the fashion-related industries.Wikinews has compiled the views from various politicians on New Zealand's latest digital television service, Freeview. Those interviewed were Sue Kedgley, Jonathan Coleman, and Steve Maharey, the broadcasting spokespeople for their respective parties; the Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand, the New Zealand National Party, and the New Zealand Labour Party.Freeview, modelled after the United Kingdom's Freeview, is competing directly with New Zealand's only other digital pay TV provider, Sky Network Television. Sky reaches around 44.5% of New Zealand households. However, unlike Sky, Freeview has no on-going subscription fees, and only has a one-off fee for a set-top box and, if needed, a satellite dish.The Labour-led Government has provided Freeview with around NZ$25 million over a five-year period to help New Zealand change from the old analogue technology and align itself "as the rest of the world moves to digital television broadcasting," Mr Maharey said. The funding use is monitored by the Ministry for Culture and Heritage. Dr Coleman also described the same reasons why Freeview was necessary for New Zealand and is supported by the National Party.However, Ms Kedgley takes a different approach and describes the Freeview service as "a belated and inadequate response to the digital challenge", but does state that digital TV is the "growth area." She also said that the Government is now trying to catch up after they scrapped TVNZ's (Television New Zealand) digital plan, which she describes as far more ambitious.National, despite being supportive of Freeview, think that the Government has not done a good job with Freeview, describing it as a "white elephant". Firstly because Dr Coleman says there isn't enough good programming currently available to get people interested in switching, and, secondly, there hasn't been a definite date when analogue transmission will be cut off.Mr Maharey said that the Government is engaging various broadcasters and interested parties to get a definite analogue switch off date, and talk about other various regulatory factors. He expects the date to be within the next six to ten years.While the Greens do welcome the new government-funded TVNZ channels, a news and current affairs channel and a family-related channel (TVNZ 7 and TVNZ 6 respectively), "The whole exercise however, smacks of too little, too late." They also say that the amount of funding allocated to new programming cannot pose a threat to Sky. But do support "packaging and marketing [...] existing TVNZ content on the emerging digital platforms." MediaWorks, which runs TV3 and C4, will announce their two new channels in around 18-months. And Triangle TV will add their own channel, Stratos TV, in October, 2007.National are questioning Mr Maharey why he hadn't released the viewer number figures. Dr Coleman said that Mr Maharey was trying to distance himself away from the "reality" of what was going on. So Wikinews requested, under the Official Information Act, the amount of set-top boxes sold. The request was denied as Freeview was to release the information themselves in a months time. On August 13 the figures were released, with a total over 21,000. General Manager Steve Browning said that “we're tracking well ahead of forecast”. Mr Maharey concurred with what Mr Browning said, saying it exceeds their first year expectations.Ms Kedgley, Dr Coleman, and Mr Maharey all say that they don't have Freeview, nor know anyone who has the service. Though, Mr Maharey will consider getting it when more channels and the 2008 terrestrial service is launched in eight major New Zealand cities.Wikinews held an exclusive interview with former high-ranking Scientology executive Mark Rathbun on his new book The Scientology Reformation: What Every Scientologist Should Know. Rathbun examined the close association between actor Tom Cruise and Scientology leader David Miscavige. Before leaving the organization led by Miscavige, Rathbun served as Inspector General of the Religious Technology Center within Scientology. He currently practices the teachings of Scientology and its founder L. Ron Hubbard independently of the organization managed by David Miscavige.The biggest music festival in South Eastern Europe, Exit Festival, will start tomorrow. The festival is organized on Petrovaradin fortress in Novi Sad, Serbia and Montenegro, and will last from July 7 to July 10. This will be the fifth annual Exit festival.The festival includes 21 stages, featuring a diverse range of music, from classical to techno. The program is scheduled to last from 6 pm to 8 am every night, with both domestic and foreign musicians.It is expected that tens of thousands of people, mostly from ex Yugoslavian republics, will attend. This year's performers include Apocalyptica, Fatboy Slim, White Stripes, Underworld, Garbage, Slayer, Laibach, Ian Brown, Carl Cox, Freq Nasty, Marky & Patife, Sasha, Felix da Housecat, Dave Clarke, Napalm Death, Sandy Rivera, Darren Emerson, Mutiny, Danny Howells, Christian Varela, Michel De Hey, Valentino Kanzyani, 2 Many DJs, Marko Nastic, etc.A new intelligent design creationist movie, Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed, starring Ben Stein, is scheduled to debut April 18, but several different sources have accused the film's producer of copyright violations. Though the movie has been criticized by Dr. Richard Dawkins, Dr. PZ Myers, and Dr. Eugenie Scott, who said they were tricked into appearing in the film, as well as from movie critics and scientists, the legal issues might develop into trouble for the producers.On April 9, a cease-and-desist letter was sent to the producers of Expelled, alleging that the appearance in the film of an identical copy of XVIVO's video entitled The Inner Life of the Cell, which was created in partnership with Harvard University, infringed on XVIVO/Harvard's property. Shortly after, a letter was sent by David Bolinsky of XVIVO who wrote that Expelled's misuse of XVIVO/Harvard's work is harmful to their work.On April 16, the The Wall Street Journal reported that Expelled producers did not receive permission to use John Lennon's "Imagine" from Yoko Ono, who possesses the copyright on the music. At the same time, it was noted that the producer also did not receive permission from The Killers for their song "All these Things That I Have Done." In addition, Myers believes Expelled copied material without permission from WEHI-TV and Public Broadcasting Service's video The Central Dogma: Transcription of DNA to RNA.The topic of the film has also not been without controversy, as the scientific community does not believe intelligent design is valid science. Some scientists have panned the movie as "anti-science." Furthermore, the film received attention a month ago when Myers, who is interviewed and thanked in the film, was asked to leave a free screening of the movie by Mark Mathis, the movie's associate producer. However, Mathis did not notice Dawkins standing in line next to Myers who subsequently saw the film and wrote critically of it.Controversial and explicit Canadian workplace safety ads have been pulled from television, and paper ads from some bus shelters for the Christmas season. However, the ads will return to air in January."It's totally erroneous to suggest we're pulling anything," chairman of the Workplace Safety and Information Board of Ontario, Steve Mahoney said. "Our plan from Day 1 was to stop the ads around the middle of December when most of the advertising that's in the media is focused on Christmas and purchasing gifts. We just didn't want to be competing with all that stuff."In one of the TV ads a woman accidentally slips on grease on the floor and a large steaming pot falls onto her face, and she starts screaming to death. The ads end with the message "There really are no accidents".A paper ads shows a construction worker who is in a pool of blood with a forklift operation manual stuck in his chest. Another with a man who is slit by a "Danger" sign with his leg stuck in a machine. They show the messages: "Lack of training can kill" and the other "Ignoring safety procedures can kill"."The critics amount to about 25 per cent rating, and I'm delighted they're upset about the ads because I wouldn't want anyone to enjoy watching them."The videos have been viewed more than 70,000 times on the Board's website and are gaining large amounts of views on YouTube.The transit authorities of Hamilton and Mississauga will show modified advertisements. The transit authority of Guelph will show the ads in bus shelters, but the transit authority of Windsor will not because of the graphic nature."We're not against workplace safety, but this is too graphic," said Caroline Postma, chair of the Transit Windsor board.Mississauga city councillour Carolyn Parrish said: "My son-in-law was telling me that they shouldn't be on in prime time because when [my grandson] watches them he just about bursts into tear. Now he follows his mom around the kitchen to make sure she doesn't spill grease. And he's only four. There's too much of a chance that ... people are really badly affected by it, and can't really do anything about it anyway." She suggested the ads only be aired to workers with the jobs shown in the commercials.Mahoney changed the earlier promise to air the ads only after 8:00pm to after 9:00pm at last nights meeting with Mississauga city council.Mahoney said the commercials and paper ads are not "too graphic at all". And they are "absolutely appropriate and they're doing what they're intended to do, they're creating what I call a water cooler topic of conversation."Ninety-eight Canadian workers so far have been killed on the job this year.The 2005 World Exposition opened today in Aichi, Japan. The fair, which runs until 25 September 2005, is expected to draw over 15 million visitors from across the globe. 121 countries will take part in what is expected to be a 135 billion yen event. The first Expo - the Great Exhibition -  was held in 1851 in London. The event had always been held in either Europe or North America, until in 1970, it was held in Osaka, Japan.One of the major attractions at this year's Expo is the skull of an 18,000-year-old woolly mammoth.During a thunderstorm tonight, lightning set fire to a former home of F. Scott Fitzgerald in St. Paul, Minnesota.  Amidst reports about flash flood warnings and floating cars, KSTP TV said that lightning had set the steeple of the F. Scott Fitzgerald house on fire.  Fire fighters were working to extinguish the smoky fire, which seemed to be limited to the steeple.  Video images suggest the building is the 599 Summit Avenue residence where Fitzgerald wrote This Side of Paradise.The popular social networking site Facebook agreed to purchase the Instagram photo-sharing mobile app for US$1 billion in cash and stock Monday. The app, which can be used to apply faux-vintage filters to photographs, allows users to share photos with one another both directly and through posts to social networking sites.  Instagram was founded less than two years ago by two Stanford University graduates near San Francisco, California and the purchase is one of the largest acquisitions in Facebook history following after a failed takeover bid in early 2011 which had been declined by Instagram.Facebook, despite its prominence as the largest website for social networking in the world, has had difficulties expanding into the mobile market, particularly the realm of mobile advertising. As of yet, Facebook lacks an advertising platform for its apps and has yet to capitalize off the boom in mobile phone use that Instagram is intertwined with.  Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg noted the importance of the ability to post to multiple social media sites at once in a post. He wrote on his personal timeline, "We think the fact that Instagram is connected to other services beyond Facebook is an important part of the experience." He said Facebook "plan[s] on keeping features like the ability to post to other social networks, the ability to not share your Instagrams on Facebook if you want, and the ability to have followers and follow people separately from your friends on Facebook."Many other small services that Facebook has acquired, namely Gowalla, Hot Potato, and FriendFeed, were all shuttered shortly after acquisition. The co-founder of Instagram, Kevin Systrom, in a company blog post, has denied any claims that Instagram would share the fate of these past services. "It’s important to be clear that Instagram is not going away. We’ll be working with Facebook to evolve Instagram and build the network. We’ll continue to add new features to the product and find new ways to create a better mobile photos experience," he wrote.Many reasons have been put forth for the purchase, and Zuckerberg commented, "for years, we've focused on building the best experience for sharing photos with your friends and family. Now, we'll be able to work even more closely with the Instagram team to also offer the best experiences for sharing beautiful mobile photos with people based on your interests."Bangladesh temporarily blocked the social networking site Facebook on Saturday, after a man was arrested for uploading content onto it deemed offensive. Other users had reportedly posted other kinds of potentially offensive content, including anti-religious and pornographic materials.Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) arrested Mahbub Alam Rodin, aged 30, in charges of uploading cartoons of some political leaders on the website. Rodin's activity on Facebook was classified as "offensive", said Commander Mohammad Sohail, director of RAB's Legal and Media side, as reported by The Daily Star. RAB asked to block all seven accounts of Rodin in Facebook. Rodin used pseudonyms like "Brigadier Mahadi", "Sepahi Mahadi", "Imam Hossain", "Rodin Al", "Mohammad Al Mahadi" and "Junaida Khandaker Zihan", Sohail said. No official comment has been made, but Bangladesh's Telecommunication Regulatory Commission (BTRC) blocked it on the government's request. Private news agency bdnews24 reported that the measure was made on a request by the elite anti-crime Rapid Action Battalion. Users couldn't log onto the website since 6:30 pm local time. The website is to be unblocked on Monday.Mark Zuckerberg, the 28-year-old founder of the social networking website Facebook, has married his girlfriend, Priscilla Chan. On Saturday, Zuckerberg married the 27-year-old Chan in the garden of his residence in Palo Alto, located in the US state of California. A spokesperson for Facebook described Chan's wedding ring as a "very simple ruby," which Zuckerberg designed.The couple, who had been in a relationship for more than nine years, first met at Harvard University. Harvard is where Facebook was launched by Zuckerberg in 2004. Zuckerberg and Chan subsequently relocated to California, where Facebook is currently based. Late last week, Facebook was valued at over US$100 billion in its initial public offering on the NASDAQ stock exchange.On Monday, the day Zuckerberg turned 28, Chan graduated from UCSF Medical Center. The guests, a list of under 100 people, initially thought that they would be attending a weekend celebration party for Chan's graduation but attended the wedding instead.Zuckerberg has modified his relationship status on his Facebook page to 'married', a status change which has received tens of thousands of likes. The posting includes a photo of the newlyweds. Chan is wearing a white wedding dress decorated with lace, and Zuckerberg is dressed in a suit with a relaxed, loosely tied knot.Facebook announced Thursday it will begin to share some of the technology from their social network. The company indicated it would like to share specifications and design documents to help startups and to support innovation. Facebook hopes that they will be able to benefit from the innovations of others.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, announced the company's "Open Compute Project" at an event held for reporters at the company's headquarters in Palo Alto, California.Facebook will not directly make any money from the new project. However, by making the designs of its servers open source, the company hopes others will find ways to improve them. They can then incorporate those advances into their own servers. Anything that can make Facebook's servers run more efficiently provides a major benefit for the company.More efficient servers will also drive down utility costs for the social media giant, which relies on massive data centers around the United States to keep its operations going.Facebook says it is already working with manufacturers, including Dell, that are manufacturing servers based on its designs. Some new servers are already available.After a week's block, the social networking website Facebook is finally back in Bangladesh.  Facebook was blocked by local authorities in Bangladesh after some "offensive" content of local politicians were uploaded and one man was arrested. The block was lifted 23:58 local time (17:58 UTC). According to BDNews24.com, Mir Masud Kabir, the Mango Telecom Services managing director, had received a phone call from Major General Zia Ahmed at 11:57 p.m. (17:57 UTC), asking him to lift the Facebook block. Kabir unblocked Facebook a minute later.The authorities had decided to unblock Facebook after the company promised to remove the content considered blasphemous as well as the "obnoxious" pictures of the country's leaders.When the host was calling up the Country Music Award Female Vocalist Of The Year award, Faith Hill stood up and was in shock after hearing Carrie Underwood's name. "What?!," said Faith Hill directly into the camera as her smile turned into a look of shock."The idea that I would act disrespectful towards a fellow musician is unimaginable to me," Hill said in a statement. "For this to become a focus of attention given the talent gathered is utterly ridiculous. Carrie is a talented and deserving female vocalist of the year."Underwood, 2005 former American Idol winner, did not take it seriously, according to her publicist, Jessie Schmidt."She was just messing around," said spokesman Paul Freundlich. "She didn't realize that the camera was rolling the whole time. ... She just thought they were doing a shot when they read the nominees off."Gary Borman, Hill's manager, said that it was just "a joke". Faith Hill had won the Female Vocalist Of The Year award in 2000.The third day of New York Fashion Week debuted styles infused in '70s couture, punk and hard rock roots. Labels Herve Leger, DKNY and Rock & Republic unveiled their Fall 2008 lines, and continued the retro bent popular in the first two days of the world's largest fashion show.Max Azria's Herve Leger label showed off his signature skintight dress in multiple styles Sunday, experimenting with knit fabric as well as coats to complement the dress. Unafraid to take risks, Azria also unveiled elaborate variations which called for sequins, ribbons and large bows, the latter of which was another nod to late '70s fashion. Model Padma Lakshmi walked the runway for Azria, as did actress Sophia Bush and singers Joss Stone and Mandy Moore.DKNY, the main label for designer Donna Karan, took the idea of '70s couture and modernized it, deeming her Fall collection "eclectic glamour." Retro styles such as bow blouses, pants bordering on the bell-bottom design, and peasant fashions were interspersed with more modern knits, silk and plaid designs for tops, dresses and jackets, respectively.Rock & Republic's theme was "gangster chic," and was the biggest contributor to the hard rock feel. Unlike most shows, a complete orchestra with baby grand piano set the soundtrack for the show, which unveiled designs almost exclusively in a somber black. Designer David Cardona was credited with the rock designs, which included black suits and trenchcoats, and are a departure from the high-end denim looks the label is usually known for.New York Fashion Week runs until Friday. On Monday Carolina Herrera and Betsey Johnson are considered to be the biggest draws at Bryant Park.The fourth day of New York Fashion Week debuted few daring designs even from designers known for such work. With few exceptions, the overwhelming theme was "old is new" and that the '70s were even more in fashion than the shows on Sunday suggested. Among the designers to unveil their Fall 2008 lines on Monday were Oscar de la Renta, Carolina Herrera, Betsey Johnson, Proenza Schouler and a rejuvenated Halston line, under the direction of designer Marco Zanini.Both global warming and the slowing economy have been cited as reasons for the overwhelming use of lighter fabrics over heavier attire. Also, retro designs and continuing trends have been used in effort to save money, like the tights that were expected to go out of fashion this year. Even in the glamorous world of high-end fashion, money has been tight, and with the world economies in a collective downturn,  major designers have been more wary of continuing to churn out the stream of couture designs that past Fashion Weeks have seen.Proenza Schouler's show took the '70s retro theme to a fever pitch, liberally using bows on designs and debuting more retro-era wide-legged pants that were first seen in Sunday's shows. Zanini's Halston label also brought back the '70s, resurrecting old designs that the founder of the line made famous. Since the designer Halston's death in 1990, many designers have tried to take the label in different directions. Zanini's unveiling on Monday brought the line back to its Studio 54 roots, while using trenchcoats, sheer fabrics, and cardigans to finish the ensembles with a modern twist.Betsey Johnson also debuted old and new styles on Monday, to celebrate the 30th anniversary of her fashion label. Copies of her original 1978 one-piece bathing suit as well as some early 1980s fashions started off the show. Her new pieces, such as animal print leggings coupled with a short twill jacket, were perceived as very skintight and criticized for not representing more fuller figures. Johnson brushed off the criticism, noting, "It's tighter and sexier, but I still believe the girl brings the sex to the clothes...You won't look sexy in a tight, below-the-knee skirt if you don't feel good in it."The lone daring designer for the day was Carolina Herrera, who discarded the furs she promoted in the Fall 2007 show to focus on a Peter Pan theme, with earth tones and bird feathers. To further the "flying Peter Pan" motif, models donned such designs as a chiffon dress with ostrich feathers and a taffeta gown with a feather waistband.Oscar de la Renta opted for more traditional blacks, golds and grays, debuting lines for men and women in fabrics he is familiar with. Men were outfitted in tweed while women were fitted in dresses that experimented with embroidery and tulle, both shades of past collections.New York Fashion Week runs until Friday. Among others, labels Badgley Mischka, Diesel, and Vivienne Tam unveil their newest collections on Tuesday.The first two days of New York Fashion Week have debuted fashions similar to past years. Since Friday's opening of what is the world's largest fashion show, many designers have unveiled their newest designs. These include turtleneck sweaters and miniskirts. However, the ubiquitous fashion staple seen on the runway has been incorporated in designs that are even shorter than in past years.Major labels Nicole Miller, Lacoste, BCBG, and Baby Phat debuted their styles in the first two days of the week-long extravaganza, nominally the official unveiling of the Fall 2008 styles and leading up to similar fashion shows in Los Angeles, London, Paris and Milan. If the first two days of Fashion Week are any indication, another year of miniskirts are in vogue, partnered with tights, which were widely expected to go out of fashion for 2008.Day one kicked off with a Red Dress Campaign fashion show, aimed at educating people on the dangers of heart disease. Among the celebrities to walk in red gowns for the Red Dress fashion show were Rita Moreno and Liza Minnelli.Talk of a budding recession in the United States has sparked fears in the couture world, in which a lackluster fashion season can make or break many designers, both up-and-comers and established names. New York designer Nanette Lepore has led the charge to save money by only debuting two different collections a year.New York Fashion Week runs until Friday. Designers yet to unveil their fall lines include Oscar de la Renta, Anna Sui, Bill Blass, Michael Kors, Vera Wang, and Diane von Fürstenberg.Researchers at Oxford University are using state-of-the-art technology to uncover works from some of the most important writers of the ancient world, works which have not been read for many centuries. They come from a cache of papyri that were salvaged about a hundred years ago in the Greco-Egyptian town of Oxyrhynchus.The ink on many of these papyri had faded to the point that no text at all was visible to the naked eye, yet using state of the art techniques borrowed from satellite imaging, researchers were able to use infra-red light to see the faded ink. There are thousands of manuscripts which are set to be read in this manner, and works of Sophocles, Euripides, and Hesiod which have been unavailable for well over a thousand years have already been recovered. The process by which these papyri are reconstructed is very time consuming — it will take a decade to finish the entire corpus. Among the documents set to be analysed include previously lost writings of Aeschylus, Ovid, and a series of Christian gospels.In late August, the Canadian city of Toronto celebrated the quarter century anniversary of Fan Expo Canada, a massive annual pop culture convention. Running from August 22 to 25, the event featured extensive retail areas, panels, celebrity appearances, an artist alley, and attendees in cosplay. Wikinews attended.At the panel "Breaking Into Comics," speakers shared their insights into getting started as a comic artist or writer. Comic artist Jenn St-Onge (Nancy Drew, Jem and the Misfits) told of being forced to re-evaluate her life, after growing up with ample positive reinforcement about being an artist. "In my first stint, I didn't get any work. [...] to come back and get that kind of second chance, eight years ago, it feels really good to have people coming to you and being 'I want you to work,' and basically working seven days a week for the last eight years.""You have to work those seven days to earn a weekend," quipped Valiant Entertainment editor Heather Antos, later in the panel. While all agreed that time off was rare as a freelancer, artist Leisha Riddell emphasized the need for boundaries, saying "this weekend, I'm becoming part of the couch and playing video games until my eyes go blurry."Actress Denise Crosby is set to appear in the final season of Suits, a Toronto-shot legal series. The actress recalled her season with Star Trek: The Next Generation, when they were the "scrappy little red headed stepchild of the [Paramount] lot."Underwhelmed with her role, she left the series toward the end of its first season. "This is not what I wanted to become an actor for. I didn't want to stand on the bridge and just go 'aye aye captain,' you know, and not even move. I actually asked them to make up some fake legs" to place at the character Tasha Yar's bridge station, which was on a risen platform. "You could just stick my legs, just fake legs, and I had no lines[....] You gotta know that Tasha's on her command post, but just put the legs there, just keep the camera low."Actor Brendan Fraser's appearance at the convention was directly from filming The Professionals in South Africa. He quipped "I still have dust in my shoes."The cast of the sitcom Kim's Convenience had a panel in a room for 700 people. The popular series is based on a 2011 stage play about a Korean-Canadian family that operates a convenience store. Simu Liu, one of the series leads, is to play the titular character in Marvel film Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings (2021).Lead Paul Sun-Hyung Lee talked about how the series has been underestimated "up 'til now." During the premiere, "I felt like Cinderella at the ball [...] I'm a jobber, I've been working as an actor for like, close to 25 years, lots of small roles. Expositionary characters, never asked to carry anything, to be a lead, to actually have a background story. And so to finally be able to do an entire season of television as one of the lead actors was tremendous".Hasbro hosted a panel about their Star Wars products, which promoted their new action figures and helmets. The company's upcoming replica helmet is of Luke Skywalker's X-wing helmet, their "number one requested hero helmet [...] This by far is the most labor-intensive helmet to date." While previous helmets have included movie sound, this product includes lights to simulate the enemy ships going past your head.Asked about sustainability, the company noted that recently they had switched to a bio-based PET for their packaging, "which was more plant-based plastic for greater environmental concerns. [...] This week, Hasbro announced that we're [...] looking to switch away from plastic altogether, in terms of our packaging [...] we're very much aware that a lot of times times plastic is [...] ripped off and discarded, so we're constantly trying to improve on that as a company to improve our environmental footprint."The event played host to the Rocket League WGN North American Championship, with the winning team receiving C$10,000 and a trip to a professional circuit event.Two weeks ago, FanFiction.Net purged the site of much of the adult content, surprising many fan fiction readers and writers; leaving several archives on the Internet unprepared for a deluge of new users, problems continuing to this day.  FanFiction.Net removed around 62,000 stories after a change allowing writers under the age of eighteen to register.FanFiction.Net spelled out the reasons for their purge on the front page of the site:According to alixe75 on LiveJournal's ffdotnetrants, FanFiction.Net deleted 2,002 Naruto stories, 1,497 Twilight stories, 1,256 Harry Potter stories, 670 Glee stories, 364 Inuyasha stories, 364 Hetalia - Axis Powers stories, 282 Kingdom Hearts, 213 Pokemon stories, 143 Yu-Gi-Oh stories, 127 Dragon Ball Z stories and  47 Doctor Who stories amongst others. rahirah on Dreamwidth provided another statistic, "Approximately 11% of all BtVS [Buffy the Vampire Slayer] stories were zapped. That may not sound like much, but FFnet is big - that comes to thousands of stories."  feckless-muse on Dreamwidth reported the purge included banning users. Despite the purge, Alexa reports no drop in traffic to FanFiction.Net.The stage has yet to be set, the lights haven't even been hung, but Juno fever is already starting to grip Canadians.The 34th annual Juno Awards honoring Canadian music is scheduled to take place at the MTS Centre in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada April 3 and it appears that people want to be a part of the action. Five hundred advance ticket packs that went on sale Friday at 10 a.m. (Canadian central time) sold out almost instantly. Tickets for the event will officially go on sale Saturday February 12, also at 10 a.m. Those tickets are expected to cost anywhere from CA$40 to CA$116, depending upon seating.Tickets for the show have sold out quickly in previous years. The music awards show has gained popularity ever since private broadcaster CTV began broadcasting it live in 2001. Last year the broadcast attracted 1.51 million viewers, making it the most-watched show of the evening.This year Brent Butt will host the show with K-os, Billy Talent, k.d. lang, Neil Young, and The Tragically Hip already confirmed to perform. Earlier this week when nominations were announced Avril Lavigne led the pack with five nods. The rebel pop star was followed closely by Diana Krall who received four nominations for her album The Girl In The Other Room.Fans have spontaneously gathered in many places around the world to both mourn and celebrate Michael Jackson who died yesterday. In New York, a crowd of 200 people gathered, to dance and sing, under the marquee of the Apollo Theater on 125th Street in Harlem, where the Jackson Five famously performed at Amateur Night, which read "In Memory of Michael Jackson, A True Apollo Legend, 1958–2009".In Los Angeles, California, hundreds of fans gathered outside of the UCLA Medical Center where Jackson had been taken by paramedics.At the Hollywood Walk of Fame, fans gathered at the star for radio commentator Michael Jackson.  Jackson's own star, located at 6927 Hollywood Boulevard, was inaccessible because of the premiere of Brüno taking place at Grauman's Chinese Theatre.Fans at the 2009 Glastonbury Festival exchanged the news via text message. Ironically, false rumours of such celebrity events have been common at the Festival in past years, as attendees have little access to news services. As a consequence many fans have not believed the news, and will not believe it until it is announced from on stage or printed in one of the Festival's own daily newspapers later today, as Jackson's death occurred at 22:26 last night local time. Some people, however, have been playing Jackson's music backstage, and an impromptu tribute to Jackson was held at the Festival's "Stone Circle". The Festival officially begins today, and it is expected that several performers will pay tribute to Jackson.In Toronto, fans gathered outside of the studio of MuchMusic, which adjoins the street, to watch as a special commemorative programme was broadcast live from the studio.Pop culture event Toronto ComiCon continued to grow this year, the sixth year since its restructuring as a three day program. Beginning on Friday evening, it continued through to Sunday. Organized by the same company as Fan Expo Canada, the event offered exhibitors, retailers, an artist's alley, and panels.Cast members from Canadian teen show Degrassi Junior High were among the featured guests at the convention. While the current series in the franchise, best known as Degrassi: The Next Generation, has spawned Broadway star Jake Epstein, rapper Drake, and others, the earlier show including Stacie Mistysyn and Stefan Brogren remains popular, particularly in Canada. Brogren told industry publication Kidscreen: "A part of me thought we would do it for five years and maybe get recognized for a couple of years afterwards and then that would be it. I had no idea it would turn out to be such an important thing in so many peopleʼs lives and not just in Canada, but around the world."The current program is now distributed by Netflix, and Brogen remains a cast member as school principal, in addition to being a producer and director.It was the first time the cast did a convention event. The cast also plan to tour to other conventions in Canada this year.Also appearing were Robert Picardo, the holographic doctor on Star Trek: Voyager, and Ray Park, Darth Maul in Star Wars: The Phantom Menace.Panels at the convention focused on topics like steampunk costuming, wig styling, recently rebooted comic Captain Canuck, toy collecting, and the history of comic books in Canada over the decades, in conjunction with Canada's sesquicentennial year. Cast members from The Sean Ward Show appeared at the event, meeting guests to the convention and hosting a panel about the superhero comedy YouTube channel which has more than 600 million views.The arrangements for the funeral of American actress Farrah Fawcett were announced today, after she died last Thursday after a battle with cancer.The funeral is to be a private one, open only by invitation, held at the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels in Los Angeles at 23:00 UTC (16:00 PDT) on June 30, 2009.Fawcett's son, Redmond O'Neal, who is currently in jail on a narcotics charge, has been permitted to attend the funeral under a compassionate licence granted by commissioner Jane Godfrey.  He will not be wearing his jail uniform, but will be required to be in handcuffs.Fawcett played Jill Munroe in the 1970s television series Charlie's Angels, which made her internationally famous. During her career, she was nominated for several Golden Globes and Emmys.Rafiq Qureshi, the father of Rubina Ali, a child star of the Academy Award winning movie Slumdog Millionaire, has been accused of trying to sell his daughter. Qureshi was brought in for questioning by Indian police after a British news agency made accusations that he tried to sell his daughter. Ali played the character Latika. Ali was the youngest actress in the movie, only 9 years old.  She currently resides in a very poor area of Mumbai with her step-mother, father, and brother.  Funds have been set up for Ali's education and the local government has agreed to give housing to the children in the family.News of the World says the alleged sale came to light during a sting operation performed by the news agency. They allege that Qureshi tried to sell his daughter for US$290,000 (£200,000) to his brother-in-law Rajan More."On Sunday, Rubina's mother Khurshid complained to us that her ex-husband was trying to sell her daughter, saying she saw some reports on television to that effect," said deputy Indian police commissioner, Nisar Tamboli to Reuters. Police say he tried to sell Ali to his brother-in-law because the family was not happy with the amount of money Ali was getting from her role in the film. More says Ali is not happy with living with her father."I have to consider what's best for me, my family and Rubina's future. We've got nothing out of this film," said Qureshi as alleged by News of the World who also alleges that Ali's brother Mohiuddin was in on the plan.The family denies any wrongdoing and denies they tried to sell Ali."We never thought that we would have to face this. We are poor people, for us, our children are everything. Why would we give her away like that?," said Moinuddin Qureshi, the uncle of Ali.Authorities are continuing to investigate the incident.Legendary R&B singer Fats Domino is missing, three days after Hurricane Katrina hit in his hometown of New Orleans, Louisiana.The singer told his agent, Al Embry, that he planned to stay at his home with his wife and daughter, rather than evacuate.  He has not been heard from since Sunday night.  It was reported on Wednesday that his house was flooded, though there were no reports on whether Domino and his family were able to escape.Domino, 77, lives in the city's 9th Ward, one of the areas hardest hit by Katrina.  Attempts to reach Domino by phone proved futile, as phone lines have not been working in the area since the storm hit.Antoine 'Fats' Domino first gained stardom with one of the first rock n' roll records, "The Fat Man".  The record went platinum, selling over a million copies and hitting #2 on the Billboard charts.  Of Domino's numerous Top 40 singles, perhaps his most notable were Blue Monday and a cover of Blueberry Hill.Domino retired from touring in the 1980s, and has not left the city since, citing his dislike of touring, and his love of New Orleans cuisine.  Not even his induction to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame or an invitation to the White House were able to get Domino to leave the town.Legendary R&B singer Fats Domino has been accounted for, three days after Hurricane Katrina hit in his hometown of New Orleans, Louisiana.Fats Domino was found on Monday by a helicopter searching for residents stranded in floodwaters.  He was identified by his daughter from a photo taken Monday by a New Orleans Times-Picayune photographer.  However, while it is known that Domino was rescued, his whereabouts and the whereabouts of his family are not immediately clear.The singer had told his agent, Al Embry, that he planned to stay at his home with his wife and daughter, rather than evacuate.  He had not been heard from since before the storm hit.  Domino, 77, lives in the city's 9th Ward, one of the areas hardest hit by Katrina.  Attempts to reach Domino by phone proved futile, as phone lines have not been working in the area since the storm hit.Antoine 'Fats' Domino first gained stardom with one of the first rock n' roll records, "The Fat Man".  The record went platinum, selling over a million copies and hitting #2 on the Billboard charts.  Of Domino's numerous Top 40 singles, perhaps his most notable were Blue Monday and a cover of Blueberry Hill.Domino retired from touring in the 1980s, and has not left the city since, citing his dislike of touring, and his love of New Orleans cuisine.  Not even his induction to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame or an invitation to the White House were able to get Domino to leave the town.The FBI have arrested a man and charged him with interstate stalking over allegations he was responsible for nude videos of United States sports news presenter Erin Andrews. The videos appeared on the Internet earlier this year.The FBI believes seven videos of Andrews were made in Nashville, Tennessee in September last year while another one was made in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is believed that the suspect, Michael David Barrett, 48, stayed each time in a room next to Andrews and modified her room's peephole with a hacksaw in order to take the videos with his mobile phone.Barrett was returning from a trip to Buffalo, New York on Friday when he was arrested at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. He has been held over the weekend and made an initial court appearance in Chicago on Saturday.It is alleged that Barrett tried to sell the videos to celebrity website TMZ.com, but one of their employees told Andrews' lawyer. He faces the charge in Los Angeles where TMZ is based and tomorrow a judge will decide whether to send him there or release him on bail. He faces a fine of $250,000 and five years imprisonment if convicted.Marriott Nashville at Vanderbilt University has been identified as the location most of the videos were taken but the hotel involved in the one thought to be taken in Milwaukee remains a mystery. A room Andres used at Milwaukee's Ramada Conference Center had similar damage to its peephole but the room did not match the video and Barrett is not thought to have checked in there, although it is claimed he did reserve a room beside Andrews. It is also claimed he made a similar request when booking his room at the Marriott.Andrews has reviewed several of the videos in an effort to assist authorities with their enquiries. "For my part, I will make every effort to strengthen the laws on a state and federal level to better protect victims of criminal stalking," she said in a statement that thanked the FBI and federal prosecutors. She has topped a Playboy poll for sexiest sportscaster for the last two years running.People who know Barrett have expressed surprise. "I don't think he's even had a traffic ticket... He's as regular a guy as you'll ever meet — a great friend," said his lawyer, Rick Beuke. Barrett's father Frank said the allegations "[do] not match the Mike I know." "He's always been an upstanding, hardworking guy," according to Frank.Local authorities in Chicago, Illinois, United States have asked that the FBI help in the murder and kidnap investigation of the relatives of singer and Academy Award winning actress Jennifer Hudson.On Friday, Hudson's Mother Darnell Donerson, 57 and brother, Jason, 29, were shot and killed in the Southern Chicago home in what authorities are calling a domestic dispute. A cousin had found the bodies at around 2:44 p.m. (CDT) and called 9-1-1. Hudson's nephew, 7-year-old Julian King, was kidnapped from the scene and has not been seen since. An AMBER Alert was issued and police are looking for a 1994 white Chevrolet Suburban or a teal-green Chrysler Concorde.King's mother, Julia Hudson, who was previously reported missing, is pleading for whoever has her son, to release him."I don't care who you are, just let the baby go. I just want my son. He don't deserve this. We're in a state of shock. I don't know what else to do but pray," said Hudson during a press conference on Saturday. The FBI was called in because authorities suspected King might have been taken over state lines.Police have detained and questioned several people, and some reports say that includes William Balfour, who police previous thought to have kidnapped King. Reports say he is Julia's ex-boyfriend, having since been separated. Police deny that he is a suspect in either the murders or kidnapping and will not confirm or deny if he is or was in custody. So far no charges have been filed against anyone for the crimes.The FBI has stated that they believe a dead body found in a white SUV in Chicago, Illinois, is that of 7-year-old Julian King. King was the nephew of American singer and Academy Award winning actress, Jennifer Hudson.King was kidnapped from his home in Chicago on Friday after someone shot and killed Hudson's mother, Darnell Donerson, 57 and brother, Jason, 29. An AMBER Alert was issued shortly after the incident, and on Sunday, a US$100,000 reward was offered for his safe return."[We found a body] who we believe to be the missing victim in Chicago, the nephew of Jennifer Hudson. We are working with Chicago police to get a positive identification of the victim," said the FBI in a statement. An autopsy is scheduled to take place on Tuesday.Police found the SUV, belonging to Jason, while searching for the boy on Monday. It had been parked in an area of brownstone houses and apartment buildings on the West-side of Chicago. It was found around 7:00 a.m. (CDT). Police searched the vehicle as it matched the description of the SUV sought in connection with the murder, kidnapping.Police have detained and questioned several people, and some reports say that includes William Balfour, who police previous thought to have kidnapped King. Reports say he is Julia's ex-boyfriend, having since been separated. Police deny that he is a suspect in either the murders or kidnapping and will not confirm or deny if he is or was in custody. So far no charges have been filed against anyone for the crimes.Leslie Feist was the most successful artist as the Juno Awards concluded in Calgary, Alberta on Sunday. The performer of the internationally-successful single "1234" won in five categories: Album of the Year, Pop Album of the Year, Single of the Year, Artist of the Year and Songwriter of the Year.Veteran group Blue Rodeo won in three categories: Group of the Year, Adult Alternative Album of the Year and Video of the Year.The Canadian Music Hall of Fame added veteran Canadian rock band Triumph to its honour roll. The Humanitarian Award was presented to country performer Paul Brandt while the Walt Grealis Special Achievement Award was presented to Citytv and MuchMusic founder Moses Znaimer.The Juno Awards began in 1970, initially known as the Gold Leaf Awards, and are Canada's most prominent annual music honours. The awards have been nationally televised within Canada since 1975. Next year's ceremonies will be hosted in Vancouver, British Columbia.Ferrari driver Felipe Massa won the FIA Formula One 2008 Gulf Air Bahrain Grand Prix at Bahrain International Circuit, Sakhir, Bahrain. Massa was also the previous year winner. His Ferrari teammate, driver Kimi Räikkönen, ran second after a good start from fourth place on the grid.McLaren Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton failed his start. During the race Hamilton unsuccessfully attacked his former teammate Fernando Alonso (now again a Renault driver), resulting in him losing his front wing, and dropping to last place. He eventually finished a lowly 13th place.Pole Robert Kubica became the highlight of the weekend by winning the pole, but was slow off the start and finished third on the podium. Nick Heidfeld, his BMW Sauber teammate finished fourth. The results puts BMW as the new leader of the Constructors' championship, one point ahead of Scuderia Ferrari.Heikki Kovalainen came fifth and became the only McLaren driver to finish in the points. Jarno Trulli (Toyota) and Mark Webber (Red Bull-Renault) ran 6 and 7 places respectively with Nico Rosberg (Williams-Toyota) closing out the top eight with 1 point.Timo Glock (Toyota) was engaged in a hard battle with Fernando Alonso (Renault) and came 9th ahead of the Spanish 2005 F1 Champion.Ferrari driver Felipe Massa won the FIA Formula One 2008 Grand Prix de France at the Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours, France.Though his teammate Kimi Räikkönen started from pole, Massa was able to get closer and overtake after a problem with exhaust lines onboard Räikkönen's car started.Jarno Trulli did his best to withstand Heikki Kovalainen, McLaren Mercedes, pushing hard on him. Trulli made the first podium finish for Toyota team. This achievement was dedicated to the memory of Ove Andersson, team founder, who died in a rally crash recently.BMW Sauber driver Robert Kubica, the previous GP winner, finished only 5th this time.4 Renault-engined cars occupied the placeholders from 6 to 9th of the final protocol. Mark Webber gained 3 points for Red Bull. Fernando Alonso dropped to 8th place from the 3rd upon the start. His teammate Nelson Piquet Jr. passed Alonso on the closing laps of the race after a slight driving error by the Spaniard.Lewis Hamilton qualified third but was penalized 10 places down the grid after his collision in the previous race. Soon after the start he made an error attacking Sebastian Vettel cutting the Nurburgring chicane and was penalized again by a drive-through penalty. He finished 10th.Ferrari driver Felipe Massa for the third consecutive year won from pole the FIA Formula One 2008 Petrol Ofisi Turkish Grand Prix at Istanbul Racing Circuit, Istanbul, Turkey. Massa was also 2007 and 2006 year winner.McLaren Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton came second after overtook his teammate Heikki Kovalainen on start. Kovalainen later suffered a rear tire puncture from Kimi Räikkönen and dropped to the back while on a pit-stop.Massa's Ferrari teammate, driver Kimi Räikkönen, ran third. This leaves Räikkönen lead in the championship with 35 points, ahead of Massa, Hamilton and Kubica. Ferrari heads over both BMW Sauber and McLaren.In other related news this week, Super Aguri-Honda withdrew from the Formula-1 after participatng in four races this season. The team principal Aguri Suzuki claimed in the press release it all started when SS United Group defaulted it's payment previous years and the absence of support from Honda. The team was put into external administration. Thus the race featured only 10 teams and 20 cars for the first time since the 2005 Chinese Grand Prix.Also in the news, Honda’s Rubens Barrichello, who finished 14th in this race, is now the most experienced Formula One driver of all time surpassing the record of 256 Grands Prix held by Riccardo Patrese since 1993. For this occasion, his car and the helmet design included the "257" marking for this race.TV star Fern Britton is in talks with producers about appearing on BBC One show Strictly Come Dancing.  She was best known for being co-presenter on ITV1's This Morning — and is set to make her TV comeback on the hit show. She has been offered Brendan Cole as her dance partner.One TV source has mentioned that there are many incentives for Fern to appear on the dancing show, including losing weight and also being offered a whole host of TV and magazine deals. The Strictly Come Dancing production team are keen to attract more viewers on this year's series — especially as the programme will be going head-to-head with the new series of ITV1 hit singing show The X Factor, which appeals specifically to the 16–30 year old viewing market.The BBC has yet to confirm or deny any contestants on Strictly Come Dancing.Jim Cramer, CNBC's host of Mad Money, plans to appear on The Daily Show Thursday, in the midst of an escalating feud between Cramer and the Comedy Central show's host, Jon Stewart.Jim Cramer has been the only CNBC employee to publicly respond to Daily Show segments strongly criticizing the television business news channel's financial coverage during the growing global recession, particularly focusing on specific remarks by made by Cramer.The feud began on March 4, when The Daily Show aired an eight-minute clip lampooning CNBC. The comedy news show featured several clips of pundits, focusing particularly on predictions or reports by CNBC reporters that The Daily Show argued were overly optimistic or too strongly slanted in favor of the companies being discussed.In one clip, a CNBC host reported Merrill Lynch said it would not need capital, which The Daily Show followed with a list of billions in bailout money the financial services firm has required since September. In another clip, Jim Cramer is shown allegedly affirming "Your money is safe in Bear Sterns", followed by a Daily Show statement that the global investment bank went under six days later. “If I’d only followed CNBC’s advice, I’d have a million dollars today," Stewart said during the bit, "provided I’d started with a hundred million dollars."Although most CNBC reporters and executives declined to comment, Cramer defended himself in a column published Monday, claiming the clip was taken out of context. Cramer said he wasn't talking about buying Bear Sterns stock, but simply reassuring a viewer that his liquidity held in Bear Sterns was safe."The absurdity astounds me," Cramer said of the Daily Show bit. "The fact that I was right rankles me even more."Later that day, The Daily Show responded with another montage of clips, this time more specifically targeting Cramer. "So Jim Cramer, I apologize," Stewart said ironically, then promptly showcased video of Cramer suggesting the safety of Bear Stearns stock 5 days prior to the collapse of Bear Stearns on Mad Money's Lighting Round. Provokingly, Jon Stewart then admitted, "He's not saying literally 'I'm asking you to buy Bear Stearns,' for that you have to go back a full 7 weeks" this time showing video footage of Cramer on January 24, 2008, telling TheStreet.com TV viewers to specifically "buy Bear Stearns" stock 7 weeks before it collapsed. The following day on March 10, Cramer responded again during a Tuesday appearance on the Today show, saying, "[Jon Stewart] is a comedian, and he's decided to focus on some calls I made during a bull market. The guy is a comedian. Did I make a mistake? First of all, any time you recommend a stock and it goes down, you've made a mistake. Here's a shocker: Almost every stock is down! Any stock you recommended is bad. You know, Warren Buffett, I could run tapes from him, he would look like a complete fool."The feud between The Daily Show and CNBC generated a significant amount of attention in the mainstream media. The Associated Press called the first Daily Show bit a "brutal takedown" of CNBC. Other publications, like New York magazine, defended CNBC, writing, "We doubt there's a single news outlet that hasn't made a misstatement regarding the economy in the past year."The Thursday Daily Show sketch ran the same day CNBC reporter Rick Santelli was scheduled to appear on the show, to discuss his vocal criticisms of President Barack Obama's plans for dealing with foreclosures. Santelli cancelled the appearance, but Daily Show executives said the CNBC montage was not retaliatory and that they planned to show it before the cancellation was announced.The Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) has revealed the details of the cost-cutting measures for Formula One that were agreed on Wednesday in talks with the teams. The new measures are expected to save the manufacturer teams at least 30 percent of their budgets next season, with the savings increasing as more of the measures are introduced in the future. The raft of agreements has saved the teams from the threat of standardised engines until at least 2013 and savings for independent teams are predicted by the FIA to be even higher.For next season the engines will now have to last 3 races, rather than thee current 2 race requirement, and each driver is allowed up to 8 engines throughout the year and the team is allowed a further 4 for testing. Engines will now be rev limited to 18,000 rpm and Renault managed to obtain agreement from the other teams for modifications of its engine to bring it into line with the other engines in the sport. Testing will be affected, with in season testing banned and wind tunnels not to exceed 6:10 scale or 50 metres per second. Teams will be expected to share fuel and tyre data at grand prix in an effort to save on the manpower requirement at the race weekends. The teams will also have to close their factories for 6 weeks a year. The FIA will also be conducting research into the possibility of using a medal system for F1 next season, an idea championed by Bernie Ecclestone, the boss of Formula One Management.Starting in 2010 more changes will come into force, with the introduction of the cheaper engines being made available to independent teams, costing less than €5 million per season. Any contracts for the cheaper 2010 engines will have to be signed by the 20th of December, 2008. Another engine freeze will occur at the start of the 2010 season, with the engines from 2010 continuing through to the end of 2012. The FIA also intends to try to introduce standardised transmission systems in 2010 and will look at chassis design to determine which aerodynamic parts will be standardised or allowed to be competitive differentiators. Races will see more changes in 2010 with the use of tyre warmers and refuelling banned, and the possibility of shorter race distances has been put forward pending market research. What work the teams can engage in at the factories will also be further limited this season to reduce the manpower and other running costs.The FIA has raised the possibility of a new power train entirely to be developed for the 2013 season, in consultation with the Formula One Teams Association, and will also discuss making Kinetic Energy Recovery Systems (KERS) compulsory from 2010. KERS, which is being introduced as a voluntary measure in 2009, has divided the teams with some embracing the technology while others, such as Ferrari, have criticised it.The Belgian French-speaking public television channel RTBF interrupted its programming last night for a special news bulletin  reporting that the Flemish Parliament had suddenly created an independent Flemish state separate from Belgium. However, during the broadcast it became clear that the report was actually a documentary meant to stir up the debate on the position of the states and regions in the federal country Belgium. Walloon Minister of Media Fadila Laanan said that the message "this is fiction" appeared only at her request, after she had received several "panic" calls and text messages.During the report, King Albert II of Belgium was alleged to have left the country to show his disagreement with the unilateral Flemish decision. Several politicians (Jean-Marie Dedecker, Jean-Marie Happart, Herman De Croo etc.) contributed in the making of the program, giving their reaction to the news and explaining some of their views on Flemish independence. There were images of thousands celebrating in Antwerp and flag-waving independence supporters in front of the Royal Palace in Laken, but also trams stuck at the "new border", and traffic jams in the direction of Brussels Airport. After a while more comedy entered the report; two Flemish policemen where shown to be called into action to patrol the border, and Guy Vanhengel (VLD) was interviewed inside the Atomium, the monument symbolic of Belgium, where he spoke of a "monumental" mistake. The report was followed by a debate on the subject of the Flemish independence movement.The head of news at RTBF reacted: "We obviously scared many people - maybe more than we expected," and this was indeed the case. A spokesman of Belgian Prime Minister Verhofstadt stated late last night that the newspaper Le Monde had already called them, and that CNBC already thought it was not fictional. Several embassies reported the news to their countries, and a Belgian representative in the European Parliament reported "consternation". A survey by the RTBF shows that 89% of spectators admit being fooled by the report, with even 6% continuing to believe it after the fiction notice appeared.Leaders on both sides of the country spelled out their appall: Elio Di Rupo said it is "...unacceptable to play with the institutions and the stability of the country.", while Yves Leterme, Minister-President of the Flemish government, regretted that some of the Flemish demands were caricatured. Pro-independence politicians such as Filip Dewinter and Bart De Wever didn't hide their approval of the fake news report. Several politicians have criticized the method used by the RTBF, and expect that this will reflect badly on the credibility and reputation of the channel. The usual RTBF news studio and anchorman were used to make the fictional report.The incident is headline news in Belgium. The report comes at a time of a growing discussion on the topic of granting Flanders more independence from Belgium, one year before the elections in Belgium. Only last week, the pro-Flemish political parties CD&V and NVA announced that they would demand a major constitutional change during the next federal negotiations.A Fiesta Season of two  weeks begins in Colombia in December 25 with the Feria de Cali followed by the Feria de Manizales and the Carnival of Blacks and Whites in Pasto.The 48th Feria de CaliBegins at 1:00 pm in the city of Cali and the opening ceremony includes a Cabalgata, (Horseriding Parade). During the Feria, there will be bullfighting events and shows, salsa and Caribbean music concerts until December 30. This year concerts will include renowned salsa artists such as Jonny Pacheco, Sergio Vargas, Jose Feliciano, Carlos Vives, Sonora Carruseles from Miami among others.Feria de ManizalesThis is the Feria of Pasodoble, the musical rhythm that accompanies the bullfighting events. These festivals are to be celebrated from January 2nd to January 9th. It includes a beauty contest with the participation of 24 beauty queens from different countries.  The beauty queens will be homage in a sort of Petals-Rain Parade on the main streets of the city of Manizales.There will be 16 venues music concerts, each one specializing in different music types including Salsa, Vallenato, Pasodoble, music of the 60’s, tango, etc.Carnival of Blacks and WhitesBeginning with a pre-carnival event on December 28th, the carnival begns on January 2nd with a parade of “Colonies” is the most picturesque carnival of the country.On December 4 is the arrival of the Castaneda family, a krewe parade where a typical settler family from the north of Colombia caricatured.  On December the 5th people will play to paint each other in black to celebrate the Day of the Blacks and on December the 6th the whites will take revenge by to throwing white talcum to everyoneFIFA, the world's governing body for football (soccer), and the European Union are set to collide over the controversial 6+5 Rule.The problem is that FIFA wants to limit the number of foreign players in the starting 11 to a maximum 5 players per side while the European Union allows free movement of workers making FIFA's 6+5 Rule illegal within the European Union.Despite the legal issue about the 6+5 Rule within the European Union, FIFA President Sepp Blatter presented the 6+5 Rule to FIFA Congress where the member national associations of FIFA would vote on examining the issue further.The FA in England was quoted on their website saying, "At today's meeting of the FIFA Congress in Sydney, The FA voted in favour of further exploration of the "6+5" rule proposed by FIFA President Sepp Blatter." The FA further said, "The resolution, adopted overwhelmingly by the Congress, requested that the FIFA and UEFA Presidents work with key figures within the world of sport to examine how the proposal might work within the limits of the law."The FA, the national association for England, indicated that having more "high-quality English players" is an "absolute priority."A reservation of the FA is the legality of the 6+5 Rule but they "welcome further exploration of its legality."Spain and Real Madrid Goalkeeper, Iker Casillas, has also indicated to be in favour of FIFA's 6+5 Rule stating, it would be "exceptional" for players developed for "Homegrown player."On May 8, the European Union voted against the 6+5 Rule and have indicated that they will take legal action against any national association within the European Union that introduces FIFA's 6+5 Rule.Depending if and how fast FIFA gets their way, the 6+5 rule can be implemented as soon as 2012 with smaller variations leading the way to 2012.Caracas, Venezuela — The fifth edition of the Expo Gastronomía food event finished its run yesterday in Caracas at the Plaza Francia in Altamira. It was the first time the event was held at this particular location. Starting on Thursday, it was the first edition of the event to be held in 2013, and was organized by Carlos Garcia and Yolanda Martin.In its fifth version, the exhibition organizers estimated to receive between 10,000 and 13,000 people to the event, which had nine pavilions representing eight countries around the world. The exhibitors were divided into four categories: typical food of the country they represent, handicrafts, gastronomy (comprised of cooking books and products, and metalwork ((es))es:Orfebrería: ‍orfebrería), and hotel businesses and tourism.The event was sponsored by Coca-Cola, La Granja, Oroweat, G2000 Events, CGYM Group, and the Chacao Mayor's Office. In addition, the food company Cosecha San José participated as one of the exhibitors. According to organizers, the sixth edition of the event is planned for later this year.The festival first took place on April 2011, with a attendance of around 3,000 people. On that occasion, eight countries participated in the event.Joe Handley, Premier of the Northwest Territories, accused the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) of ignoring his province in Hockey: A People's History (H:APH). From the producer of Canada: A People's History, H:APH is a ten-hour-long miniseries about the origins of Canada's most beloved past times.The series debut, which aired Sunday on the CBC, centred on games in Nova Scotia and Montréal as being the most importantc dates for the modern game. A group of enthusiasts called the Society for International Hockey Research has long supported the competition on March 3, 1875 in Montréal as the game's birthplace. The game was describe in the news issue of the Montréal Gazette.Handley, however, supports the Northwest Territories town of Deline as the sport's true roots. British explorer John Franklin refers to his expedition team playing "the game of hockey, played on the ice", while at Grey Goose Lake outside what is now Deline. This journal entry, discovered in 2003, was written in October 1825. The Society for International Hockey Research at the time hailed this as an important finding for sport historians.Handley, who saw the episode on tape in his Yellowknife offices, told CanWest News Service that "I was disappointed... [the filmmakers apparently] didn't do their research."The Member of the Legislative Assembly for an area including Deline, Norman Yakeleya, called the documentary "shameful. This is our holy grail. They didn't give any credit to the North."While the producers were aware of the expedition, and other early games, a CBC spokesperson suggests that the choice was made as the Montreal game is "generally considered to have been clearly reflective of the modern game."The Paul Gross-narrated documentary does make acknowledgements to stick and ball sports from Ancient Egypt, as well as golf-on-ice games in 16th-century Europe.Halifax-Dartmouth and Windsor, both of Nova Scotia, and Kingston, Ontario are three other cities who have laid claim to the honour.A fighter jet crashed, killing the pilot, at Hat Yai International Airport, Songkhla​, Thailand this morning during an annual Children's Day airshow.The JAS 39C Gripen crashed onto a runway at around 9:30 am local time (0230 UTC) and exploded, closing the airport to commercial flights. The pilot was identified as Squadron Leader Dilokrit Pattavee. Local media reports an airport fire vehicle rolled over while responding.Children screamed in video footage of the crash. The Royal Thai Air Force asked that images of the accident not be shared, but this has not deterred the press. Air Force spokesperson Pongsak Semachai said an investigatory commission would be formed. Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha offered his sympathies to Pattavee's relatives.Thailand began purchasing the Swedish-built Gripen jets in 2008 and has twelve. None of its neighbours have similar aircraft, which cost the nation around 2.5 billion baht (US$70 million) each.One of the world's largest distributors of Filesharing software, LimeWire, has been placed under permanent injunction by the US District Court in the Southern District of New York, to cease distributing and supporting its software.  The injunction, requested by multiple parties including Bertelsmann Music Group, Motown, Capitol Records, and Sony Entertainment, was filed and approved 26th October and was issued under Title 17 U.S.C §502, covering infringement of copyright.The injunction states that LimeWire "intentionally encouraged direct infringement" and "...failed to implement any meaningful technological barriers or design choices aimed at diminishing infringement."  Since the order was approved, LimeWire has closed its website, posting a notice on the front page explaining the situation, with a link to a copy of the injunction.As ordered, the software is no longer downloadable from its website. LimeWire is now only responding to inquiries from the press and paid customers of LimeWire Pro. LimeWire could not be reached for comment.Popular Filipino social commentator and tour guide Carlos Celdran staged a protest action in Manila, Philippines against church opposition to the Reproductive Health Bill. Dressed as Jose Rizal, Celdran, 37, entered Manila Cathedral during a mass with Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim, Manila Archbishop Gaudencio Cardinal Rosales, the Papal Nuncio Archbishop Edward Adams, and other Catholic bishops present, standing before the altar with a sign bearing the word "Damaso" — a reference to the villainous, power-wielding Spanish friar from Rizal's novel Noli Me Tangere, who represents the abuses of the Catholic Church during the 19th century Spanish occupation of the Philippines. He shouted "Stop getting involved in politics!" before he was taken away by the police at around 4:30 p.m. Once outside, Celdran said the Church officials "need to hear what the Filipinos are saying: that 90 percent of the people want the RH [Reproductive Health Bill]."At around 8:15 p.m. the Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines filed charges against Celdran for violation of Article 133 of the Revised Penal Code, which prohibits "offending religious feelings." Sorsogon Bishop Arturo Bastes, who previously headed the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines-Episcopal Commission for the Biblical Apostolate (CBCP-ECBA), said, "What is approved by people does not mean it is approved by God." Celdran reported in a media interview following his arrest that "I kinda showed the [priests] what [civil disobedience] was like. The Millennium Development Goals of the Philippines hinge on controlling the population and maternal health, but they have done nothing but lie and blackmail...the Presidents and deprive the poorest of the poor of reproductive health services." He had announced the action via tweet the previous day, saying: "Carlos Celdran is going to go to Manila Cathedral at 3pm to COUNTER the CBCP/Bible anti-RH group. Anyone want to join me?"Celdran has been tweeting and giving media interviews from his jail cell. Through Twitter he expressed surprise that the Catholic Bishop's Conference of the Philippines filed charges. He faces up to five years in prison. At approximately 5:25am Manila time, he tweeted "its just hitting me now. I can't believe the CBCP [Catholic Bishop's Conference of the Philippines] has the capacity and the desire to see me jailed. Who is next?"It appears that this action was part of a larger program of protest, as the previous day he had invited his Facebook friends to a flash mob photo opportunity in front of the Catholic Bishop's Conference of the Philippines taking place October 1, where he reported he would be wearing a bishop's costume.Celdran was freed almost a day later on 6,000-peso (US$138) bail. Friends of the artist had set up a Facebook fan page calling for his release, drawing more than 12,000 supporters by the time he posted bail."I apologize for being rude, but it was necessary for me to be rude," he told reporters while in custody on Thursday. "I am sorry for the method that I used but I have no apologies for the message that I made."In a statement Friday, Manila's 238 priests expressed "disapproval and condemnation" of the protest."These actions cannot by any means be considered within the purview of freedom of expression," the statement said. "Instead they were malicious acts directed towards a faith, a religion that was represented by its leaders and the faithful gathered."President Benigno Aquino's support of the people's right to contraception has angered the Catholic Bishop's Conference of the Philippines and galvanized church opposition to the Reproductive Health Bill, that calls for contraceptives to be provided in government hospitals and sex education to be taught in public schools."We are approaching these issues from the moral aspect like the unborn. Abortion is a grave crime, excommunication is attached to those (acts). That is an issue of gravity. That is a violation of God’s commandment," said Odchimar over the Church-run Radio Veritas.Malacañang Palace shrugged off Odchimar’s declaration. "We are guided by our conscience. My position has not changed. The state’s duty is to educate our families as to their responsibilities and to respect their decisions if they are in conformity to our laws,” President Aquino said.Proponents of the Reproductive Health Bill have argued that rapid population growth and high fertility rates have exacerbated crushing poverty, and birth control could be a powerful way to raise living standards.Two independent filmmakers, Mark Birnbaum and Jim Schermbeck, have created a film covering the 2002 Texas election campaign and the involvement of corporate donations. Their film is called The Big Buy and includes approximately 50 hours of interviews with the Travis County Prosecutor's office, including prosecutor Ronnie Earle, lawyers for those under investigation, and some journalists.Schermbeck and Birnbaum started The Big Buy in February 2003 and billed it as a "Texas noir political detective story that chronicles what some are calling a “bloodless coup with corporate cash.” It follows maverick Austin DA Ronnie Earle’s investigation into what really happened when corporate money joined forces with relentless political ambitions to help swing the pivotal 2002 Texas elections, cementing Republican control from Austin to Washington D.C."The film has suddenly gained notoriety because of the recent indictments of Tom Delay by Travis County District Attorney's office. "We couldn't have given this film away last month," Mr. Schermbeck said. "We couldn't get any attention for it, or any money for it. Now, we're getting the attention, but so far it's still self-financed."The Big Buy draws its title from the idea that political influence can be bought and paid for, Schermbeck said.The filmmakers financed the project themselves and made no payments to any of those interviewed, they said.  "We look at this as witnessing history as it happens," Schermbeck said. "What if there was a film about Sharpstown [ the political scandal in the early '70s that derailed the careers of several Texas politicians]? It would have been great to have that as a historical document. This time we will."The National Review Online, which obtained an unfinished copy of the film last week, has written that it contains footage inside the grand jury room as well as inside the prosecutors office.Presumably that is the same version of the film that was shown to a crowd of about 300 at the Dallas Video Festival in early August. Birnbaum and Schermbeck plan to re-work the ending. Now that Mr. Earle's investigation has focused on Delay, the filmmakers feel it only makes sense.There have been conflicting reports on whether Mr. DeLay's staff said he chose not to grant any interviews to the filmmakers two years ago, or if his office was contacted at all. Mr. Schermbeck said he hopes the congressman will get involved. "We obviously have to do a new ending to this now, and we're going to be calling DeLay's lawyers and staff," Mr. Schermbeck said. DeLay defenders have used the film to attack the indictments handed out, as well as Ronnie Earle. "This is just further proof that this vendetta against congressman DeLay has been scripted from Day 1," said Ben Porritt, a spokesman for Tom Delay who was forced to give up his post as House majority leader after the indictment was handed down.Schermbeck in responding to the various charges said, "We couldn't get past [Delay's] the front door. So we regrouped and decided to approach Mr. Earle about telling the story from his point of view." Bernbeck went on, "I don't think Mr. DeLay's name ever came up. We were as surprised as anyone that he was indicted."Newspapers and Delay defenders have also charged that the filmmakers were given special access to Ronnie Earle and his staff as they examined allegations that Republicans were illegally funneling corporate contributions to the campaigns of Texas state legislative candidates.“Oh yeah, he’s just doing his job. He’s just doing his job. He’s got a film crew that has been following him around for two years to document how he’s going to get Tom DeLay,” DeLay said on a Houston talk radio show Friday.Ronnie Earle responded to the charges, "My office follows all the same proper rules about rightfully protected information for all the media no matter who they are. When somebody said to Harry Truman, 'Give 'em hell, Harry, I just tell them the truth, and they think it's hell.' I told them the truth, and they thought it was a movie. Go figure. I'm just doing my job."Birnbaum and Schermbeck supported Earle's version of events, saying that Earle and his staff gave them some interviews. They also did not get access to any of the secret grand jury proceedings or witness any of the staff’s deliberations in the DeLay investigation.Both Mark Birnbaum and Jim Schermbeck have collaborated on a number of projects in the past. Birnbaum has been working in film since 1969. According to his website he has done everything from production to editing film for PBS and the Discovery Channel all over the world. He also lists various awards he has won, including a Peabody Award. Schermbeck has been a community organizer in Texas for almost 30 years. He has worked with Public Citizen, The National Toxics Campaign, and Downwinders at Risk.Sydney Pollack, Academy-Award winning American film director, producer and actor has died today at his home in Los Angeles, California at the age of 73. The cause of death was announced as stomach cancer.He was born on July 1, 1934 in Lafayette, Indiana, United States. He directed films such as The Way We Were, Tootsie, and Out of Africa.Pollack is survived by his wife, Claire Griswold and 3 children.A film by Isuma Productions of Canada's north will open the 2006 Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF). Produced by an Igloolik, Nunavut company, the film is titled The Journals of Knud Rassmusen, and co-directed by Zacharias Kunuk of Igloolik and Norman Cohn of Montreal.The company received critical acclaim for their first film, Atanarjuat, which translates to The Fast Runner. Released in 2001, TIFF declared Atanarjuat one of the top ten Canadian films of all-time. The film grabbed awards at TIFF, Montreal, Chicago, Cannes, Edinburgh, San Diego, Lake Placid, New Port, and many others.The film portrays the pressures on traditional Inuit culture when explorer Knud Rasmussen introduced European cultural influences to the area in 1922.The film will play three times during the festival, debuting at the "Visa Screening Room" of the Elgin Theatre at 6:30 p.m. local time, Thursday, then at Roy Thompson Hall at 8:30 p.m. The next day, Ryerson University will show the film at 9:30 a.m.The festival attracts independent filmmakers and Hollywood celebrities alike. It will run from 7 to 16 September 2006.Matt Hanson aims to raise £1 million to fund the production of a feature-length film which would be distributed freely via the Internet under a Creative Commons licence, all funded through 50,000 people each donating £25 to the project, which he's called 'A Swarm of Angels'.No stranger to filmmaking, Matt has produced numerous digital short films, a series of books on digital filmmaking and set up the digital film festival onedotzero, now in its tenth year. He wants to finally make a feature length film, and decided that it was better to turn to the Internet for help and funding rather than plod through the usual 'development hell'. "I wanted to put into practice what I’ve been preaching as a film futurist for ten years, and the technology and Internet infrastructure has just really caught up with that vision now for me to put it into practice."The process is inspired by the 'web 2.0' movement, using social and collaborative communities on the Internet. Matt doesn't see the funding as coming from donations, but as people paying a subscription to become part of a 'Swarm'. "Rather than the 'many producer' model, this is more of an [sic] 'smart consumer' model ... members can help implement and bring their expertise into play, and so become more actively involved in the production."The project hopes to use professional actors and crew, but use qualified members from the swarm as much as possible. The cast and the crew, including any volunteers that get chosen, would be paid for their work on the film, with Matt suggesting that this is "a great way for people to get into the industry".Those members not directly involved in making the film can still participate in the process by discussing ideas on a messageboard, and having a vote on certain crucial decisions such as which script gets chosen for production. Asked how he would balance his own creative direction with input from members, Matt said "my vision will lead the project forward and define the parameters, but the Swarm can influence that, and indeed offer improvements or insights I might not think of alone". "Remember filmmaking is always a team effort - whether you are Martin Scorsese, Stanley Kubrick or Jean Luc Godard, you promote people within the project that will complement and bring something extra to the vision of the film. Give it more life. With the Swarm we are making that process more democratic, and giving a wider range of people an opportunity to shine and have creative input."Members are promised a collector's edition DVD of the end product and exclusive merchandise, but the main distribution of the film will be via the Internet, using 'BitTorrent' and peer-to-peer networks. "Unlike many other filmmakers, I'm not wedded to cinema projection as the 'be all and end all' - I'm much more excited about people viewing remixed versions on their video iPods," explains Matt.The 'remixing' of the film will be possible thanks to it being distributed under a Creative Commons licence. Matt suggests that the 'younger generation' is more used to being involved with and interacting with entertainment, and points to remixes of the Star Wars films (eg 'The Phantom Edit') as an example of these 'mashups'. "At the end of the project I would love to have an event that showcased five wildly different versions of the film, different visions from people other than my definitive initial edit," he suggests. The licence will be for non-commercial use only, however, and so commercial TV stations would still have to pay in order to screen the film.The project is partly inspired by the success of 'The Million Dollar Homepage', in which British student Alex Tew aimed to raise a million dollars to fund his university education, simply by selling advertising space on a single web page. The publicity surrounding the idea, coupled with the 'viral' effect of Internet users passing the page on, meant that he eventually managed to make himself the million dollars.The success of these projects partly seems to depend on them being interesting and original enough to attract enough attention, and it’s often difficult to see how they could be repeated. Copy-cat versions of the million dollar homepage have so far failed to hugely take off. When asked about this idea, Matt responded "I already expect people to copy the model we are inventing with A Swarm of Angels - it's a perfect way to create cult media, where the director gets more creative control and organically funds a project, and the fans of the project get more involvement within it. If the market gets too crowded with these projects though, then they’ll have to be packaged differently to stand out. But that’s what traditional film and media projects need to do anyway."Over 600 members have signed up to the 'swarm' so far, which Matt comments is already an early success, but 50,000 members in total will be needed in order to fully fund the £1 million budget. Matt suggests that getting to the next stage, of reaching 1,000 members, followed by the phase of getting 5,000 members, will be the hardest part, as after that the film will be more 'tangible'. He expects to raise the full budget, but comments that if the fundraising stalls, "options will be presented by advisors and The Swarm, and based on some kind of consensus we’ll come up with the best option for moving forward."Traditionally, independent films are funded either through persuading wealthy individuals to invest, who sometimes are sometimes given 'Executive Producer' credits, or through organisations like the UK Film Council, who award funds from the National Lottery. A tax credit for producers making small films in the UK was announced by the government in 2005, in a bid to give a boost to the UK independent film industry.Matt says that the film will be "a thriller with soft science fiction elements", which he says will suit his target audience. "But it will have an indie edginess to it, and be far more visually inventive than you would get with a 'normal' British independent feature." Contributors to the project include artists The Kleptones, who will help with the soundtrack, comic book writer Warren Ellis and documentary filmmaker Grant Gee.The Swarm of Angels project is online at aswarmofangels.com and costs £25 as an individual to become a member.Four members of a filmcrew have been arrested on suspicion of assault after squirting water at movie star Tom Cruise at the London premiere of the War of the Worlds on Sunday evening.The crew were freelancers filming a new comedy show for Channel 4. Channel 4 has no production facilities itself; all television programmes are commissioned from independent companies[1].Cruise had been on a walkabout meeting and greeting fans, and was being interviewed by the crew under the impression that it was a serious interview, when they used a fake microphone to squirt him in the face.Cruise remained calm throughout. He took hold of the culprit, grasping his wrist, asking him why he did it."Why would you do that? What's so funny about that? It's ridiculous. Do you like making less of people?" "Don't run away. That's incredibly rude." "I'm here giving you an interview, answering your questions and you do something nasty. You're a jerk."Security guards then took the filmcrew away, before they were arrested and bailed by the police. The crew face further questioning by officers today. Scotland Yard have said, "We will see whether to pursue the charges, or see whether the victim wants to pursue it."Tom Cruise resumed meeting fans and signing autographs, spending an hour in Leicester Square.New Zealand filmmaker, Peter Jackson and screenwriter Fran Walsh announced at the X06 convention, Wednesday, that they are teaming up with Microsoft to create Xbox and Xbox 360 games with their new company, Wingnut Interactive.Wingnut Interactive will initially create another video game based on sci-fi series Halo with help from Microsoft and Bungie Studios, but staffed locally in Wellington. His second project can be whatever he likes, while trying to bring new people into the world of gaming.Peter Jackson spoke to New Zealand news broadcaster, 3 News and said: "I want to able to experiment with ways of telling stories that's not using the structure of a movie. It's immersive and interactive, but it goes beyond (today's) games. It's what we've been looking forward to for 10 years. I'm sure it will start small and if things go well it will expand to fit whatever this turns into."Simon McCallum, computer scientist from the University of Otago, said: "For the new company to succeed it would probably need to employ a mix of industry veterans and about 20 or 30 top computer science graduates. However, at the moment New Zealand would struggle to fill any new jobs. In the past two years demand for computer science graduates had tripled while supply had halved."The New Zealand Game Developers Association said around 140 people work in the development of video games in New Zealand. They say the industry is worth between NZ$8 million and $10 million each year. "There is a lot of potential to do something very very big and something very revolutionary. We'll just have to see what happens when the game comes out in a few years time, whether they deliver on that," said Mario Wynands, from the New Zealand Game Developers Association.David Mclean, director of Australia and New Zealand Xbox, said: "The whole ten billion dollar video games business will be looking at New Zealand and what Peter Jackson produces. There is no release date yet, because Jackson will take as long as necessary to ensure the games meet his exacting standards."Kerry Prendergast, mayor of Wellington said: "The venture's potential boost to Wellington's economy is enormous. Certainly the early advice I have is that it is worth millions of dollars and more jobs in our city."Peter Jackson is the producer for the movie version of Halo which is to be shot next year, in Wellington. Jackson also worked with Ubisoft to produce the King Kong video game.Jackson said: "Xbox has fundamentally changed how people think about games. My vision, together with Microsoft Game Studios, is to push the boundaries of game development and the future of interactive entertainment."Microsoft also announced at X06 that it is releasing a HD-DVD add-on for the Xbox 360, which will come bundled with a free HD-DVD version of King Kong for a limited time only.New filmmaker Solomon Rothman has released a trailer for his upcoming full length open source film called 'Boy Who Never Slept.' Both the movie and the trailer are offered under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.5 license. The movie is set to be released at the end of May.The film centers on the life of an insomniac writer who meets a teenage girl online, and a friendship that grows into an unlikely love story wrapped in harsh reality. The movie deals with various issues, including the romanticization of love, age-related issues in relationships, like statuatory rape (he's 23, and she's 16), and the idea of love in the online realm.Rothman, a writer, amateur filmmaker and web designer, lives in the Los Angeles Area. He wrote, directed and produced the movie with Aurora Mae, his girlfriend and partner. Producing the movie for $200 while they were in college, they used friends as actors and later sold the camera on eBay to recoup the expense. Rothman has spoken about the power of the internet as a distribution source for movies and has said "I believe it's possible that this movie I shot with no budget and released online for free could potentially reach as many viewers as a major theatrical release."Rothman and Mae started out with the idea of creating a full-length movie that could be shared totally for free online. The film includes a custom soundtrack and script, both of which will be released open source as well.The trailer is available on the official movie website[1] and can also be found on Google video, YouTube.com, Ifilm.com, AddictedClips.com, and the Internet Movie Archives.The third and last bidder for Singapore's Sentosa Integrated Resort (IR) project, Eighth Wonder, submitted its development plan yesterday: a SGD 5.5 billion(USD 3.52 billion) eco-friendly casino known as "Harry's Island".Harry's Island will boast 10 luxury, family-oriented hotels, a tree house with family suites, and a 7,500-seat Caldera theater which will feature nightly spectacular shows.Eighth Wonder says it wants to make Harry's Island a world-class, must-see tourist destination and has roped-in several big names in its tender. If selected, the resort will have spas and health centers run by health guru Deepak Chopra, Vera Wang hotels with access to her entire wedding collection, and a soccer academy with Brazilian soccer icon Pele giving his input.Harry's Island will create around 15,000 jobs, including 5000 in the food and beverage industry.The company believes it can recover its investments by 2015 by generating over $5.6 billion in five years; it hopes to bring nearly 15 million visitors annually by 2014.The Sentosa IR project is the second of two IR tenders offered by the Singapore Government: the first was located in Marina Bay.The Singapore government is expected to announce the winner in December.The final Harry Potter book in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, has gone on sale today. The book was launched simultaneously across the world.The book launched first in the UK, where the book went on sale from midnight. Fans in one central London bookshop started joining the queue from 10:30 p.m., which soon reached the door of the shop and out onto the street. The book chain Waterstone's held 'Harry Potter parties', giving out free glasses of wine and snacks. The mood was good-natured and jolly, with some fans dressed up in costume.New Zealand fans of the series had a launch time of 11.01 a.m. (NZST). Due to high competition among major retail chains, the book was being sold for as little as NZ$32.99 at Whitcoulls; a profit margin of four cents with each book sold. The recommended retail price was NZ$55.00. Many supermarkets in the UK cut prices even further as a publicity stunt with, for example, ASDA selling copies at a loss, at about 1/4 of the recommended retail price.It was also an early release for Australian fans of the series, at 9.01 a.m. (Sydney). A Sydney Borders store had a line reaching out halfway across the street. In Brisbane City, Borders had a line from the shop, down the street and around the corner.150 fans in New Zealand's capital, Wellington, were waiting outside a Border's bookstore at 8.00 a.m. to be some of the first to get their hands on a copy. A bookstore nearby, Dymocks, also had a large crowd, an estimated 100 people were waiting. One person arriving there at 6.30 a.m. At one New Zealand Whitcoulls store, they had a entertainer/magician keeping fans entertained while waiting for 11.01 a.m. In Germany, however, some bookshops were disappointed with the turnout for the Harry Potter book launch events.The Harry Potter series has already sold 325 million copies worldwide. 1.3 million of those were sold in New Zealand, a quarter of New Zealand's population. The Wikipedia article on the latest book became disabled for editing by unregistered and newly registered users within 5 minutes of the book's release.The publishing companies Bloomsbury (U.K.) and Scholastic (U.S.) released cover art for the seventh Harry Potter book, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows."The structures around Harry show evident destruction and in the shadows behind him, we see outlines of other people," David Saylor, Scholastic's art director, said in a statement describing the U.S. version. "For the first time, the cover is a wraparound. On the back cover spidery hands are outstretched toward Harry. Only when the book is opened does one see a powerful image of "He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named", his glowing red eyes peering out from his hood."The children's U.K. version of the cover shows an adult Harry, Ron, and Hermione. The adult U.K. version shows a locket with a serpentine forming an 'S'. It is believed to be a horcrux in which Lord Voldemort stores part of his soul.The seventh, and final, book is due out on July 21, 2007.The U.S. covers for the Harry Potter series are drawn by Mary GrandPré. The U.K. covers are drawn by Jason Crockcroft.A team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) won the challenge to find ten 8-foot (2.4 metre) weather balloons spread across the continental United States, just nine hours after the event's start. In a test of the nation's social networking skills, the US Department of Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) offered US$40,000 (€26,900) to the first team to identify the location of all ten balloons. The event marks the 40th anniversary of ARPAnet, the precursor to today's Internet, a project developed by DARPA.In a statement announcing the winner, DARPA said "the Challenge explores basic research issues such as mobilization, collaboration, and trust in diverse social networking constructs and could serve to fuel innovation across a wide spectrum of applications." They also stated that they intend to "meet with teams to review the approaches and strategies used to build networks, collect information, and participate in the Challenge."The MIT team offered a reward scheme of its own as an incentive to public cooperation, offering US$2,000 to anyone who gave them the coordinates of a balloon. They also gave US$500  to whomever invited the person who gave the correct coordinates to join the challenge. They then gave the person who invited that person US$250, and so on, giving any left over or unclaimed money to charity. The MIT team hoped to " [...] find out how information spreads on the internet, and how online social networks help this spread".Finland now holds the world record for the longest non-stop round of karaoke singing. The country already holds the record for the largest number of karaoke singers at any given time.The previous record was 145 hours, as held by China. However, in a karaoke bar in Kouvola, a small town on Finland's southern coast, the record was surpassed on Wednesday, with the ultimate goal being 240 hours non-stop.Finns travelled long distances to participate at the event, which was broadcast live on the internet.The record goes alongside Finland's other record for karaoke, that of the largest number singing at any given time. This is held by 80,000 fans of the Finnish hard rock band Lordi, who had met in Helsinki for the band to give a brief free concert to celebrate their victory at that year's Eurovision. The show culminated with all 80,000 joining in with the band on the winning song, Hard Rock Hallelujah.Tonight the first Eurovision Dance Contest was held in London. Sixteen countries entered with most of the participants coming from the regional versions of Strictly Come Dancing.The participants and countries, listed in winning order, are:Greece didn't air the show live, and the points given out were decided by a jury of Greek experts. Despite France not taking part, the show was broadcast in English and French. Graham Norton and Claudia Winkleman hosted at BBC Television Centre. Graham Norton kept the audience laughing throughout the show and also sent sent his consolations to both Greece, for their forest fires, and to Switzerland as they were heading for nil-points, which, in the end, they finished with. Despite Finland winning the 2008 Eurovision Dance Contest will also be held in London. If next year's show is popular, the winning country will host the following year's contest, Song Contest style!Finnish actor Markku Peltola has died. He was 51.Peltola was most well known for starring in the 2002 Aki Kaurismäki-directed film The Man Without a Past, which won a Grand Prix award at the Cannes Film Festival and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Film.He also had supporting roles in Drifting Clouds (1996) and Juha (1999), both directed by Kaurismaki. In total he had played over 30 roles in film and television.The Helsinki-born Peltola, son of a taxi driver, was also a guitarist in a band and a director. In 1996 he co-founded Telakka, a theatre-themed restaurant, in his hometown of Tampere. In October 2007 he directed a play there called Activist. His most recent film roles were a small role on the 2006 film Jade Warrior and the Estonian movie I Was Here, which will premiere in that country in September this year.Peltola died in his Tampere home yesterday. According to local media, he had suffered poor health for some time.Lordi, described as "cartoon metalheads" wearing latex monster masks, beat runner-up Russian "heart throb" Dima Bilan to win this year's 51st Eurovision song contest held in Athens, Greece. Bosnia's Hari Mata Hariwas came third.In a spectacular show, hosted by Maria Menounos and Sakis Rouvas, Lordi amassed 292 points after a public vote - 44 ahead of Russia. Greece's singer Anna Vissi, who was one of the favourites to win, came 9th, followed by Ireland's Brian Kennedy. From the start of the song contest as well as during the televoting, the Greek organisers presented viewers choreographies and dances inspired by Greek culture and music, both ancient and modern. In addition, the world famous Greek singer Nana Moushouri was presented by the hosts and gave the sign for the start of televoting.Wielding spark-spewing instruments, the "Monster-themed" rock band beat 23 other competitors, scoring 292 points from telephone voters in 38 countries with its song "Hard Rock Hallelujah" in a performance that both shocked and amused viewers.A spokesperson for Lordi said: "We won the contest, looking like this,” he said. “It just goes to show that Europe is not such a bad place." The Finnish band thanked viewers for voting for their song, which featured the lead singer hoisting a double-headed-axe microphone stand above his head. The win has been dubbed as a "radical departure" from the catchy pop tunes, folk songs and emotional ballads normally associated with Eurovision.Complete with distorted guitars, a catchy chorus and "mock-demonic imagery," Lordi is reminiscent of 1970s American band Kiss - an inspiration acknowledged by lead singer Mr Lordi. "What this has shown is that there are different styles of music than just pop and rock," Mr Lordi told news media after the surprise victory. "That should be the goal of Eurovision," he said.Mr. Lordi, whose real name is Tomi Putaansuu, hails from Lapland and says his band's masked personas are just characters. "The guys behind the masks are not interesting - underneath, there's just a boring, normal guy who walks the dogs, goes to the supermarket, watches DVDs and eats candies. You really don't want to see him." he said. But the characters "live on stage and they live in a fantasy world", he said. "This element of mystery is one of the cornerstones of Lordi." The band has upset many Finns with their outrageous behaviour. "This is a victory for rock music... and also a victory for open-mindedness," Mr Lordi said. "For the millionth time, we’re not Satanists or devil worshippers. This is entertainment. The masks are like our calling card and we’ll never perform without them. It would be like Santa Claus handing a child his gifts at Christmas time and then pulling off his beard…"The 51st annual Eurovision was broadcast live across Europe, watched by an estimated 100 million viewers. Regarded by many as the "contest good taste forgot," Eurovision is adored by fans of kitsch and camp everywhere. Lordi join the likes of Abba, Bucks Fizz, Dana and Celine Dion on the elite list of Eurovision winners.Because of Lordi's first place finish, next year the 52nd Eurovision Song Contest will take place, for the first time, in Helsinki, Finland.Finnish cross-country skier Mika Myllylä, a six-time Olympic medalist, including one gold, has been found dead. He was 41. Police said he was alone at his apartment in Kokkola and no crime is suspected. His cause of death remains unclear. Born 1969 in Oulu, Myllylä won Olympic silver at the 50km cross-country race in Lillehammer, Norway in 1994, and gold at the 30km cross-country race in Nagano, Japan in 1998. These two Games netted him four bronze medals. The 1999 World Championship in Austria saw him win three gold medals and one silver. This and other World Championships saw him gain a total of nine World Championship medals.It was at the 2001 World Championships in his native Finland that things went wrong for Myllylä. A Finnish Ski Association bag was accidentally left at a petrol station close to Helsinki's International Airport; it was handed in to police, who discovered needles, infusion bags and a prescription for banned drug Hemohes (HES) signed off by a team doctor.HES had been banned the previous year by the International Olympic Committee because it reduced hemoglobin concentration and oxygen-carrying red blood cell counts; this allowed it to mask the presence of banned drug erythropoietin (EPO), which raises red blood cell production. Last year Myllylä provided a court with a sworn statement confirming he had used EPO in the decade preceding the controversy.Myllylä and five other Finnish skiers tested positive for HES in what became a national scandal; the Finnish Ski Association's president, and the team's doctors and coaches left or were sacked. Myllylä was handed a two-year sporting ban, after which he returned to competitive skiing; although he twice won the national championships, he gave up in 2005.These events changed Myllylä, according to longtime friend and national cross-country skiing association chair Reijo Alakoski. "He should be remembered as a great athlete... Mika changed completely as a person on the day his doping was made public. It has been sad to watch his descent and anguish from the sidelines over the last ten years." His passing "is a dark day in the history of Ostrobothnian cross-country skiing," said Alakoski.Since then his personal life has been difficult. Drink-driving convictions came in 2008 and 2010 as Myllylä fought alcoholism, and he was thrice convicted of assault. He and his wife Suvi were divorced in 2007."A champion has passed into eternity," according to ex-Finnish Ski Association CEO Jari Piirainen. "Although Mika will of course be remembered for his sporting achievements, we should of course remember that he was also a father." Piirainen also reflected on media attention towards Myllylä: "Maybe it's just... how much pressure we put on our idols and sportsmen. And how do we deal with them when they are at the top – do we accept that people are people and accept that everyone makes mistakes, and forgive them?"Piirainen himself was caught up in the doping scandal after a news story into Finnish doping led to a libel case. Piirainen's statements in court led to him facing a fraud trial, but he was cleared."My heart is broken," Myllylä said when his doping was exposed "and there is no way to describe the amount of my agony with words. I kneel down, admit my defeat and beg for peace for my soul." The then-culture minister, Suvi Linden, said at the time "Everyone who felt joy at the success of the team now feels betrayed."Myllylä fathered three children, whom he is survived by.The terrestrial analogue television broadcasts in Finland ended in September 1, 2007, at 04:00 local time, marking the transition to the digital DVB-T standard. DVB broadcasts were started in 2001, Users of terrestrial TV are no longer able to receive the formerly nationally available TV channels - YLE TV1, YLE TV2, MTV3, and Nelonen - without set-top boxes or TV sets with built-in digital receivers. SVT Europa is also no longer available in analogue networks.Cable networks are permitted to make the analogue mode available until the end of February 2008.While over 75% of households already use digital TV, as of mid-August, over 220 000 households that depend on terrestrial broadcasts have not yet purchased a set-top box. There are also areas where digital terrestrial broadcasts are not yet available. This is being remedied through relay transmitters that will be set up over the following months.A fast-moving fire engulfed the home of late singer Johnny Cash on Tuesday. The lake-side home, located in Hendersonville, Tennessee, was the home of the late singer and his wife, June Carter, from the late 1960s until their deaths in 2003.The home was purchased by former Bee Gees singer Barry Gibb in 2006, and was undergoing renovations at the time. The cause of the fire is unknown at this time, but it is believed that a flammable wood preservative that construction workers had applied contributed to the speed in which the flames spread. Firefighters responded within 5 minutes of the fire breaking out. No workers were killed in the fire, but one firefighter suffered minor injuries."Maybe it's the good Lord's way to make sure that it was only Johnny's house," said Richard Sterban of The Oak Ridge Boys, who lived down the road from Cash. Neighbor Marty Stewart said "So many prominent things and prominent people in American history took place in that house—everyone from Billy Graham to Bob Dylan went into that house." The home was where Cash wrote many of his hit songs, and appeared in the Cash music video for "Hurt".The Los Angeles County Fire Department responded to a fully involved structure fire on the back lot of Universal City Studios in Universal City, California which occurred shortly after dawn. Reports indicate a fire and a explosion occurred around 4:45 local time. The fire continues to burn in the Universal Studios backlot, which is adjacent to the Universal Studios theme park. The "New York Street" sound stage was completely destroyed and the Courthouse Square backlot from Back to the Future, an exhibit on the movie King Kong, the video vault, and a ride known as the "Cyclone" were damaged. County fire inspector Daryl Jacobs said at least three blocks of movie façades may have been destroyed.More than 400 firefighters responded to the three-alarm fire, with helicopters dropping water on the blaze in an attempt to contain it. Three firefighters suffered minor burns, one reportedly from smoke exhaustion. No other injuries have been reported. Several urban search and rescue teams were dispatched to the area.Daryl Jacobs said that the firefighters ran out of water at least twice while battling the flames. "There was an issue with water, but that has been rectified," Jacobs said. "They are shuttling water in." He also said firefighters encountered explosions from propane tanks as they entered the backlot.County fire captain Frank Reynoso said the cause of the fire is still unknown. "It will be a while before we have it under control," Reynoso said.The 2008 MTV Movie Awards, which are scheduled to be broadcast live from the studio theme park Sunday afternoon, will go on as planned, according to an MTV representative. The theme park's opening time has been moved back to noon local time, said a Los Angeles city councilman.Freecol, a free software (under the GNU General Public License) has been released in Piedmontese. This makes the game, clone of Sid Meier's Colonization the first game to have been released in this language which is only spoken by about two million people.Freecol, the simulation of the historical process that lead to the Declaration of Independence in North America, is the first computer game to be localized in Piedmontese language. Players of the game need to take administrative and political actions to reach its goal. Version 0.7.0 in Piedmontese was released on July 13, 2007. Speakers of regional languages hope this will serve as an examplar, so that more localizations of the game in other regional languages will be released over time.The localization was done on Betawiki, the platform which is also used for the localization of the Mediawiki software.File:Kitap kapak son2.jpgA new work has been just added to the list of the works on Turkey that have been made in recent years including the genres of folklore, travel, monography and encyclopedia. "Encyclopedic Dictionary of Black Sea" by Özhan Öztürk is also a first of its field. Etymological explanations are also given for the articles in the encyclopedic dictionary that is a product of work with both original resources and rather rich bibliographies. Encyclopedic Dictionary of Blacksea, a source for many answers on the Black Sea region of Anatolia, looks like a work of a great labor. The dictionary is being published by Heyamola Publications and printed only in limited numbers. It can be a scientific resource for those who are interested in the history, culture and folklore of Black Sea. The author of the encyclopedia evaluates his work of 1260 pages:"I don’t know why no archeological excavations have been made in the Pontic coast of Anatolia. Querying why no excavations have been made in such a region that has a dense settlement as mentioned in Anabasis of Xenophon (B.C 401) is not the subject of this book. However, undoubtedly it will not be an optimistic experience to see that less excavations have been made here than in Crimea and Colchis. Another interesting and discuss-worthy issue is why a realistic analysis of the original names of villages and quarters, used by the people even after the changes of the names in Republic era, is not been made in works on the region’s culture and history, including studies in Turkish. Limiting myself to cities as Ordu, Giresun, Trabzon, Rize and Artvin, I worked on original words, idioms and toponyms used by Turkish dialect speakers, independent from their native language. I made comparisons with vernaculars from surrounding cities including Samsun, Erzurum and Gümüşhane, Anatolia, and from some surrounding countries. I hope that the comparison of the original toponyms with equivalents from Anatolia, Greece/Hellas, Armenia, Georgia, Azerbaijan and other Turkish states could be useful for those interested in regional history, and influential for researchers."While some village names in regions do match with the villages names in Crete and Epirus, no equivalents are found in Anatolia and Northern Hellas. Some village names akin to those in Northern Abkhazia, the motherland of Laz, show remnants of Pelasgi and Thracians, the population of Anatolia and Hellas, prior to the Indo-Europeans. This requires a re-examination not only of Anatolian and regional history, but also of the history of a wider area, ranging from the Caucasus to the Balkans.Genieve Blackwell has become the third woman Anglican bishop in Australia and the 31st in the world. On Saturday, Blackwell was consecrated in St Saviour's Cathedral, Goulburn in the state of New South Wales (NSW), Australia as the Regional Bishop of Wagga Wagga. She was first ordained nineteen years ago.Blackwell is quoted as saying "It is a great thing that the gifts of women are being recognised and confirmed”.The appointment is controversial because the Anglican Archbishop of Sydney and Metropolitan of the Province of NSW, Peter Jensen, whose role it is to lead the service, opposes the ordination of female bishops. Jensen asked the Bishop of Newcastle to represent him at the service. The Diocese of Sydney does not agree with most of the rest of the country’s dioceses, so there were no Sydney bishops present among the 18 who consecrated Blackwell.The designer of the current 50-star United States flag, Robert G. Heft, has put his original creation up for sale on the popular auction website eBay.Heft originally made the flag for a school project in 1958, in which he received a "B minus" as his grade.  When he submitted the design for national consideration in 1959, he beat out over 100,000 other applicants.  His design was adopted as the new flag in 1960 and his grade was promptly changed to an "A".The flag has been flown over all state capitol buildings and over 80 United States embassies.  Sixty-three year-old Heft explained that medical bills, as well as tuition costs for his relatives, are becoming an economic burden.The opening bid on the flag starts at $250,000 USD, and the auction lasts until September 28th.Heft has also designed a 51-star US flag, which is currently in possession of Representative Clarence Miller, a Republican from Ohio.The first play written by former Czech president Václav Havel after his presidential retirement saw a great success at its first showing outside of the Czech Republic. Leaving was staged by the London Orange Tree Theatre starting on September 20.The audience in the sold-out theatre reacted spontaneously to the play’s text and to Havel’s own notes. The playwright commented his play and characters' acts through his pre-recorded words. He was not present at the premiere himself, his visit is expected on Friday, September 26.Geoffrey Bevers played the main role of chancellor who is suffering when leaving politics. The play was translated to English by Canadian writer Paul Wilson and directed by Sam Walters, the artistic leader of the Orange Tree.Wilson knows Czech society and language because he stayed in Prague in the 1970s (he was also member of a famous underground musical group The Plastic People of the Universe). In 1977, he was forced to leave former Czechoslovakia after The Plastic People were disbanded. Wilson has rich experiences from translating Havel’s texts into English; he has translated two more Havel plays. He thinks Leaving can be the work that can be best accepted outside Czech Republic because of its dateless topic.Director Sam Walters named the play "funny and sad, about big things, about politics, but also about personal fortunes." His company will perform Leaving till the middle of December and it will add other Havel plays Mountain Hotel, Audience, Private View and Protest.Havel's Leaving was first staged in Czech language in Prague May 22, 2008. Havel tried to have the play in the National Theatre, but the premiere took place in the Archa Theatre at the end. The expected participation of Havel's wife Dagmar Havlová was also cancelled.On Sunday, US television station CBS aired "The Vulcan Hello", the premiere episode of Star Trek: Discovery. The episode is slated to be the only one of the series broadcast on conventional television, with future installments exclusive to streaming platform CBS All Access. Discovery continues the long-running Star Trek franchise with the first series in the franchise to feature a black female lead.The airing follows several months of development and delays, as the series was retooled by veteran television producers including Bryan Fuller and Akiva Goldsman. Initially announced in 2015 to celebrate Star Trek's 50th anniversary the following year, the series has been plagued by setbacks, including departure of Bryan Fuller as showrunner in late 2016, collectively pushing its release date to move from January to September of this year.Only Canadian station Space is to air the series on traditional television. In all other non-US countries, Netflix has the rights.The series is the newest installment of the Star Trek media franchise. Discovery is a prequel program set before the 1960s original series, set to explore the relationship between the Earth-based Federation made up of several benign alien species who explore the universe to find new life, and the war-like Klingons who have been villains of the various films and television installments. Veteran US television actress Sonequa Martin-Green stars as Michael Burnham, first officer of starship USS Shenzou.The series has earned praise and controversy for its decision to cast the lead as a black woman. Creators say this inclusivity is consistent with the franchise's history, which has featured black male and white female leads. All casts have been multi-racial, starting with the original series, which included the black female character Uhura portrayed by Nichelle Nichols.Discovery also marks a key part of CBS's strategy for streaming its streaming video service All Access. Launched in 2014, the platform has a library of several thousand episodes from the network's past programming as well as debuting two spin-off series: Big Brother: Over the Top, from the reality television franchise Big Brother, and the legal procedural The Good Fight, from The Good Wife. The CBS Corporation is using this drama as an incentive for signing up to their service, which competes with industry giants Amazon Prime, Netflix, and Hulu. Hulu is a joint venture including many of the broadcast networks in the United States but CBS only began sharing selected programming on this platform earlier this year. CBS claimed the debut resulted in their biggest surge in membership, without offering hard numbers.On Saturday night, former United States presidents Barack Obama, Bill Clinton, Jimmy Carter and father and son George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush attended a concert at the Reed Arena in Texas to raise funds for hurricane relief.  This came after a week of comments from Obama and the younger Bush that many in the press have read as critical of the sitting president, Donald Trump.The event, called "Deep from the Heart: The One America Appeal", part of the One America Appeal charity effort, featured country music and gospel performers such as Lyle Lovett and Yolanda Adams, and an appearance by singer Lady Gaga.  The funds raised are meant to aid victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, which struck U.S. soil in Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.Former President Carter told the audience that Habitat for Humanity, a charity with which he works closely, has pledged to build 6000 homes in the affected areas.The current U.S. President, Donald Trump appeared virtually at the concert: "Now, as we begin to rebuild, some of America’s finest public servants are spearheading the One America Appeal. Through this effort, all five living former presidents are playing a tremendous role in helping our fellow citizens recover," he said via video.Former presidents Obama and the younger Bush made, in the previous week, comments that journalists interpreted as critical of the sitting president.  Though neither former president mentioned Trump by name, the younger Bush claimed "We've seen nationalism distorted into nativism, forgotten the dynamism that immigration has always brought to America," in a speech in New York. "We see a fading confidence in the value of free markets and international trade, forgetting that conflict, instability and poverty follow in the wake of protectionism. We've seen the return of isolationist sentiments, forgetting that American security is directly threatened by the chaos and despair of distant places." "Bigotry or white supremacy in any form is blasphemy against the American creed," he said Thursday. Slowing immigration, especially immigration of Muslims, and building a wall between the U.S. and Mexico were among Trump's campaign promises.As part of a get-out-the-vote effort for the Virginia and New Jersey gubernatorial races, Obama gave a speech saying "Some of the politics we see now, we thought we put that to bed. That has folks looking 50 years back. It's the 21st century, not the 19th century. Come on!" He also refuted President Trump's recent claim that he, Obama, had not visited soldiers wounded in combat.By later Sunday representatives of the appeal said it had raised well over US$30 million from over 80,000 separate donors.The Reed Arena is part of Texas A&M University, which is also home to former President George H.W. Bush's presidential library.The flag-lowering ceremony at the Wagah crossing between India and Pakistan, known for the aggressive and hostile manner in which it is carried out, has become more peaceful; at least on the Indian side so far.To cries of Pakistan Zindabad (Long live Pakistan) and Jai Hind (Long live India) from the audience the two Border guards detachments at the Wagah gate have entertained visitors each evening. With warrior-like stamping and gesturing, they perform the ritual of “beating the retreat” (the lowering the colours) on their respective sides of the Border and closing the gates for the night. Until now, the ceremony has been performed symmetrically by the two detachments, but the aggression has been ameliorated by (very cursory) handshakes by the two duty officers.India has announced that on the Indian side, at least, the tone will be much less aggressive in future. It has yet to be seen if Pakistan will follow suit.Pop band Fleetwood Mac has cancelled its upcoming tour of Australia and New Zealand following diagnosis of their bassist John McVie with cancer.The tour was expected to begin on November 10 at the Sydney Entertainment Centre and continue through the Hunter Valley, Geelong, Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane and Perth over the following two weeks.The band's spokeswoman Liz Rosenberg did not specify what type of cancer Mc Vie is receiving treatment for, nor did she comment on the extent of the disease. A statement on the band's website apologized to fans for the cancellation of the tour and explained that Mc Vie has been scheduled to receive treatment for during the scheduled dates."We are sorry to not be able to play these Australian and New Zealand dates," the statement read on their official Facebook page. "We hope our Australian and New Zealand fans as well as Fleetwood Mac fans everywhere will join us in wishing John and his family all the best."Fleetwood Mac had just finished touring Europe. The band is scheduled to perform in Las Vegas on December 30.Todd Herzog, a flight attendant from Pleasant Grove, Utah, has won the US$1,000,000 grand prize on the CBS American reality television series Survivor: China. Herzog, 22, defeated New York City waitress Courtney Yates and former Miss Montana USA Amanda Kimmel in the final vote.Herzog was voted 'Sole Survivor' by four of the seven jury members, while Yates received two votes and Kimmel received one. He was described as being the smartest and most strategic of the final three contestants. When making his opening statement to the jury, he said, "The main thing I can ask tonight is that you are able to see the difference between my strategic game and the relations that I actually built with you because they were all real."Herzog, who was only 14 years old when the first season of Survivor premiered, was once the founder of his school's Survivor club and was voted by his graduating class as "Most likely to appear on Survivor."The finale aired on December 16, 2007.American preservationists breathed a sigh of relief in August as the Farnsworth House, a Ludwig Mies van der Rohe designed house widely considered a masterpiece of modern architecture, was spared by flooding along the Fox River in Plano.Storms deluged much of the Midwest, causing rivers throughout the region to overflow their banks. At the Fox River in Plano flood waters spilled over four acres of the 58-acre Farnsworth House site. Waters continued to rise through August 24, until they were just 18 inches from the front door.According to the reporting of the Chicago Tribune preservationists developed a disaster management plan on the spot. Staff used boats to access the house and once inside raised the vulnerable furnishings to higher levels atop crates.Flooding along the Fox River in 1996 caused a large plate glass window in the steel and glass home to break, resulting in $250,000 damage and preservationists feared a repeat of that incident."We really lucked out and can look at this as a drill," Barbara Campagna, architect for National National Trust for Historic Preservation, told Preservation Online.The Farnsworth House was completed in 1951 and designed by internationally famous architect Ludwig Mies van der Rohe for Chicago doctor Edith Farnsworth. The house is a National Historic Landmark and a nationally significant example of modern architecture. As one of the most famous examples of such architecture, the Farnsworth House was unprecedented at the time of its completion.ORLANDO, Florida — Alien Encounter and The Living Seas at the Walt Disney World Resort are to open today with a makeover.The Alien Encounter attraction at Tomorrowland in the Magic Kingdom has been revised to include Experiment 626 from the movie Lilo & Stitch. Now called Stitch's Great Escape!, the dog-like blue creature will lash out of its tube and terrorise the audience. The Galactic Federation's Grand Councilwoman, Captain Gantu and Agent Pleakley appear in this show, essentially a prequel to the movie.At the Living Seas, Crush the sea turtle from the Disney/Pixar movie Finding Nemo will host a new exhibit called Turtle Talk, joining smaller Nemo exhibits, a mainstay at the attraction for several months. Vegetarian shark Bruce will soon become part of a shark education exhibit.According to publicity, the Turtle Talk show will run every 15 minutes, from 10:00 am to 7:00 pm. A sign language interpreted performance will run on Fridays at 10:30 am.Disney is holding the Stitch's Great Escape! Sweepstakes, with prizes including a five-day, four night trip for four to Walt Disney World Resort.Sealed Air Corporation, a packaging company based in Elmwood Park, New Jersey has agreed to settle legal action over the Station nightclub fire on Rhode Island in February 2003. The disaster killed 100 people with more than twice as many injured and this settlement is one of a series over the blaze.The fire was triggered by pyrotechnics in use by hard rock band Great White who were performing at the West Warwick venue at the time. They ignited flammable soundproofing foam on the walls.The latest settlement brings the total amount of settlements to $148.815 million, although all of these settlements are still tentative and subject to approval by families and a judge. Other companies that have already settled include Clear Channel Broadcasting, whose rock radio station was the show's promoter, Anheuser-Busch Inc., The Home Depot Inc., a pyrotechnics manufacturer and several other foam companies.Others still defending in the case, which names dozens of groups and individuals, include Rhode Island state, the fire inspector that did not enforce regulations at the club, and American Foam Corporation, who sold more foam to the Derderian brothers. The Derderians bought the club in 2000, whereas the foam allegedly manufactured by Sealed Air was installed in 1996. Sealed Air deny any wrongdoing, saying it was never proven that they indeed manufactured the foam and that the foam was being misused as soundproofing in any event.Regardless of the origin of the foam, it was argued that it burned too easily and produced toxic fumes when it did.The criminal case around the fire was resolved in 2006, with the Derderians and Great White tour manager Daniel Biechele - who ignited the pyrotechnics - charged with involuntary manslaughter. The Derderians pleaded no contest and Biechele pleaded guilty.Biechele was released on parole and Michael Derderian is due for parole next year. His brother was sentenced only to probation and community service.Sealed Air's insurance will pay the settlement.Folk musician Tracy Grammer, formerly of the duo Dave Carter and Tracy Grammer, has posted to Wikipedia to correct misrepresentations and misconceptions about her time with Dave Carter, who died of a heart attack in July of 2002. Grammer addressed the persistent rumors about whether she and Carter were involved in a romantic relationship, confirming that they entered into one in 1997, a year after they met, and had lived together from 1999 to 2002, although their relationship had been "in transition" at the time of Carter's death as he began pursuing a gender change in 2002.  Prior to her comments on Wikipedia, the only public comment on the matter had been the repeated assertion that Carter and Grammer were "partners in all things" due to their desire to "keep the focus on their music."Grammer also explained why she did not own the rights to Carter's songwriting catalogue, stating that the rights passed to Carter's ex-wife due to a will dating from before Carter and Grammer began their partnership. Grammer's offer to purchase the catalogue was rejected, and after "considerable acrimony," the catalogue was purchased by Carter's sister, Elise Fischer, who made arrangements with Grammer to administer the catalogue.An album, Seven is the Number, containing Dave Carter's final recordings with Tracy Grammer will be released in October.Hungarian food critic Egon Ronay, who was associated to British eateries, died on Saturday morning. He was known for publishing guidebooks, popularizing the concept of restaurant reviews.Ronay was born in Budapest, Hungary in 1915, but he left the country due to World War II. He departed and has lived in London since October 10, 1946. Ronay was able to work in many hotels and restaurants, such as Princess Restaurant in Piccadilly.He was also a contributor to the Daily Telegraph and editor for its food column. Ronay published the book Egon Ronay's Guide to British eateries in 1957.Ronay had fallen sick earlier and died on Saturday, reported friend Nick Ross.Danish national goalkeeper Thomas Sørensen is ready to leave Aston Villa after four years with the club. Sørensen rules out extending his current contract with the club, saying: "It would be the strangest thing I have ever experienced. If Martin O'Neill called me and offered me a contract, I would not sign it. It is over." Currently, Thomas Sørensen is home in Denmark for friendlies against the Netherlands and Poland next week. Speaking to Danish Ritzau, Sørensen said: "We are in talks with several clubs. So that's positive. I am not nervous about finding a suitable club before the next season." Sørensen declined to mention any specific club names.This will mark the end of four years at Aston Villa, while Thomas Sørensen might not have wanted the last year, as he did not play a single match this season.Even though Sørensen, through his agent, said he would decline an offer from Ipswich Town F.C.,Those Were The Days reports that the Championship League club may seek to recruit Sørensen. Sources predict that he will wind up with a Premier League team or return to Denmark to play for F.C. København.Anime North is “by the fans, for the fans”, event chair Irwin Tan told Wikinews in an interview at the event, Saturday. Started by a group of university anime clubs in 1997, it has grown to become one of the largest conventions of its kind in North America, spanning three days, five venues, and tens of thousands of fans.Along with the dealer's hall, industry tables, and artist booths typical of conventions, Anime North's  convention floor included a formal gallery space, a charity auction in support of Toronto's Sick Kids Hospital, an aerial performer, gaming tables, archery tag, dance events, and outdoor concerts. At one of the hotels surrounding the main venue, an entire 5000 volume manga library was available, for attendees looking to take a quiet pause. Full programming tracks about ball-jointed dolls — Doll North — and homoerotic-themed anime and manga — Yaoi/Yuri North — were also given entire hotels to themselves, allowing them to offer extensive programming.As with many fan conventions, many fans attended in cosplay of their favourite characters. Some outfits included massive props, like wings, weapons, or even an additional character riding on their back. A variety of anime and manga worlds were represented, as well as video games like Undertale, Western comic books, Disney characters, even "Smug Wendy", and the Ferocious Beast from Maggie and the Ferocious Beast. The event offered panels to help costume creators and wearers develop in their hobby, such as "Thermoplastics for Cosplay", looking at the pliable polymers used to create things like character armour, and "Social Media for Cosplayers".The cosplay subculture of animegao kigurumi, for which masks of mainly human characters are worn, was well-represented. Ride the Pig Studios, a Nevada-based studio, was set up in the industry section with a photo booth for attendees to get a photo with practitioners of the craft, and two sessions, including one hosted by Kazunori Uhyo Sugiura, a university professor attending from Japan.Anime North was deemed the fourth largest convention in North American with a primary theme of anime, in 2016, by AnimeCons.com.Cosplay coverage continues after the interview.Former American Idol finalist Jessica Sierra, 22, has had her invitation to perform at an upcoming concert for United States troops retracted, following her recent arrest for disorderly conduct while intoxicated.Sierra is likely to remain in jail at the Hillsborough County jail in her native Tampa until her next hearing on December 20, where she is being held without bail, which would prevent her attending the Washington event on Friday even if she still had permission to perform.Sierra has been in jail since the start of the month after an altercation with police officers outside a Tampa nightclub, which she had been ejected from. She is charged with disorderly intoxication and resisting arrest."While we appreciate Ms. Sierra's past efforts to support US troops, including performing for them in Iraq on Independence Day, it is quite obvious that Ms. Sierra needs to devote a great deal of time to putting her life back together. That effort must take place in private and not in the limelight of the public eye or on the stage." said a statement by retired Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Buzz Patterson concerning the event.Patterson said Move America Forward, who is organizing the concert, had received comments from patrons who were concerned about her participation. John Fitzgibbons, attorney for Jessica, refused to comment.Jessica Sierra is pregnant, according to the Falkenburg Road Jail in Tampa, Florida, where she is imprisoned awaiting trial for charges of disorderly intoxication, violating parole and resisting arrest. Sierra became famous after once reaching the finals of American Idol.Reports have been made by the prison infirmary that Sierra has been moved to a pregnancy diet and is confirmed to be pregnant. The father is said to be an unidentified rap musician.Sierra had originally been due to go before a judge on the 20th, but her pregnancy has caused this to be postponed indefinitely.Sierra was arrested on December 2 outside a local bar, and is being held without bond. Police claim that after they arrived, she first assaulted an officer then attempted to bribe him by offering to perform a sex act on him. Only two weeks earlier she had pleaded no contest to charges of battery and possessing cocaine. If she is convicted of all the new charges, she could be imprisoned for up to 11 years, which would mean she would have the baby whilst still in prison.Sierra earlier pled not guilty to all charges.Once you get a chance to talk to West Palm Beach, Florida native Whitney Cunningham, who placed seventh on the eighth cycle of the popular reality TV series America's Next Top Model, you begin to understand what host Tyra Banks meant when she described her as the "full package." First of all, she is confident and headstrong, which is a must on these kinds of shows, almost as much as it is to take a beautiful modelesque picture. Second, she turns that confidence into drive. She has been receiving steady work as a model since leaving the show, and still believes that her goal of being the first woman to wear a size ten dress on the cover of Vogue is in reach. Third, and probably most important to television viewers, she obliterates the age-old model stereotype that to be pretty and photograph well, one must also be vapid and without a thought. A graduate of Dartmouth College, Cunningham also dreams of becoming a writer, and is working toward dual goals: a model who can express herself like no other model before her.Cunningham recently sat down with Wikinews reporter Mike Halterman in an impassioned interview, taking hours to field questions from the reporter as well as from fans of America's Next Top Model. Always in high spirits, Cunningham shows that she is a distinct personality who has carved her own niche in the Top Model history books. At the same time, she exhibits a joie de vivre that is oddly reminiscent of earlier Top Model fan favorite Toccara Jones, who showed America just how to be "big, black, beautiful and loving it." However, Cunningham is quick to remind everyone that she isn't big at all; she is simply a regular woman.This is the first in a series of interviews with America's Next Top Model contestants. Interviews will be published sporadically.Former Beatle Sir Paul McCartney received a hostile reception this week from some Quebec separatists as he prepares for his concert on the Plains of Abraham in Quebec City on Sunday.The controversy began when Quebec artist Luc Archambault released an open letter last week criticising the concert as a "British invasion". The letter was also signed by some other separatists including a few Parti Québécois politicians. The concert is located at the site of the 1759 Battle of the Plains of Abraham on which British and French troops battled. Quebec premier Jean Charest dismissed the letter, noting that Quebec superstar Celine Dion does not face criticism when she sings in various nations.When interviewed by Radio-Canada on Thursday, the musician suggested that the protestors "smoke the pipes of peace and to just put away your hatchets" and indicated his appearance was a matter of friendship and good will. McCartney's performance is among numerous scheduled events marking Quebec City's 400th anniversary this year. Celine Dion is scheduled to perform at the Plains of Abraham next month.British comedy producer Geoffrey Perkins died in a road accident on Friday. It is believed he collapsed and fell into the path of a oncoming flatbed lorry. The accident took place on Marylebone High Street in London. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "The 55-year old victim was given emergency First Aid at the scene, but was pronounced dead."As well as his work in producing he also wrote for several shows including Spitting Image, Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps, My Hero, My Family, Father Ted,The Catherine Tate Show and many others. For several years he worked with the BBC Radio Light Entertainment department. There he helped to produce shows such as The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. He is also credited with the creation of the game Mornington Crescent for the radio show I'm Sorry I Haven't A Clue. He later left BBC radio to work as a director for Hat Trick Productions, an independent television and radio production company. He left in 1995 to become the head of comedy for the BBC. He left the BBC after 6 years in 2001 to join another independent production company, Tiger Aspect.Jana Bennett, the director of vision for the BBC said that she was "shocked and deeply saddened" by the news. She also said that "Geoffrey Perkins was an outstanding creator of countless comedy hits on the BBC and elsewhere, and a very distinguished former BBC head of comedy. He embraced comedy talent to create unique programmes which will be enjoyed for a very long time to come. All of our thoughts are with Geoffrey's family at this very sad time."COLUMBUS, OHIO — Nathan Gale, 25, jumped onstage during a concert with the band Damageplan and started shooting a handgun at band members, and then into the crowd. He killed four people, including former Pantera guitarist Dimebag Darrell, real name Darrell Abbott, who seems to have been the main target. Two others were wounded. The gunman was killed by a police officer responding to the call.Damageplan was started by the brothers Vinnie Paul and Dimebag Darrell when their former band Pantera split up.Abbot's death is noted worldwide by guitarists, musicians, and lovers of metal.Rugby union commentator Bill McLaren died yesterday aged 86.  The British Broadcasting Corporation made the announcement that he had died at 1030 GMT in Hawick, in the Scottish Borders — his chosen home town.McLaren started rugby commentating on a BBC radio station in 1953 while he was a reporter with The Hawick Express, a newspaper. He later moved to television commentary in 1959. He was awarded an MBE, an OBE and a CBE and retired in 2002. People have now paid tribute to the man who became known as the "voice of rugby". In a video shown on BBC News Online, HRH The Princess Royal can be quoted as saying that "[e]ven if you didn't think that you understood anything about rugby, somehow Bill McLaren gave you the confidence to listen to what he was saying. And he was always the same. He was clear, he was interesting and always unbiased."Some of Bill McLaren's famous quotes, or what The Daily Telegraph render "McLaren-isms", include McLaren saying that "[h]e kicked that ball like it were three pounds o’ haggis", "[m]y goodness, that wee ball’s gone so high there’ll be snow on it when it comes down" and "[h]e’s like a demented ferret up a wee drainpipe".Gavin Hastings, who was the former rugby captain for Scotland, said that "[f]irst and foremost, Bill was a very proud and passionate Scot but such was his professionalism that you would never really have known that.  He always remained very unbiased in his commentary and I think that that was unquestionably one of his endearing qualities.  He was a wonderful commentator and he just brought the world of rugby into so many people's homes."  John Thorbun, who is the secretary for Hawick Rugby Club, stated: "We're devastated, obviously — we've got a room named after him at the rugby club.  It was very close to his heart, Hawick Rugby Club.  He's a huge loss to rugby worldwide."The Florida newspaper St. Petersburg Times published a series of investigative articles on Scientology on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, including exclusive interviews with former high-ranking executives within the organization. Four former Scientology executives stated that they witnessed the Church of Scientology's leader David Miscavige physically strike staff members numerous times. The former executives speaking out include Mike Rinder, who served as head of the organization's legal and public relations division the Office of Special Affairs, Mark Rathbun, former Inspector General of the organization's Religious Technology Center, Tom De Vocht, former manager of the organization's operations in Clearwater, Florida, and Amy Scobee, a former Scientology staff member in California who assisted in construction of Scientology's Celebrity Centres. Rathbun supervised the Church of Scientology's response to the Lisa McPherson case, after she died under Scientology care in 1995.Rinder said the impact was more one of humiliation than physical pain: "The issue wasn't the physical pain of it (being assaulted by Miscavige). The issue was the humiliation and the domination. ... It's the fact that the domination you're getting — hit in the face, kicked — and you can't do anything about it." Rathbun asserted Miscavige would assault executives during conferences. "Regularly David Miscavige would in the middle of a conference physically assault, punch, slap or grab by the neck a number of executives," said Rathbun. De Vocht said that Miscavige would "lose it" if he did not hear a satisfactory answer from his executives: "If it wasn't the answer he wanted to hear, he'd lose it. If it was contrary to how he thought, he'd lose it. If he found it to be smart aleck, or it was a better answer than he had, he would lose it." Scobee was critical of Miscavige's actions while calling himself a "religious leader". "You cannot call yourself a religious leader as you beat people, as you confine people, as you rip apart families. If I was trying to destroy Scientology, I would leave David Miscavige right where he is because he's doing a fantastic job of it," she said.In its preparation for the investigation, The St. Petersburg Times staff met with attorneys and representatives for the Church of Scientology for 25 hours. According to the paper Miscavige was sought out by reporters for an interview from May 13, but they were informed he would not be available prior to July. Miscavige e-mailed the paper on Saturday, complaining that he was not interviewed. "I am at a loss to comprehend how the St. Petersburg Times can publish a story about me and the religion I lead without accepting the offer to speak with me," wrote Miscavige.Church of Scientology representatives denied the statements made by their former executives, and claimed the individuals left the organization after being demoted. They claimed the former executives were motivated by feelings of revenge and only speaking to the press for financial gain. Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis acknowledged violence occurred within the ranks of Scientology management, but claimed that it was Rathbun and not Miscavige who carried out the assaults. In comments to the Associated Press, Davis referred to the statements made by former executives about Miscavige as "absolutely, unquestionably false". Scientology representative Lyman Spurlock stated "What they want to do is extort money from the church. ... and right now the St. Pete Times is their extortion vehicle... you're just their lackeys. They're using you."The St. Petersburg Times reported Monday on the attention received by the investigative articles in other media. The Associated Press carried the story, and it was included in over 177 television and news websites including MSNBC, the Los Angeles Times, The Guardian, and the Chicago Sun-Times, as well as blogs and media sites for The Huffington Post, Gawker, L.A. Weekly, and The Village Voice. By Monday the first article in the series had received over 3,600 "diggs" at the social news website Digg and generated over 420 comments at the site. A post at the "On Deadline" blog of USA Today called the investigation "a fascinating three-part series". "Juicy stuff from a mainstream newspaper coming out and hitting Scientology hard," said biologist and University of Minnesota, Morris associate professor PZ Myers in a post to his blog Pharyngula. "I'm sure there are meetings going on in Clearwater right now where they're plotting revenge," wrote Myers.Former World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Jeff Hardy has been arrested on five major drug charges. The former WWE Champion’s home was searched by police and they seized 262 Vicodin prescription pills, 180 Soma prescription pills, 555 milliliters of anabolic steroids, a residual amount of powder cocaine and other items of drug paraphernalia. The estimated street value of the drugs is $2,500. Hardy's charges are listed as "felony trafficking in opium, two counts of felony possession with intent to sell or deliver a Schedule III controlled substance, felony maintaining a dwelling to keep controlled substance, felony possession of cocaine and misdemeanour possession of drug paraphernalia."It is believed that Hardy is now back at his North Carolina home and his brother, fellow World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Matt Hardy, posting the $125,000 bail.The superstar released a statement on his Twitter page saying "A lot of exaggerations are out there today, don't believe everything you read 4 it is not true, I am at home and fine-thanks for your concern."Hardy only left the WWE two weeks ago when he lost a “Loser leaves WWE” match against CM Punk. During his tenure at WWE he was often surrounded by both controversy and personal issues. He was released in 2003 with him saying it was a “mutual decision” He returned in 2006 but was suspended twice for violations to the WWE wellness program. He also had a stint in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, where he was suspended and later released for missing shows. Hardy’s arrest comes less than a week after former WWE and WCW superstar Sean O'Haire was arrested on charges of misdemeanor battery and criminal trespass.Formula One was in disarray last night after eight members of the F1 Teams Association (FOTA) announced they are going to set up a rival championship to the current series next season.The reason for this drastic move is Max Mosley's plan to introduce a voluntary £40 million budget cap in order to make it easier for new teams to enter & existing teams to continue.The association refused to agree to this, worried it would result in two divisions. After a four hour meeting last night, Brawn GP, Ferrari, McLaren, Renault, Toyota, BMW Sauber, Red Bull Racing and Toro Rosso announced their decision.A FOTA statement read the following: "Since the formation of Fota last September the teams have worked together and sought to engage the FIA and commercial rights holder (Bernie Ecclestone), to develop and improve the sport.  Unprecedented worldwide financial turmoil has inevitably placed great challenges before the F1 community. Fota is proud that it has achieved the most substantial measures to reduce costs in the history of our sport. In particular, the manufacturer teams have provided assistance to the independent teams, a number of which would probably not be in the sport today without the Fota initiatives.  The Fota teams have further agreed upon a substantial voluntary cost reduction that provides a sustainable model for the future.  Following these efforts, all the teams have confirmed to the FIA and the commercial rights holder that they are willing to commit until the end of 2012. The FIA and the commercial rights holder have campaigned to divide Fota. The wishes of the majority of the teams are ignored. Furthermore, tens of millions of dollars have been withheld from many teams by the commercial rights holder, going back as far as 2006. Despite this, and the uncompromising environment, Fota has genuinely sought compromise. It has become clear, however, the teams cannot continue to compromise on the fundamental values of the sport and have declined to alter their original conditional entries to the 2010 world championship."Today marks the 40th anniversary of the first ever landing of humans on the Moon. Launched on July 16, 1969, Apollo 11 touched down on the lunar surface at 20:17 UTC on July 20.The historic anniversary was marked by the current United States President, Barack Obama, meeting the crew, Neil Armstrong and "Buzz" Aldrin, the first men on the satellite's surface, and Michael Collins, who remained in lunar orbit. Obama praised the men and commented on the global historical significance of their deeds. At the time of the initial landing Aldrin and Armstrong spoke to then-president Richard M. Nixon by radio shortly after landing.The culmination of the 1960s space race between the Soviet Union and the U.S. was not solely the work of the Americans. Among the statements surrounding the anniversary, Armstrong had written a message praising the Australian team at Honeysuckle Creek Tracking Station near Canberra. Without their involvement there would have been no black and white television pictures for the millions worldwide who watched man's first step onto the Moon. Armstrong stated he had been surprised when Mission control told him they had pictures, commenting about the camera, "in all that testing, I never saw a picture successfully transmitted. But the chaps assured us that it would, in fact, work. And it did."NASA's current plans to return to the Moon by 2020 have been derided by Buzz Aldrin. Today at a reunion of lunar astronauts he dismissed these proposals, "America to Mars is what ought to be, not America back to the moon". Plans for a lunar base to practice for a Mars trip also met with his scorn.The journey to the Moon was initiated by then-President John F. Kennedy in 1961. The last time an astronaut walked on the moon was in 1972. In 1989 then-President George H.W. Bush used the twentieth anniversary to announce plans to fly back to the Moon and then on to Mars, but these never materialized. Obama has set up a commission to provide advice on where to take the U.S. space program next.Today Sailors of HMCS York, Cadets of RCSCC 18 Vanguard, Navy League Cadets of NLCC Ark Royal and Air Cadets of 618 Queen City Squadron marched though Downtown Toronto with drums beating, colors flying, and rifles held proudly. All this was to mark the Battle of the Atlantic, which was a series of naval battles fought from 1939 to the end of the second world war. During the Battle, Canada lost about 2000 Sailors and 762 members of the Royal Canadian Air Force.The Parade started out at Nathan Phillips Square, it then marched a short ways to the Cenotaph at Old City hall, where a ceremony was held for the dead and wounded in the Battle of the Atlantic. The parade then began again with a snappy left turn and marched along Queen Street West. It then wheeled north along Yonge St. to the Naval Club on Hayden Avenue.  Seen in the photograph below is Lieutenant (Navy) Armstrong, the Executive Officer of RCSCC 18 Vanguard, in the background, are Vanguard cadets.There where approximately 130 sailors, sea and air cadets in attendance.Celia Franca, founder of the National Ballet of Canada and its training ground, the National Ballet School of Canada, died at age 85 Monday in Ottawa, Ontario.She is reported to have died in an Ottawa Hospital and her cause of death is not known. She went to the hospital last week and stayed there until she had died."Celia was more than the National Ballet's founder. She was its presiding spirit, its most stalwart supporter and the embodiment of its ideals and values," said Karen Kain, the National Ballet of Canada's current artistic director. "She inspired generations of dancers by her example and her devotion to the art of ballet. And most importantly, she made us believe in ourselves and that no goal was ever out of reach."Franca, born 1921 in London, England, came to Canada in 1951 to found the National Ballet of Canada. Franca choreographed ballets in Canada such as the famous "Cinderella" and "The Nutcracker." She was artistic director of the National Ballet of Canada for 24 years. In 1967, Franca was named an officer of the Order of Canada, then named a Companion of the order in 1985.Swedish satellite broadcaster, Viasat, has announced that they are about to launch four new channels on their digital platforms in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia this autumn. The channels are Toon Disney, Cartoon Network, TCM and E!.The launch of Toon Disney was announced earlier in 2005. Until August 1, Viasat broadcast the Disney Channel exlusively on satellite. With the launch of Toon Disney, their competitor Canal Digital is also able to broadcast the Disney Channels.Cartoon Network and TCM are already available with most of Viasat's comptetitors, but from September 23, Viasat will also broadcast the Turner-owned channels.The company that broadcast E! in the Nordic countries before decided to rename their channel and get a new franchise. However, E! will re-arrive in the Nordic and Baltic countries on August 1.Mega Millions officials have stated that there are four winners in Friday's US$330,000,000 lottery drawing in the United States. The tickets matched the drawn number balls of 8, 18, 22, 40, 44 with the Mega Ball of 11. The lucky winners bought their tickets in four different states. The only winning ticket purchase location to be identified so far was Walther Liquors in Nottingham, Maryland located in Baltimore County and the winner from that purchase has yet to come forward. Lottery officials said the winner bought five tickets, for $1 each, just after 5:00 p.m. Friday, all as a 'quick pick' ticket, which is when the computer randomly selects the numbers. The other winners bought their tickets in Virginia, Texas and New Jersey, though the specific retailers had not been revealed.But the jackpot winners are not the only lucky ones. 36 other individuals had winning tickets that matched all five numbers, without matching the Mega Ball. Those numbers are good for a prize of $250,000. The luck kept spreading though, as 215 others had four winning numbers while also matching the Mega Ball. Those ticket holders will receive a prize of $10,000.The odds of at least one person winning the jackpot were one in 175,711,536. It was the third largest lottery jackpot in the world."You have a better chance of being hit by lightning at the same place and time every day for a week," said Buddy Roogow, the director of the Maryland Lottery division of Mega Millions.Three people in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and one person in Quebec won last week's Lotto 649. They will share the second-largest lottery jackpot in Canadian history as the lucky winners of Saturday's $43.2-million Lotto 649 draw. They will each take home $10.8 million."Two of the tickets were purchased in the GTA, and one in southwestern Ontario, despite the free ticket giveaway by the British Columbia lottery corporation to promote the contest", the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation said.The six regular winning numbers for the Saturday, August 12, 2006 Lotto649 draw were: 3 - 10 - 21 - 23 - 33 - 44 (Bonus number 43).Eight Dollarama employees in downtown Toronto also held one of the winning tickets, worth more than $10.8 million. They will take home about $1.35 million each. They range in ages from 22 to 53.The biggest Lotto win was $54 million in a Lotto 649 draw in October 2005. It was won by 17 oil company workers in Camrose, Alberta. Each took home a cheque for $3 million.This year, four breeds of dogs are competing for the first time in the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, at Madison Square Garden in New York City, United States.The new breeds making their Westminister debuts this year, are the Plott, a hunting hound originally bred by two German immigrant brothers in North Carolina; the Tibetan Mastiff, once described by Marco Polo as "tall as a donkey with a voice as powerful as that of a lion."; the Beauceron, a herding dog originally bred to herd flocks of sheep in France, later used to sniff out landmines and send messages during the World Wars; and the Swedish Vallhund, a breed dating back to the time of the Vikings, used on farms to catch vermin, herd cattle, and as a guard dog, noted for its double coat and harness markings. This brings the number of unique breeds competing in the famous dog show to 169. The Plott, the Beauceron, and the Vallhund were shown on Monday. The Tibetan Mastiff will be shown tonight as part of the Working Group.Four male members of the paparazzi were arrested and charged on Wednesday with reckless driving in Mission Hills, California after following Britney Spears back to her mansion. At least four others were also stopped by police, but were not arrested.According to reports, police witnessed the entire incident saying that a fleet of paparazzi were following Spears at a high rate of speed around 11:20 p.m. PST (UTC-8). They also say they followed her too closely and made unsafe lane changes in order to follow her. Police also say that at least one of cars following Spears, who was driving her car, tried to run her off the road, but she was not able to identify the vehicle or the occupants.Spears was also stopped by police. They are reported to have verified her identity, and released her. TMZ.com reports that police were checking to see if her license was valid, and was surprised that it was. Spears was not charged with anything and despite the paparazzis' recklessness, Spears did not want the men arrested."Britney Spears was part of the group, but was not driving recklessly," said spokeswoman for the Los Angeles Police Department, Sara Faden.Editorial journalist Roger Friedman has lost his job at Fox News following a dispute with the company. Friedman admitted in a movie review late last week to having wached a bootlegged online video stream version of a partially-completed copy of the upcoming film X-Men Origins: Wolverine, a Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation production. Friedman had worked for several years as a reviewer and media journalist for Fox News. While a press release from Fox says that the company and Friedman had "mutually agreed to part ways immediately", news articles report that he was fired.Friedman's status had been ambiguous after an April 5 statement from Fox that Friedman had been fired was met by a response from the journalist that no action had been taken against him.Friedman began his April 2 column, now removed from the Fox website, with: "Yes, I've seen 'X Men Origins: Wolverine.' It wasn't at a screening, either. I found a work in progress print of it, 95 percent completed, on the internet last night. Let's hope by now it's gone." Friedman went on to praise the ease and convenience of downloading, noting that the current box office top 10 were all available. "It's so much easier than going out in the rain!", he wrote.In an exclusive statement to Wikinews, Pirate Party International's spokesperson Andrew Norton said: "Depending on the method he used to obtain the film, he may not have infringed copyright at all, just exercised legal fair use exceptions. When you add in the very positive review he gave the film, it makes you wonder why Fox acted as they did. The reason is painfully obvious, to 'send a message'. Alas the only message they send is that they don't care about facts, and let no-one stand in the way of their paranoid witch-hunt".Website Ain't It Cool News editor "Beaks", meanwhile, responded to news of Fox's initial press release concerning Friedman's review on April 3 with "Friedman has admitted to breaking the law. If 20th Century Fox—and the FBI—are serious about nailing the perpetrator(s) of this leak, then Friedman must be fired immediately for downloading and reviewing stolen material. There's no wiggle room here."The positivity of Friedman's review had led some commentators, Ain't It Cool News among them, to speculate that the leak of the work print of the film had been a deliberate act by 20th Century Fox.The full-length workprint of the film, lacking some special effects and ten minutes of footage shot after principal photography, was leaked on March 31, 2009. While 20th Century Fox adds digital forensic markings to its workprints to trace leaked versions, so far the company has not identified any party as responsible for the leak.X Men Origins: Wolverine, a prequel to the X-Men franchise of films, premieres in theaters in the United Kingdom on April 29, Australia and New Zealand on April 30, and the United States and Canada on May 1, 2009.The FOX Morning News broadcast from Harvard Square this morning in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Anchors Liz Carrigan and Gene Lavanchy profiled a restaurant and a musician who will take part in the 22nd annual Mayfair, which starts on Sunday, May 1. The restaurant, Grafton Street, is on Massachusetts Avenue.The Mayfair is a festival that takes place in Harvard Square on an annual basis. On Sunday, the Square will be closed from noon until 6 pm to vehicular traffic; according to the Mayfair website, "200 artists and merchants" will participate in the event this year.The musician, Halsey Burgund, works for a computer security firm, but plays the drums and piano in his spare time. This morning, he had set up his portable recording booth to demonstrate the means by which he records passersby for voice samples in his music. Burgund will have his booth set up on Sunday and hopes to record festival visitors. Eventually, Burgund hopes to release his music under a Creative Commons license. Burgund noted that he previously tried recording people on the street with just a microphone, but he found that there was too much ambient noise for the quality of recording he desired.20th Century Fox will produce at least 13 new episodes of the animated series Futurama, scheduled to air on Comedy Central in 2008.  Futurama, an animation from The Simpsons creator Matt Groening, was canceled by FOX in 2003.Comedy Central has recently acquired the rights to the back catalogue of 72 Futurama episodes and any eventual new episodes."We are thrilled that Matt Groening and 20th Century Fox Television have decided to produce new episodes of 'Futurama' and that Comedy Central will be the first to air them," announces Comedy Central  senior vice president for programming David Bernath.Voice actors Billy West (Fry, Professor Farnsworth), Katey Sagal (Leela) and John DiMaggio (Bender) are all contracted to return.Entertainment industry rising star Gail Berman was named president of the Viacom-owned Paramount Pictures film and television studios Wednesday. She is scheduled to start in May. Currently Berman heads up the programming division of the U.S. Fox network.Berman is credited for the major turn-around in the fortunes of the Fox network. Their ratings were at the bottom of the heap of the four major U.S. broadcast networks when she took over programming in 2000. According to the latest Nielsen ratings, Fox is the No. 1 U.S. network in primetime programming, thanks to such hits as American Idol, real-time suspense drama, 24, and hit teen soap opera, The O.C..In moving from television to the movies, Berman acknowledged to reporters that she faces a challenging learning curve. She replaces outgoing Paramount president, Donald DeLine.In the early Olympic games, athletes used to run a mile and then recite a poem.  The first poet-in-residence of an English football team, Ian McMillan, remarked that football chants are like huge tribal poems.  Generally, though, sport and poetry have never seemed natural companions in human enterprise.  Until the New York Mets baseball team suffered in 2007 arguably the worst collapse in Major League Baseball history.  To describe the anguish fans felt, The New York Times turned to a poet, Frank Messina.  "Nothing was really representing the fan's point of view," Messina told Wikinews reporter David Shankbone in an interview.  "There's a lot of hurting people out there who can't express what happened."And to those who read the Times last Saturday, Messina wants you to know his father never apologized for raising him as a Mets fans.  "I never asked for his apology, and he never apologized, nor did he owe us one.  I was misquoted in the New York Times."  Messina's parents taught him about opposite ends of the spectrum of life.  "My mother was supportive even when I made mistakes.  She taught me to never give up no matter what vocation you choose in your life."  Whereas Messina's mother taught him to never give up, his father taught him how to die with grace.  He passed away from cancer in 2005.  "I got to see a man who accepted his fate. He was like the Captain of the Titanic. My mother was also calm. I was the one freaking out inside. I saw someone who had acknowledged his own demise, accepted it, and died at home. He was a tough old guy. It takes a lot to accept that; it takes a very strong person.  Some of the special moments toward the end was sitting with him and watching baseball games."It is baseball that has garnered Messina attention now.  He has performed in 32 countries and 40 states, and in 1993 he founded the band Spoken Motion, a spoken word band.  What is striking about Messina is that his work has branched two worlds that often don't interact: downtown coffeehouse denizens of poetry and the denizens of Shea Stadium.  It is Frank Messina who has personalities as diverse as Joe Benigno, the archetype of the New York sportscaster at WFAN, reflecting on love and poetry. "No one would question a poet writing about love for a woman," said Benigno, "but when you’re a fan of a team, the emotional attachment is even stronger...."   Benigno sounded similar to avant-garde writer and musician David Amram, who said Messina's poems paint "the stark beauty of the streets, the pain of 9/11, the joy of everyday life, the mysteries of love all fill the pages of this book. It's a feast of images and sounds that stay with you."  I spoke with the person Bowery Poetry Club founder Bob Holman called the "Rock n' Roll Poet Laureate" recently in Washington Square Park:DS:  You have received a good deal of attention recently.FM:Even though I'm not Michael Jackson or somebody, when people come up to me and introduce themselves and say, 'Hey Frank, my name is John,' I say, 'Hey John, my name is Frank' and they laugh.  It's a funny phenomenon.DS:  What goes through your head when that happens?FM:  I understand it.  I've gone to readings and concerts.  I look at it as human interaction.  Over the years I have performed in 32 countries and 40 states.  I've been doing this professionally since I was in my twenties, and before that since I was sixteen doing little tidbit poetry readings in coffeehouses.  The band I started in 1993, Spoken Motion, received a lot of recognition as a spoken word band born out of the New York spoken word scene.  I worked with some great musicians and performed around the world.  I remember signing my first autograph to a kid when I was 25 years old.  As time went on, I came out with books and CDs, and I became used to that kind of thing.  To me, the ultimate feeling of success as an artist, is to move somebody enough where they thank you.  When someone comes up and says, 'Frank, thank you, your work is great."DS:  You have a long career in poetry, but as of late the attention you have garnered is for the Mets-inspired work.  How do you feel about having a lot of your work overshadowed by the Mets work?FM:It's ironic.  Some of the greatest poetry has been born out of failure and the depths of adversity in the human experience.  Walt Whitman, the first great American poet, wrote about the Civil War.  He went looking for his brother, George Whitman, after he a telegram telling him his brother was injured in the South.  When he started out his poems were about beating drums, and blow, bugle, blow.  Real patriotic.  Then he started to see the real horrors of war. He was able to tap into the human condition and the situation at that time.   Eventually when he found his brother he had resolution.I experienced that kind of adversity during 9/11 being a civilian volunteer.  I loaded ferry boats in Jersey City across the river to deliver goods to Ground Zero.  I turned to Whitman to find some understanding of what is happening in the world right now.  When I wrote my 9/11-related poems, that was true adversity.  I realize baseball is just a game.DS:  Can you recite a stanza that expresses how you feel right now?FM:  This was a piece that the Times only quoted one stanza, but it's about preparation for a battle, and being prepared to either rise to the occasion, or go down:Do you know what it's liketo be chased by the Ghost of Failurewhile staring through Victory's door?Of course you do, you're a Mets fancaught in a do-or-die momentin late September at SheaAs one that's battled hardthrough many a broken dreamLet me say, "in order to rise to the occasionyou must be willingto go down with the ship",Have no fear, no hesitation,for Winning shall be it's reward!Don't let them get in your head!you've kept it up this longYou're a Mets fan in late Septemberand you'll fight til the glorious endCheer the team today;(your boys in orange and blue)Let them hear you shoutas they fight for what's mightily due(copyright Frank Messina; reprinted with permission)DS:  Sports fans aren't known as patrons of poetry.  Have you had interaction with 'new readers' through your Mets work?FM:  This one person who I never met took a picture of me and sent it to me in an e-mail.  The e-mail said, 'Frank, I have never bothered you during the game, but I just wanted to say thank you for your work and thank you for making some sense of the successes and failures and I wish you much success with your work.'Last year in my section at the stadium I had a banner that read We Know'.  That's all it said.  Then earlier this year these shirts started to come out that said, "Poet says We Know".  It was amazing.  We didn't use the banner this year, though, because we didn't know.  The team wasn't so far ahead that we knew.  Last year we just knew we were going to the playoffs; we knew we were going post-season.  This year we weren't sure.  We were walking on eggshells.There was a woman, a season ticket holder and a die hard fan.  She was staggered by the loss last year to the Cardinals.  Last year she came up to me during one of the games late in the season; she was so happy we were going to the post season.  By that point we had clinched it.  She handed me a shirt she bought at the stadium and she gave me a big hug.  With tears in her eyes she said, "Thank you, Mets Poet, thank you."  It's cool...it's like another family.DS:  Moments like that must make you realize you have touched people who aren't normally touched by poetry.FM:  It's opened up a new fan base, so to speak.  For the last year SNY has broadcast footage of me with my poems, so quite a few fans known about the 'Mets Poet'.  I have never called myself that, by the way.  The back of my jersey says 'The Poet' because growing up that was my nickname.  My brother was a runner and they used to call him The Birdman--Birdie--and they called me The Poet.  It was a natural thing, but I never coined myself as 'The Mets Poet.'DS:  Jack Nicholson once said, "The fuel for the sports fan is the ability to have private theories."  What are some of your private theories?FM:  The fan is always right.  No matter if he is wrong, he is right.  The fan always has an opinion.  That's why we have talk radio and people call Joe Benigno and Steve Somers and Mike and the Mad Dog all day long.  That's why we have 24/7 sports-related talk. If you were to come from another planet with only three hours on Earth to find out what human beings are like, to discover how dynamic life is as a human being, you would take them to a baseball game.  A season is like a life, but a game is like one day in that life.  A season has its beginning, its renewal, its innocence and its arch into maturity into the season.  Panic sets in when it hits the middle-age of the season.  Will it we have success, or will we have failure.  At end of season, fans have to accept whether we have failed or whether we have achieved victory.  Kansas City Royals fans know at the beginning of the season that, more than likely, nothing is going to happen for them.  As Mets fans, we want to win, but we never expect it to be easy.  It's always going to be a fight; it's always going to be hard.DS:  The second-class citizen in a first rate city idea that is found in one of your poems.FM:  Yeah, you're going to get pushed around.  People are going to disagree with you.  It's not going to be easy.  You're going to have to take a lot of pills, take an extra drink, go to the gym an extra day to run off some energy.DS:  You and poet Ron Whitehead embarked on a "War Poets" tour of Europe.  You as a pro-war poet, and Whitehead as a pro-peace poet.  Forgive the crude terminology; I realize there is probably nuance in there.  In the over four years since that tour has your outlook evolved at all?FM:  I've never been for any war.  I try to avoid altercation on any level, be it emotional, physical, or political.  But there are some wars I think that are necessary.  History has shown this.  Was this one necessary?  I don't know.  Twenty years from now we'll have to figure that out.  I hope that we've all learned something from it.DS:  What is your feeling toward the Iraq War now?FM: It's a mess.  It's a mess.  We went in to get a job done, get Hussein out of there, liberate the Iraqi people as was dictated in the 1998 Liberation Act that Senator Lieberman helped draft and President Clinton put out there.  President Bush, Congress and the American people supported going in there.  I'm not going to backtrack: I did support going in there, and even as an artist and a poet, and as a freak, I made a decision, that it was time to take this guy out.  I spoke with many Iraqi Americans who live in my neighborhood who also supported that.  Lebanese and Iranian friends I have supported it.  One of my childhood friends, Adel Nehme, came out of Beirut, Lebanon around 1972.  We met in kindergarten and we've been friends ever since.  He was someone who escaped that turmoil.  His family brought him to New Jersey specifically to pull him out of that hell, like the way my father took us out of the gangland hell of the South Bronx.  Like any father would do, to protect his family.DS:  Do you still feel the Iraq War is protecting us, and that the original reasons you supported it are still valid?FM:  It's a mess.  The original reasons?  Yes.  Looking back, hindsight is always 20/20.  Unlike many artists, I have vocally supported the war.  Many artists who support this war won't say that.  Ron Whitehead is a dear friend.  We have mutual respect for each other but we disagree on a lot of issues.  Nevertheless, there's only one man I want fighting in the trenches of life with me, and that's Ron Whitehead.DS:  When you look at the state of the world, what five descriptors come to mind?FM:  Chaos.  Yearning for peace.  Confusion.  Desperation.  Hope.DS:  And are you hopeful?FM:  Yes.DS:  Where do you get that hope from?FM:  My faith in the human spirit.  I think people are inherently good.DS:  Joe Benigno said, "No one would question a poet writing about love for a woman, but when you’re a fan of a team, the emotional attachment is even stronger, because women come and go, but your team never changes."  Do you think that analogy really holds, because you are attracted to the Mets, and you are attracted to women, and the players on both of those teams in your life change. FM:  Loving a baseball team is having to put up with the imperfections, the routine of what kind of mood is it going to be today.  It doesn't come down to whether we are going to win or lose, it comes down to: is the player going to perform this way?  Or , is the pitcher going to be ambivalent?  Am I even going to have enough strength to watch this game?  Am I going to wash my hands?  Am  I going to lay in bed all day?  What am I going to do?  The game becomes a reflection of true life in that way.DS:  The difference is that you know what to expect from the players on the Mets.  They have defined roles and there is some certitude.  With women, as the players change you don't know what they are going to do; whereas in baseball the players have roles and you know what to expect of them.FM:  It's a dangerous proposition being any fan, but particularly a Mets fan, because you are going to have to accept you will fall in love with imperfection.  When you fall in love with a woman, you are accepting them for all their flaws, those elements that make them human, worts and all.  And I accept my team worts and all.  They have given me a great deal of joy, a great deal of entertainment, exhilaration, and a hell of a lot of pain like in any fan.  This isn't the Brady Bunch, this isn't Leave it to Beaver.  Few things are, if anything.DS:  You were the recipient of the 1993 Allen Ginsberg Poetry Award.  In 1996 I met Ginsberg at the Naropa Institute in Boulder.  I asked him about NAMBLA, the North American Man/Boy Love Association.  He told me to follow him into the bathroom.  As I stood there he peed and told me he wasn't for having sex with children, but that he thought that age-of-consent laws were outdated, that he knew what he wanted when he was fifteen and that he thought everyone does at that age.  He said he wasn't for sex with children, but that it should not be illegal to have sex at that age.  When you accepted the Ginsberg award, did you have an issue with some of his political stances?FM:  I was too young at the time to realize what he thought.  I never knew what went on behind closed doors with Allen, and aside from meeting him a few times, I never knew him on a personal level.  I accepted the nomination, like young people do each year, because of his poetry, not because of his politics.  I was proud.  That is what the award was designed for.  There are laws in this country for a reason, to protect children and to protect people from predators.  Whether Allen was a predator or not, I don't have any idea.DS:  All evidence is that he was not a predator, but that he was a voice for change of age-of-consent laws.FM:  To me, it's a non-issue.  Put your hand on my kid and believe me, it's all over for the predator.  That's my policy.  When someone's 18, that's the deal.  I'll stick with the law on that one.DS:  What's a lesson your mother taught you?FM:  To never give up.  She was supportive even when I made mistakes, as a good mother will do.  In school my parents were called up a lot.  It was not easy being a parent of Frankie.  Teachers were constantly calling.  I was disruptive, I would talk out of line, I was a class clown.  She taught me to never give up no matter what vocation you choose in your life.  My mother was never critical of my poems and writing.  We're good friends and she's a lot of fun.DS:  How would you choose your death?FM:  Either in battle or laying in bed with family around me.DS:  Have you ever had a moment where you saw your death?FM:  Yes, a couple of times.  Once I was on one of those small planes flying to Pittsburgh last year to see the Mets, actually one of those 25-seat airplanes flying out of Newark in a lightning storm.  We had ascended over Newark and the plane was struck by lightning.  There was no panic on the plane at all, but something, we knew, was terribly wrong.  I saw a flash of light when it hit the plane and a fellow across the aisle said, "Did you just see that?" and I said that I thought we were struck by lightning.  He said it felt like something got ripped off the plane.  There was so much turbulence.  The stewardess came out with one of the co-pilots, who announced we were struck by lightning, but that we were going to continue the flight.  There was a moment there, I think a good 30 seconds, where I was certain the plane was going to break apart.DS:  Did you have any realizations?FM:  I thought, this is it.  This is it.  There was acceptance.  When my father was diagnosed with cancer in June of 2005 and  I got to see a man who accepted his fate.  He died two months later.  He was like the Captain of the Titanic.  My mother was also calm.  I was the one freaking out inside.  I saw someone who had acknowledged his own demise, accepted it, and died at home.  He was a tough old guy.  It takes a lot to accept that, it takes a very strong person.  In this culture we value life very much, and some people look at death as a failure, but it's going to happen to all of us.  My theory is to help yourself, and help others in life.New Zealand's new digital free to air television platform, Freeview was 'switched on' today at the Auckland Museum by the Government. This is the beginning of digital, and within 10 years, analogue transmission will be switched off for good.Broadcasting minister, Steve Maharey said that it may take time for people to be persuaded to change to Freeview, but says changing to it is necessary. He describes Freeview as the path to a digital nirvana.Broadcasting spokesperson for National Dr Jonathan Coleman says that the Government was told that, for Freeview to work, quality content was needed, otherwise people wouldn't see a need to change.Before the launch of Freeview, the only way New Zealanders could watch digital TV was to subscribe to the only pay TV operator, SKY Network Television.Viewers who have bought the required NZ$300 set top box can only watch TV ONE, TV2, TV3, C4, and Māori Television. Radio New Zealand National and Radio New Zealand Concert are also available on Freeview to listen to. The most notable exception from the current line up of channels is SKY's free to air channel, Prime.There is a possibility for an extra 13 channels to be added at a later date.State broadcaster, Television New Zealand (TVNZ), who owns TV One and TV2, announced earlier that they will be launching two new channels. One will carry family, arts and entertainment type programmes and the other will be a news and current affairs channel. The former will be launched later this year, and the latter being launched next year. As well as the $25 million the Government has already contributed to Freeview, TVNZ's new channels will be given $79 million over five years.Various local broadcasters are also worried how they will survive when the analouge transmission is turned off. The Regional TV Broadcasters Association Chairman Jim Blackman has estimated the cost for regional broadcasters to be up to $1 million annually. He says the Government needs to help these broadcasters for them survive."Every New Zealander can now receive digital television with no monthly fees and no contracts. They simply purchase a Freeview satellite set top box, and if they need one, install a dish, and their favourite television programmes are free," Freeview General Manager, Steve Browning said. Freeview terrestrial transmission will start sometime next year.Controversy has been thrown up recently that Sky has told its contractors not to help install set top boxes for Freeview. SKY refused to comment to Radio New Zealand about this.Mr Browning said that the launch is as significant as the launch of colour television was 30 years ago.The owner of TV3 and the music channel C4, has made an unprecedented move by winning an interim injunction against New Zealand's monopolistic pay television operator, Sky Network Television over their amount of content screened of the Rugby World Cup. TV3, the official RWC television broadcaster for New Zealand, described Sky's actions as illegal and unethical.MediaWorks, which runs TVWorks and RadioWorks, filed the injunction against Sky in Auckland's High Court today saying it breached fair dealing practices over its use of Rugby World Cup footage. Sky is now temporarily banned from screening TV3's WRC footage on The Cup, Rugby Highlights (channel) and Sport 365 Highlights.An agreement between MediaWorks and other broadcasters, including Sky, was signed allowing content to be used for news purposes, but state Sky breached the agreement and used content of which it had no right to.Bill Ralston, former head of news and current affairs at TVNZ (Television New Zealand), said when they had 2003 Rugby World Cup rights, "TV3 pushed the boundary by taking a bit more than they should." The three networks usually pushed the rules but the boundaries were relaxed. "Simply because Sky controls so many sports rights themselves, you can normally get a good quid pro quo out of them. You relax a bit, they relax a bit."The TVWorks Chief Operating Officer said, "We are simply acting to protect our interests, and the interests of the viewing public." Rick Friesen said, "We believe Sky’s behaviour to be unethical and illegal, and we will be taking whatever action we can to protect the interests of ourselves and every Rugby fan in New Zealand."An undisclosed amount of money was paid to secure the rights to screen footage, beating TVNZ and Sky. It has been rumoured the cost is to be in the millions of dollars (NZ$).Sky is yet to make a comment on this action.A full hearing on the injunction will occur on Friday.MediaWorks has won their suit against the only pay television operator in New Zealand, Sky Network Television. The injunction was first filed due to Sky broadcasting too much coverage of the Rugby World Cup, which TV3, owned by MediaWorks, has the exclusive television rights to in New Zealand.A temporary injunction was issued on September 12 and a full hearing took place that Friday. However, the Judge, Justice Helen Winkelmann, reserved her decision and released it this morning.The Auckland High Court injunction will prohibit footage being used on Sky programmes The Cup, and Reunion. Sky-owned free-to-air channel, Prime Television, is also prohibited from using footage for The Crowd Goes Wild. These shows were described as being in a magazine style, and not in a news and current affairs format.TV3 does have an agreement with Sky, as well as with TVNZ (Television New Zealand), which allows use of it's footage for "hard news programmes", but not on niche or magazine styles shows.On the news format shows, only three screenings spaced three hours apart each day will be allowed. John Fellet, chief executive of Sky, said that broadcasting will continue as normal for it's news shows, such as Sport 365. Sky Sport 1, Sky Sport 2, Sky Sport 3, and SKY Sports Highlights will be counted as one channel for the total allowable screening time.Rick Friesen, chief operating officer of MediaWorks, said, "The judge has clearly understood all the issues in this case and upheld TV3's right to protect its interests, expanding significantly upon the temporary order issued last week."Sky have stated that they will now crack down on TV3's use of their footage. Sky has the rights to most sports, including the Super 14, Tri-Nations, and more. Fellet said, "It looks like in the longer term we have won, one way of the other. ...We will now reciprocate by closely scrutinising MediaWorks' use of Sky footage."French writer Jean-Marie Gustave Le Clézio has been awarded by the Swedish Academy with the 2008 Nobel Prize in Literature. Le Clézio thus wins the prestigious prize of 10 million Swedish krona (US$1.4 million), for being "an author of new departures, poetic adventure and sensual ecstasy, an explorer of a humanity beyond and below the reigning civilisation," according to the Academy.His first book, Le Procès-verbal, was published in 1963, when the novelist was 23 years old. Now, aged 68, he receives the Nobel Prize in Literature being recognised as a key figure of French literature."As a young writer in the aftermath of existentialism and the nouveau Roman, he was a conjurer who tried to lift words above the degenerate state of everyday speech and to restore to them the power to invoke an essential reality," the Academy wrote in its communiqué. "The emphasis in Le Clezio's work has increasingly moved in the direction of an exploration of the world of childhood and of his own family history."The writer, now a juror of the Prix Renaudot, wrote pieces such as La Fièvre, L'Extase matérielle, Terra amata, Le Livre des fuites, La Guerre, Désert and Le Chercheur d'or.The French institution of regulation of broadcasting media has recently prohibited the use of the words "Facebook" and "Twitter" on television or radio broadcasts; except where these social networks are a central part of a news report. The regulation, issued by the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA), cites a 1992 statute governing the relationship between journalists and advertising, sponsorship, and "teleshopping". Mentioning the words "Facebook" or "Twitter" on air, in the eyes of the CSA, constitutes "clandestine advertising". CSA spokesperson Christine Kelly explained her organization's desire to set a level playing field when it comes to social networking: "Why give preference to Facebook, which is worth billions of dollars, when there are many other social networks that are struggling for recognition," she said. "This would be a distortion of competition. If we allow Facebook and Twitter to be cited on air, it's opening a Pandora’s Box — other social networks will complain to us saying, 'why not us?'"Broadcasters now may not tell their listeners to "find us on Facebook", but rather "find us on social networks". However, they would still be allowed to name the social networking sites when either is involved in a news story.Business Insider contributor Matthew Fraser sees this action as a form of animosity towards US culture: "Facebook and Twitter are, of course, American social networks. In France, they are regarded — at least implicitly — as symbols of Anglo-Saxon global dominance — along with Apple, MTV, McDonald’s, Hollywood, Disneyland, and other cultural juggernauts. That there is a deeply-rooted animosity in the French psyche towards Anglo-Saxon cultural domination cannot be disputed; indeed, it has been documented and analysed for decades. Sometimes this cultural resentment finds expression in French regulations and laws, frequently described, and often denounced, by foreigners as protectionism."CNET's Chris Matyszczyk, on the other hand, suspects that Frenchmen will hardly miss the explicit references to social networks tacked onto the end of broadcasts. "I am confident that not one single French citizen will miss the now standard cliche at the end of each broadcast entreating every viewer to please keep in contact with the news station on one or other of the American social networks."René Vautier, the self-described "most censored director in France", died yesterday aged 86.Vautier focused on French colonies. He made over 150 films and targeted what he described as "lack of teachers and doctors, the crimes committed by the French Army in the name of France, the instrumentalization of the colonized peoples". One topic of particular focus was the war in Algeria. Between 1954 and 1962 Algerians fought for, and won, their independence from France.His work on the conflict included Algeria in Flames in 1958 and 20 Years in Aures, which also investigated post-conflict Algeria and won 1972's international critics' award at the Cannes Film Festival. That film looked at killings by young French conscripts.In 1950 he was imprisoned in France for a year for, amongst other things, unauthorised filming in Upper Volta, a colonial region that became Burkina Faso. His footage was seized but he salvaged sufficient material to make Afrique 50, a seventeen-minute work that was banned in France until 1990.His work in the 60s and 70s looked at racism in former Rhodesia, which is now Zimbabwe, and in South Africa. He compared his investigative footage with the official position of local authorities. In 1974 he co-directed Human, Too Human, an almost-unspoken film depicting Citroen car manufacture in France.Other topics he covered include pollution, women's rights, and the French far-right.Vautier's achievements outside of directing include a hunger strike in 1973 against what he viewed as political censorship. French law was changed. His activism went back to age 15 when he joined the French Resistance during World War II. He documented himself in a 1998 book. In the 1960s he headed back to newly-independent Algeria to teach film directing.Vautier himself was trained at the Advanced Institute for Cinemagraphic Studies, in Paris.Jean Delannoy, an early actor who started out in silent film movies and became a film director has died yesterday at the age of 100. The cause of death was announced as old age.Delannoy was born on January 12, 1908 in Noisy-le-Sec, Île-de-France, France. Amongst his best known works is the 1958 film "Maigret tend un piège", which he directed.Although Delannoy was born in a Paris suburb, his family was from Haute-Normandie in the north of France. He was a Protestant, a descendant of Huguenots, some of whom fled the country during the French Wars of Religion and were first to settle in Wallonia. After their name became De la Noye and then Delano, they were on the second ship to emigrate to Plymouth, Massachusetts in America.Delannoy was a student in Paris when he began acting in silent films. He eventually landed a job with Paramount Studios Parisian facilities, working his way up to head film editor. In 1934 he directed his first film and went on to a long career, both writing and directing. In 1946, his film about a Protestant minister titled La symphonie pastorale was awarded the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival. In 1960, his film, Maigret tend un piège was nominated for a BAFTA award for "Best Film from any Source."In recognition of his long service to the French motion picture industry, Delannoy was given an Honorary César Award in 1986.Alain Corneau, a French film director, has died at the age of 67. His death was announced by the Artmedia talent agency.  The cause of death was announced as cancer.Born on August 7, 1943, Corneau's first interest was music.  He later went to Paris to study filmmaking. Before the success of his first film, Corneau attempted to make a documentary about New York and an adaptation of a novel.  After working as assistant director on L'Aveu with Costa Gavras he directed his first film in 1973, France, Inc.Corneau's other films include La Menace, Fort Saganne, and the highly successful Tous les matins du monde.Tous les matins du monde received 11 César Award nominations and won seven of them.  The awards included Best Film, Best Director, and Best Music.  Corneau said in a 1992 interview in the New York Times that "Many people got emotional about this film, and that made it possible for it to escape cult status."French President Nicolas Sarkozy commented on the death of Corneau.  He said "Corneau was a courageous man and a great director."Corneau was set to appear at the Toronto Film Festival in September.One day after France began enforcing a ban on the public wearing Islamic veils that cover the face, either a niqāb or a burqa, French police briefly detained two veiled women. The police later claimed that the women were arrested for taking part in an unauthorized protest, not because they were wearing veils.The new law is hotly debated. The women were arrested while outside the famed Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris, and may now face fines of up to $217 (150 euros), community service and/or a citizenship course under the law.While the ban covers the burqa and the niqāb, it does not include the hijab or the chador. The hijab is a veil that leaves the face visible while covering the hair and neck, and the chador covers only the body.The law has stirred much debate, both in France and around the globe. Those who oppose the new law say it limits freedom of speech and freedom of religion, while supporters claim that women are degraded by wearing veils and the law is intended to empower those women, as well as increase public security.The French government, in defense of the ban, said that it was necessary because wearing veils falls short of the living standards in France and and makes women be of an lower status in a country where everybody is considered equal.French Prime Minister Francois Fillon has said that the ban is consistent with the national values of France. "The French Republic lives in a bare-headed fashion," he said in a statement published by a government newspaper.The French government previously made efforts to accommodate Muslims in the country, including establishing a council dealing with the presence of Islam; however, according to Amer Sahar, a professor who studies the topic, some Muslims in the country say that they feel as though they are under assault by the government. She said that some are "resentful of the fact that they are not allowed to be both Muslim and French."The French government is also concerned with women and children who are forced to veil themselves. It has said that such an action is "a new form of enslavement that the republic cannot accept on its soil." There is a fine of 30,000 euros (about $43,300) and a year in prison for forcing an adult to wear the niqāb or burqa. The fine is doubled for forcing a minor to wear the veils.Activist Rachid Nekkaz auctioned one of his homes to provide money to pay the fine for any woman arrested under the law. "I would like to send a clear message to President Nicolas Sarkozy that we can do what we want. We have rules. We have a constitution and everyone has to respect it," he said.According to the French Constitutional Council, the law "conforms to the Constitution" because it does not limit the freedom of religion or excessively punish people for exercising that right in a place of worship.Claude Lévi-Strauss, French anthropologist who developed structuralism as a method of understanding human society and culture, has died in Paris at the age of 100.Lévi-Strauss was born on November 28, 1908 in Brussels, Belgium. Lévi-Strauss studied law and philosophy at the Sorbonne in Paris.Lévi-Strauss lived in Brazil from 1935 to 1939. It was during this time that he undertook his first ethnographic fieldwork, conducting periodic research forays into the Mato Grosso and the Amazon Rainforest. He studied first the Guaycuru and Bororo Indian tribes, actually living among them for a while. Several years later, he returned for a second, year-long expedition to study the Nambikwara and Tupi-Kawahib societies. It was this experience that cemented Lévi-Strauss's professional identity as an anthropologist. Edmund Leach suggests, from Lévi-Strauss's own accounts in Tristes-Tropiques, that he could not have spent more than a few weeks with any place and was never able to converse easily with any of his native informants in their native language.The war years in New York were formative for Lévi-Strauss in several ways. His relationship with Roman Jakobson helped shape his theoretical outlook (Jakobson and Lévi-Strauss are considered to be two of the central figures on which structuralist thought is based). In addition, Lévi-Strauss was also exposed to the American anthropology espoused by Franz Boas, who taught at Columbia University on New York's Upper West Side. In 1942 in fact, while having dinner at the Faculty House at Columbia, Boas died of a heart attack in Lévi-Strauss's arms. This intimate association with Boas gave his early work a distinctive American tilt that helped facilitate its acceptance in the U.S. After a brief stint from 1946 to 1947 as a cultural attaché to the French embassy in Washington, DC, Lévi-Strauss returned to Paris in 1948. It was at this time that he received his doctorate from the Sorbonne by submitting, in the French tradition, both a "major" and a "minor" thesis. These were The Family and Social Life of the Nambikwara Indians and The Elementary Structures of Kinship.Lévi-Strauss' later works are more controversial, in part because they impinge on the subject matter of other scholars. He believed that modern life and all history was founded on the same categories and transformations that he had discovered in the Brazilian back country – The Raw and the Cooked, From Honey to Ashes, The Naked Man (to borrow some titles from the Mythologiques). For instance he compares anthropology to musical serialism and defends his "philosophical" approach. He also pointed out that the modern view of primitive cultures was simplistic in denying them a history. The categories of myth did not persist among them because nothing had happened – it was easy to find the evidence of defeat, migration, exile, repeated displacements of all the kinds known to recorded history. Instead, the mythic categories had encompassed these changes.Lévi-Strauss is survived by his wife Monique Roman and two sons.Alain Jaubert, director of the famous art program "Palettes" by Association Relative à la Télévision Européenne (ARTE) was invited by Taiwan Public Television Service (PTS Taiwan) and the French Institute in Taipei to talk about productions on his art program on January 19 in Taipei City. He also talked about some experiences and functionalities on art programs with the Chairman of National Culture and Arts Foundation Mingchuan Huang.According to PTS Taiwan, Jaubert failed at his first attempt to produce "Palettes" in 1984, but finally succeeded in 1987 after his proposal was recalled and Jaubery tried another production style to introduce history and background on establishments of notable pictures to Europe. This program was finally recognized and encouraged by administration centers from three ancient monuments (Louvre, Musée d'Orsay, and Pompidou Centre). This also echoed Jaubert's words in his speech: "Without support by art comrades and those administrations centers, 'Palettes' would not exist; I wouldn't have become notable in Europe."Before the Executive Panel, the PTS Taiwan screened highlights from some art programs including "Pelettes" by ARTE and "Avant Guard Liberation" by Mingchuan Huang. After the screening, executives talked about specifications on art programs and forecasted the future of directions on art programs world-wide.French writer Julien Gracq, the pen Name of Louis Poirier, died Saturday at the age of 97.Born on July 27, 1910 in Saint-Florent-le-Vieil, France, his body of work would include poetry, novels and one theatrical work.Tributes included French President Nicolas Sarkozy's declaration that Gracq was "one of the greatest French writers of the 20th century."In 1989, Gracq's work was published by the Bibliothèque de la Pléiade. He remained distant from major literary events and faithful to his first editor José Corti. He taught history and geography in highschool until he retired in 1970.There will be a full lunar eclipse starting on Saturday, March 3. Earth's passage between the Sun and the Moon will begin casting its shadow on the surface of the Moon starting at 20:18 UTC. The Moon will be totally eclipsed by the Earth's shadow between 22:44 and 23:58 UTC.Cloudless conditions would make for a great viewing experience as the Lunar phase is now full. The color of the moon will be like that of copper.In England, the lunar eclipse will occur between 8:18pm and until 2:24am.A chart to calculate the time offset from UTC puts the eclipse starting at 3:18pm EST in North America. The moon will be totally eclipsed 21 minutes prior to sunset in that time zone. The moonrise will occur during the period it is eclipsed, at 6:01pm. Viewers will be able to see the moon re-emerge from the Earth's shadow, weather permitting.The eclipse will take place during the Hindu festival of Holi.News networks quickly picked up footage of Tigger punching a guest at Walt Disney World. The Monaco family claims that the costume character hit their son in the face unprovoked. He went to the hospital that night, to get medication for "neck pain".The full home video of Tigger punching has now surfaced on YouTube, providing a unique context to the incident.News outlets, on the other hand, were only provided with a four second clip of the footage, which seems to have been edited to back up the Monaco family's claims.In the full footage, edited to include commentary, the blogger transcribes the voices of Jerry Monaco Junior and Senior, as Jerry Sr. videotapes the ground.Sr: Go for it.Jr: Ready?Sr: Here we go. Sorry Tig. My bad man. Aw, too much? Heh. Sorry buddy. Oh yeah, I was on your head. Sorry about that.Adult female voice: Jerry get over here.Sr: (unintelligible) No crowding Tigger, man.(Tigger punches, and Jerry Jr. reacts by returning the motion.)Sr: Jerry! Jerry!He comments that "it sounds like Jerry [Jr.] laughs, and then his arm goes down a bit", in order to undo the zipper on the back of Tigger's costume, before his punch is thrown."Now the question to ask is are the father and son game players? I mean, the father says, 'oh yeah, I was on your head.'"The blogger comments that he notices "Jerry's pretty quick to hit Tigger back on the head... I mean if Tigger's hitting him out of the blue, he's reacting pretty fast in hitting Tigger."Representative Press is a blog that aims for media reform.Amateur filmmaker Solomon Rothman has released a full-length open source movie called 'Boy Who Never Slept.' The movie is offered under a Creative Commons Attribution-Noncommercial-ShareAlike 2.5 license; this allows people to use, edit, or share the movie in any way (except commercially) as long as they credit the creators.All of the raw unedited footage, including audio files, is offered under a Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 license; as long as the creators are credited, users can do whatever they want with the files privately or commercially. The open source movie and original files are available for free download or streaming from a variety of sources, including direct downloading from the Internet Movie Archives, video distribution sites like Google video and Veoh, via file sharing networks like BitTorrent, and more. The full list is found on the official movie website.The film centers on the life of an insomniac writer who meets a teenage girl online, and a friendship that grows into an unlikely love story wrapped in harsh reality. The movie deals with various issues, including the romanticization of love, age-related issues in relationships, like statutory rape (he's 23, and she's 16), and the idea of love in the online realm.Rothman, a writer, amateur filmmaker and web designer, lives in the Los Angeles Area. He wrote, directed and produced the movie with his partner, A. Brown. Producing the movie for $200 while they were in college, they used friends as actors and later sold the camera on eBay to recoup the expense.Rothman has spoken about the importance of exploring new possibilities in film making, especially for amateur filmmakers, “I believe that everyone has the ability to tell at least one good story and I wanted the world to see the power of the Internet Community as a distribution source for amateur filmmakers.  I released “Boy Who Never Slept” as an open source movie to encourage new filmmakers and to reach the largest possible audience on a budget absolutely anyone could afford.” The movie is unrated; it explores adult themes and contains graphic language and brief nudity.In Liverpool, England the North West Development Agency (NWDA) has approved funds of nearly £33 million (about $57.6 million U.S. dollars) for the construction of the Museum of Liverpool on Mann Island at the Pier Head — part of Liverpool's UNESCO World Heritage Site waterfront. An additional £7.5 million (about 13.1 million U.S. dollars) has been allocated for the creation of a canal link across Mann Island, encompassing central docks, the Pier Head, and the Albert Dock.The museum is to replace the current Museum of Liverpool Life. The future museum, which is presently a £65 million pound project, is to be the situated on the site of the failed "Fourth Grace" building. The "Three Graces" are: the Royal Liverpool Building, the Cunard Building; and the Port of Liverpool Building. The abortive Fourth Grace was a controversial building known as "The Cloud", the brainchild of architect Will Alsop. It was cancelled in July 2004 after local opposition, rising costs and the belief that the design was unrealistic. The future museum, which will be designed in the shape of an "X", will feature 10,000 square metres of exhibition space on Liverpool's cultural and social history, including present exhibits of the Museum of Liverpool Life.The two projects are considered integral aspects of Liverpool's successful bid in 2003 for the 2008 European Capital of Culture.From March 15 to 17, the Canadian city of Toronto played host to the tenth Furnal Equinox, an annual event dedicated to the "furry fandom." Wikinews attended. Programming ranged from music to gender, science to art, covering dozens of aspects of the varied subculture. The event's featured guests were visual artists Moth Monarch and Cat-Monk Shiro, as well as the co-owners of US fursuit costume builders Don't Hug Cacti.The event raised nearly CDN$11,000 for Pet Patrol, a non-profit rescue organization in Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario, run by volunteers. This exceeded their goal of $10,000, the funds needed to finish a rural sanctuary. The furry community is well-known for their charitable efforts. Along with direct donations, the funds were raised through a charity auction offering original artwork, and a fursuit design by guests of honour "Don't Hug Cacti." Last year, Furnal Equinox raised funds for a farm animal sanctuary.While only 10–15% of people within the fandom own a fursuit according to a 2011 study, event organizers reported this year 908 of the 2240 attendees at Furnal Equinox brought at least one elaborate outfit to the event. The outfits are usually based on original characters, known as "fursonas".Guests of Honour Cherie and Sean O'Donnell, known within the community as "Lucky and Skuff Coyote", held a session on fursuit construction on Saturday afternoon. The married couple are among the most prominent builders in the fandom, under the name Don't Hug Cacti. The scale of their business was evident, as Sean had made over a thousand pairs of "handpaws", costume gloves.The couple encouraged attendees to continue developing their technique, sharing that all professional fursuit makers had developed different techniques. They felt that they learned more from failed projects than successful ones, citing the Chuck Jones quote that "every artist has thousands of bad drawings," and that you have to work through them to achieve. Cherie, known as Lucky, recalled receiving a Sylvester the Cat plush toy from a Six Flags theme park at age 10. She promptly hollowed the toy out, turning it into a costume. Creating a costume isn't without its hazards: the company uses 450°F (232°C) glue guns. They're "like sticking your hand in an oven."Other programming included improv comedy, dances, life drawing of fursuiters, a review of scientific research by a research group at four universities called FurScience, a pin collector's social, and workshops in writing.The "Dealer's Den" hall was expanded this year, with even more retailers and artists. While many offered "furry" versions of traditional products, at least one business focused on "pushing the boundaries of fursuit technology." Along with 3D printing a bone-shaped name tag when Wikinews visited, Grivik was demonstrating miniature computer screens that could be used as "eyes" for a fursuit. The electronic displays projected an animation of eyes looking around, blinking occasionally. The maker has also developed "a way to install a camera inside suit heads, to improve fursuiter visibility." He hopes the tech would reduce suiting risks and accidents. Without the need for eyeholes, fursuit makers would have "more options for building different eyestyles."San Jose, California —Cell phones, cigarette lighters and glowsticks are raised in tribute as Circle of Life begins playing. Soon cheers drown out the song as the multicoloured performers appear on stage. A somewhat unusual introduction; but this is no ordinary show, and these are no ordinary attendees. This is Further Confusion, the second largest furry convention in the world.The volunteer organizers have something to cheer about, too; Furry fans have gathered from far and wide at the DoubleTree Hotel to indulge their love of anthropomorphics, and Further Confusion's 9th year is its largest, with a paid attendance of 2061. Their gains mirror those of Midwest FurFest, a similar convention held in Schaumburg, Illinois which grew 35% last November.Both events feature art shows and auctions, live puppetry performance, masquerades, variety shows, games and parades, as well as panels that range from science and technology to society, sex and spirituality. Filling out the schedule, the hotel walls are lined with announcements of public and private room parties for separate groups. At night, the disco floor fills with dancing cats, dogs, and dragons.For some, dressing up plays a large part of the convention - almost 300 brought a full costume. There are few professional mascots here, though, and only one or two of the costumes would be recognized by even the most avid cartoon-watcher. Instead, each act is planned and performed by other attendees, wearing "fursuits" of their own design. Many play off the year's secret-agent theme — "Fur Your Eyes Only".Other fans seem content to restrict themselves to small accessories — perhaps some combination of paws, ears, or tail. Each fur bears a 3"x2" badge detailing their personal character, or "fursona". Often these characters are better-known than the people who play them.It may seem lighthearted, even frivolous, but these conventions are becoming big business. Furry fans spent over $180,000 for lodging during the five days (Jan 18-22) of Further Confusion, and another $50,000 at the art auction. Attendees also purchase all manner of merchandise from attending dealers and artists, from on-the-spot art commissions and comic books of all ratings to prints, sculptures, and plush toys - even their very own fluffy tail.Of course, any business has risk, and conventions can drain wallets when the sums just don't add up. The first furry con, ConFurence in Southern California, ran successfully for over a decade, but cost its new organizer an estimated $60,000 in its last four years due to falling attendance before folding in 2003.Anthropomorphic Arts and Education board member Peter Torkelson says that won't happen to Further Confusion. Indeed, the convention ran a healthy surplus of almost $30,000 on $125,000 revenue last year, allowing it to pay off the last of its old debts and save for the future. As Torkelson explains: "The idea is if for some reason, say an earthquake happens, and it cripples the revenue stream, the convention will be able to survive into the next year. It does help our staff to know that we have [a reserve]."The reserve also gives AAE the financial flexibility to fund charities throughout the year, a big part of its 501(c)(3) mandate. Over the nine years of the convention, attendees have raised over $60,000 for a variety of animal sanctuaries, wildlife refuges, and the Comic Book Legal Defense Fund.Further Confusion's hopes for the future are high. Chairwoman Laura Cherry noted that, unlike previous years, the board has "gone all out" for next year's tenth anniversary, booking as many rooms as the hotel could offer. The host for 2009 has yet to be decided, but for many fans the question was not whether the current hotel will reach a limit, but when - and where - the convention will find a new home.Emigrant Rufino Lopez, born in Cedeira, Galicia, Spain in 1955, was awarded on Wednesday with the 2013 Spanish-American International Award by the Spanish Benevolent Society of New York.Graduated in literature by the Lehman College of CUNY in 1976, Rufino Lopez has preserved his admiration to the great figures of Spanish literary and philosophical tradition, as Unamuno and Ortega y Gasset, or Cervantes, while shaping the Solera Restaurant, located in the city of New York for more than twenty years, near the United Nations Headquarters. Rufino is the only son of Galician Francisco Lopez, who emigrated to New York City as a construction worker in 1971.While studying, Rufino Lopez worked in Italian and French restaurants, finding no Spanish restaurants that could represent the high value of Spanish cuisine in the Big Apple. In 1987 he founded his first restaurant, called Alcalá, in the Upper West Side in Manhattan, and in 1991 founded Solera Restaurant. Since its opening, in the days when the paella was made ​​in Manhattan in a pot with a lid instead of the regional authentic way as made in Valencia, with a pan, the Executive Chef of Solera Restaurant at that time, Dominick Cerrone, began incorporating Spanish regional dishes prepared with fidelity to its Spanish origin, one of the marks of the restaurant.The history of the Spanish-American International Award began in 2012, when the writer and filmmaker Artur Balder was awarded. Artur Balder, now a US citizen, directed the documentary Little Spain, which displayed the historical memory of the Spanish district of Manhattan. According to the website of the organization, the award was created with the mission to promote the image of Spanish emigration in the United States, and is given to promote the work of those who are contributing to the consolidation of the Spanish-American identity in the United States. The Spanish-American International Prize was created to support emigrants who have made an outstanding contribution to the Spanish-American identity and the American heritage.Canadian community art group Visual Arts Brampton is looking for entries for its international entry mail art exhibit "Control".The exhibit's entry information discusses the theme of the show: "Are you a control-freak, or more happy-go-lucky? What do you think of corporations' control on the media and governments? Is your life quickly spinning out of control? Always hitting Ctrl-Alt-Del?"The exhibition dates have yet to be scheduled, but the show will run in early 2006 at either the Fridge Front Gallery or upcoming World Art Gallery in Shoppers World Brampton, a mall in suburban Toronto.While it prefers 4 x 6 inch artworks, VAB asks that entries are no larger than 6 x 6 inches. VAB's address is "Snail Mail Central / 1 Bartley Bull Parkway, Suite 10 / Brampton ON / L6W 3T7". Entries must be received by January 31, 2006.This show will help Visual Arts Brampton to continue to build up a reputation in the mail art world. The non-profit community art group is in the process of opening up the World Art Gallery, which will be the first permanent display space to solely exhibit mail art. Over the past few years, the club has organized three general no theme exhibits, and "SAT: An Exhibit of Chairs", which is running currently.A New Zealand teenager's conversion of the popular Grand Theft Auto (GTA) video game is gaining popularity and the New Zealand Police are unhappy at their portrayal. Stacy O'Callaghan talked to Wikinews' Gabriel Pollard about his mod.The police cars and the police officers have been given a makeover to resemble the New Zealand versions. The planes were branded Air New Zealand, and ambulances were converted to match the local Wellington scheme, among various other changes.The Beehive, Te Papa and the Sky Tower are looking to be added to the game also. O'Callaghan says, "We actually have the models for these buildings but haven't figured out how to import them into the game."Theres plenty more to come, but thats our progress so far."Despite media reports stating the Police were investigating whether or not the mod breached the law prohibiting the unauthorised use of police insignia, O'Callaghan has not heard from the Police at all. He says that if the Police did contact him with their concerns then he might consider taking the download offline. "If people want to start getting all legal and stuff, then I will just remove it."I don't want to offend anyone, I don't hate NZ Police, I think they are actually one of the best Police forces in the world."The 17-year-old has said that his total conversion mod for the San Andreas version of GTA is "fairly popular". "The mod has been fairly popular considering NZ's population, and considering NZ'ers aren't exactly game mod fanatics," O'Callaghan says. He says the latest version of the mod he uploaded has so far had 466 downloads.He has made the mod publicly available for any gamer who wants to play the New Zealand-branded version of the game and enjoy the game as much as he now does. O'Callaghan says he doesn't want to make money off the game change.The original plan was for the GTA modification to only transform the police cars into New Zealand branded cars but was later extended when O'Callaghan was contacted by other developers. He says, "I originally started with just the police cars back in November last year and left it at that, and then after uploading it people came to me saying they wanted to help out with it and so about a couple of months ago we started making this total conversion."O'Callaghan says in the future he would like to join the New Zealand Police and work in computer forensics, failing that he'd like to go into the IT industry.Feel free to use the Wikimedia sites to solve our Wikinews crossword.  Please do not fill it out online as it would spoil it for other people; print it out and fill it in at your own leisure!< Previous crossword.== Quick crossword ==Plymouth, Michigan, United States - This week, independent software developer Stardock released Galactic Civilizations II: Dark Avatar, an expansion to their PC turn-based strategy game Dread Lords. Industry websites IGN and GameSpy responded with Editors' Choice awards, while UGO gave it an A. The expansion had previously been named as one of GameSpy's Most Wanted Games of 2007.Reviewers cited the significant increase in customization options, better artificial intelligence, and an improvement in graphics quality as decisive factors. UGO's Adam Swiderski noted that "if creating a fleet of death-dealing starships sounds like fun to you (and it really should), this is your dream playground," while GameSpy's reviewer suggested that "after a week of playing Dark Avatar, you may forget Master of Orion altogether." Criticism mostly revolved around "uninspired" ground combat, a too-generic tech tree, and the continued lack of multiplayer support.The original game received some publicity for its lack of copy protection, but gained far more by the actions of a StarForce forum administrator, who made a post linking to an illegal BitTorrent download of the game. StarForce developer Protection Technology later claimed this to be a poorly-considered attempt to demonstrate the result of not using their software, which is designed to prevent software piracy. The result was a media backlash against the company, including satirical commentary by gaming webcomic/blog Penny Arcade describing the action as "extortion." Its writer, Jerry Holkins, asked that "publishers distance themselves from a company that has shown such contempt for their industry."The expansion is available as an online purchase in CD or digital download form through Stardock's gaming subsidiary, TotalGaming.net. A compilation of the original and expansion has also been released as Galactic Civilizations II: Gold Edition and is available in stores, say Stardock. Their retail game releases still contain no copy protection, but online activation is required to download updates.The 2008 Taipei Game Show, organized by the Taipei Computer Association (TCA), started at Taipei World Trade Center today and ends next Monday (January 28). World-class gaming experts, governmental officials, and companies from the digital content industry gathered there for trade opportunities and to experience exchanging in the gaming industry.Before the opening of the 2008 Taiwan Digital Contents Forum, Minister of Economic Affairs of the Republic of China Steve Ruey-long Chen, looked on a bright side of the gaming industry and said to executives and media: "We (the public) witnessed the grown up of gaming industry as digital content industry brought up value of production on retail and arcade games and indirectly brought up the population of gaming people in Taiwan."Before that comment by Steve Chen, the 2008 Taiwanese Cyber-Gaming Competition was set up by the organizer and Industry Development Bureau of Ministry of Economic Affairs, supervisor of the "Digital Content Development Project in Taiwan". The organizer said he hopes this competition can market MIT (Made in Taiwan) games to the world and directly discover gaming talents and developers.Not only did officials and executives come, but the TCA, Taipei Orphans Welfare Association, and Taiwan Gaming Industry Association also held special charity biddings to help orphan kids in Taiwan. At this special event, the TCA invited Shih-yuan Chou, Sean Hsing-an Chen, Chih-chung Chen, Wen-ting Tseng, and Hsueh-lin Li as the charity ambassadors.Even with the weather on the down side in Taipei, nearly 10,000 people visited the show. According to the TCA, the peak number of visitors are expected to be on the weekend after several entertainers and sports-people made their stops at the show earlier."Chess is life in miniature. Chess is battles, chess is struggles." said the longtime world champion Garry Kasparov at the height of his career. In a surprise announcement Friday, the grandmaster said he will retire. He went public with his intentions from Linnares, Spain after winning a prestigious tournament there. The news comes as Kasparov, now 41, declared an ambition to devote his energy into the politics of his native Russia.Alternately known as brash, emotional and brilliant, the maverick Kasparov could be a formidable opponent in the realm of politics.  He will partner with the Russian group known as the Committee 2008 (Komitet 2008), whose members are attempting to influence the 2008 Russian election that will replace Putin. The champion said he also wants to write books, with chess being among the subjects, but he will not play any more at the professional level.Always mercurial in defeat, Kasparov lost his final game in tournament play in a stunning upset by Veselin Topalov of Bulgaria. The upset did not take away his victory at the tournament, but his announcement came after being bitterly stung in defeat. At age 22, Kasparov became the youngest person ever to hold the title of world champion when he won it from fellow Russian, Anatoly Karpov, in 1985. The two players dominated the field until infighting in 1993 caused Kasparov to break away from the w:Fédération Internationale des Échecs (FIDE) and form the Professional Chess Association (PCA). In this forum he defeated British challenger Nigel Short. For a period of time, Kasparov, of the PCA, and Karpov, who reclaimed the top spot of the FIDE, both claimed to be world champions.  However, the ratings system developed by FIDE held that Kasparov was the stronger player.  The PCA eventually fell apart in 1995.In 1996, Kasparov was at the top of his game, when a team led by IBM introduced Deep Blue,  the strongest of a new class of chess playing computers. In a highly publicized face-off of man vs. machine, Kasparov won the 6 game match. A year later, against an enhanced version of Deep Blue, he lost. He blamed the loss on a variety of factors, including fatigue against his tireless opponent.While the machine found a new place in the chess world, and while a new generation of chess players favored speed chess, where the fast pace of play does not allow for deep calculation, Kasparov turned his attention to taking on the world.The Kasparov vs. the World online chess game in June 1999 brought together chess players from around the world in a cooperative effort to beat the reigning world champion. With more than 50,000 individuals submitting move votes, Kasparov vs. the World was one of the largest interactive gaming events in history.  Kasparov won this match.Although prom may have taken place over two weeks ago at Maine's Sanford High School, the fact that students elected a gay couple as prom king and queen remains the talk of the local community.During the May 14 event, 17-year-old Christian Nelsen was named prom queen, running as a write-in candidate. One of Nelsen's friends, Holly Smith, spoke of the help they provided in getting him elected: "The day of prom, we went downstairs, and he was yelling 'Vote for Christian Nelsen!' And I was helping people spell his name, or telling them how to write it on the ballot". Nelsen's boyfriend, Caleb Jett, was elected prom king. "I kinda got voted in because he got queen, and it was like 'Who do we vote for king?' and it was like 'Oh, well, his boyfriend, obviously, because that makes sense,'" he said. The two young men wore suits, shirts, and ties to the prom. When the results of the election were announced, they danced the king-queen dance together, Jett wearing his crown and Nelsen his tiara.Maine is one of only two states in New England that have not recognized same-sex marriages. Though they are aware that not everyone supports them, the couple ran to combat high school stereotypes and to encourage more tolerance. Nelsen commented, "It doesn't matter if it's a guy or a girl who wins prom king or prom queen from now on. Anyone can win, and on that same notion any type of person can win. And I'm talking about the tolerance level of all people when I talk about that, so anyone who is bullied or even just under the radar can win this type of thing."Minister of a parish of the United Church of Christ Reverend Diane Wendorf supported the couple, citing her church's values of tolerance and diversity. "I'm glad, too, that they were crowned king and queen, because there are all different kinds of people in this world." Some Sanford residents a local news agency interviewed did not approve of the gay couple's crowning, though none agreed to go on camera — out of concerns that their comments might offend someone. The matter is expected to be brought up by interested citizens at an upcoming school committee meeting. Committee Chair Mark Lucier stated that the school is gathering information on the election, and that the committee may decide if it needs to address the future selection of prom kings and queens.When signing up for an account on MySpace, a popular social networking site, and filling out the "Background and Lifestyle" area of your profile, if you are a gay male MySpace doesn't list that as a possible sexual orientation.When selecting the option for your sexuality or homosexuality, you can select amongst "bisexual", "lesbian", "straight", "not sure" or "no answer," but there is no option to select "gay."Gay refers to homosexuals in general but sometimes gay can be used to refer only to homosexual men. Lesbian generally only refers to homosexual women.According to an Internet report, it was removed some time ago, after News Corporation bought MySpace. Rupert Murdoch is in charge of News Corporation and last year said that he was "homophobic and crazy" on the issue of gay marriage.Despite the report, MySpace says that they did not know about Murdoch's views on homosexuality and calls the incident a bug, which was supposed to be fixed during the overnight hours of May 3.  As of the May 5 the situation is unchanged."Some people have asked about the missing orientation option for 'gay' on edit profile. That's a bug that should be fixed later tonight... No, MySpace does not hate gay people.. duh," said a message posted on user's MySpace account pages by the site's founder Tom Anderson.Brazilian plastic artist Alexandre Linhares has written and is producing a 75 minutes play titled Jesus pra Cristo (Jesus for Christ), containing homosexual themes and inspired  by the rock opera Jesus Christ Superstar  by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber. In the play, Mary, the mother of Jesus is a transexual, Jesus is a punk revolting against the society, Mary Magdalene is a drug dealer, prostitute and homosexual, James is HIV positive and homosexual.  The cast includes homosexual and transexual actors.The plot begins with a 15 years old transexual (Mary) who sees a angel announcing she will conceive the Savior of the World.  Later, Jesus begins to do miracles during World War III. Followers go after him. Jesus is charged with anarchism and condemned to death. Alexandre Linhares, the author, tells how the play  idea was born:Since I was a child  I loved the play Opera-Rock Jesus Christ Superstar. Even my blog is after that name. I loved all the scenes of the film and I always wanted to see the spectacle at  Broadway... However, the play that is scheduled to March originated during a time where my life was in a big turmoil, and  I decided to post in my blog my idea about creating a play, based in that musical. The play is scheduled to open March, 18, as part of the Theater Festival of Curitiba.Gay Talese wants to go to Iraq.  "It so happens there is someone that's working on such a thing right now for me," the 75-year-old legendary journalist and author told David Shankbone.  "Even if I was on Al-Jazeera with a gun to my head, I wouldn't be pleading with those bastards! I'd say, 'Go ahead. Make my day.'"Few reporters will ever reach the stature of Talese.  His 1966 profile of Frank Sinatra, Frank Sinatra Has a Cold, was not only cited by The Economist as the greatest profile of Sinatra ever written, but is considered the greatest of any celebrity profile ever written.  In the 70th anniversary issue of Esquire in October 2003, the editors declared the piece the "Best Story Esquire Ever Published."Talese helped create and define a new style of literary reporting called New Journalism.  Talese himself told National Public Radio he rejects this label ("The term new journalism became very fashionable on college campuses in the 1970s and some of its practitioners tended to be a little loose with the facts. And that's where I wanted to part company.")  He is not bothered by the Bancrofts selling The Wall Street Journal—"It's not like we should lament the passing of some noble dynasty!"—to Rupert Murdoch, but he is bothered by how the press supported and sold the Iraq War to the American people.  "The press in Washington got us into this war as much as the people that are controlling it," said Talese.  "They took information that was second-hand information, and they went along with it."  He wants to see the Washington press corp disbanded and sent around the country to get back in touch with the people it covers; that the press should not be so focused on--and in bed with--the federal government.  Augusten Burroughs once said that writers are experience junkies, and Talese fits the bill.  Talese--who has been married to Nan Talese (she edited James Frey's Million Little Piece) for fifty years--can be found at baseball games in Cuba or the gay bars of Beijing, wanting to see humanity in all its experience.Below is Wikinews reporter David Shankbone's interview with Gay Talese.A team from the China Agricultural University is reporting success after transferring human genes into a herd of 300 dairy cows. The cows now produce milk containing proteins associated with human breast milk.Human milk is beneficial to infants due to its high nutrient concentration. Formula milk offers an alternative to breastfeeding, but critics feel it is inferior and the research team hopes genetically modified cows could provide a solution. "Within 10 years, people will be able to pick up these products at the supermarket," claims Professor Ning Li, research leader and head of the university's State Key Laboratory for AgroBiotechnology. "We aim to commercialize some research in this area in coming three years."The new research, published in the journal Public Library of Science One, named three human proteins present in the cows' milk. Lysozyme protects babies from bacteria, lactoferrin boosts the cells in an infant's immune system and alpha-lactalbumin was also present. All are found in human breast milk."Our study describes transgenic cattle whose milk offers the similar nutritional benefits as human milk," Li wrote in the journal. "The modified bovine milk is a possible substitute for human milk. It fulfilled the conception of humanising the bovine milk." The cows are otherwise identical to normal cows and were produced by introducing the genes to cloned embryos, which were then reared by surrogate mothers.The laws surrounding genetically modified food research are tighter in Europe than China, but similar products have been sold legally in the United States for years. European consumers often avoid genetically modified foods, and therefore some supermarkets avoid stocking them.European campaigners are concerned about food safety and animal welfare; the Chinese team performed two studies on a total of 42 transgenic calves. Ten died soon after birth and six more did not survive beyond six months. It is not fully understood why survival and development is affected by cloning, which is used in the genetic modification process, but researchers concede it does happen.The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, a UK organisation, said it is "extremely concerned" by the development. A spokesperson for the organisation said: "Offspring of cloned animals often suffer health and welfare problems, so this would be a grave concern. Why do we need this milk — what is it giving us that we haven't already got?" A University of Nottingham professor specializing in genetic modification, Keith Campbell, rejected food safety concerns. "Genetically modified animals and plants are not going to be harmful unless you deliberately put in a gene that is going to be poisonous," he said. "Why would anyone do that in a food?" The Chinese team says cow welfare will be improved as they will be better able to fight udder infection with human proteins.On the eve of Australia's national day celebrations, Prime Minister Julia Gillard announced Geoffrey Rush's receipt of this year's Australian of the Year award. Presenting the accolade to Rush on the lawn of Parliament House, Gillard cited his "outstanding achievements in a lifelong  career on the stage and screen and long term commitment to the Australian arts"; Rush is one of only a handful of actors with a claim to the 'Triple crown of acting', having won Tony, Emmy and Academy awards..Marita Cheng, a 22 year old engineering advocate — and student at the University of Melbourne, is the new Young Australian of the Year. Chosen for her "leadership in the occupational landscape for women by encouraging girls to pursue engineering studies and careers", Cheng founded Robogals Global in 2008 to address low participation by women in technologically-oriented fields.Laurie Baymarrwangga, an elder from the island of Murrungga in East Arnhem Land, Northern Territory, is the new Senior Australian of the Year. Cited for her "extraordinary commitment to maintaining her culture, the environment of her beloved Crocodile Islands and ensuring younger generations continue to keep their heritage alive", she initiated the Yan-nhangu dictionary project, and still continues to support the now-online project; aged in her nineties, and not knowing English when she launched her project, Baymarrwangga was unable to attend the ceremony.Lynne Sawyers of Darbys Falls was named Australia's Local Hero. A foster mother to over 200 children and, as laid-out in her citation, "for 15 years, she has been on call to care for lost, abused and bewildered children in heartbreaking circumstances."Over 5,000 nominations contended for this year's awards.The President of the United States, George W. Bush, and his wife Laura Bush have introduced the 2008 White House egg roll. Mrs. Bush introduced the attendees to the event by saying "welcome, everybody, to the White House Easter Egg Roll, the 2008 Easter Egg Roll. This event is one of the happiest traditions on the White House lawn. It's always fun to see the South Lawn filled with children. Thank you for coming. And I'd especially like to thank our entertainers, our readers, our volunteers, and our special guests."M. Bush dedicated the event to cleaning oceans. "We [the Bush family] want to remind you that we're dedicating today's Easter Egg Roll to our clean oceans. And there's a booth here where you can find out how you can contribute to make sure that we're environmentally sound stewards of our oceans. Ocean conservation is a important aspect of good public service, and it's certainly something that Laura has on her mind, as she comes up to address you," he said.7,500 eggs are being provided for 2008 egg roll, with the White House estimating before the event that 22,000 people will attend this year.Bertie Ahern, the Prime Minister of Ireland visited the White House Monday to commemorate St. Patrick's Day. Mr. Ahern makes this visit annually, for what he calls a "very substantial and useful meeting." Mr. Ahern started his speech by saying "Mr. President and Mrs. Bush, thank you for the welcome and honor which you've extended to our delegation, and to all the Irish guests, from North and from South, who are here at the White House this morning to mark St. Patrick's Day, Ireland's National Day. I'm very grateful, Mr. President, for the opportunity which we have just had to hold a very substantial and useful meeting with you in the Oval Office. We appreciate it, and we appreciate the amount of time that you've given to us."Mr. Bush commented on the relationship between the US and Ireland, saying that "we've [the US and Ireland have] had a long relationship, Taoiseach. Our history has been one where the United States and Ireland have made liberty our common cause, and both of our nations are richer for it. Our partnership is based upon principles, and it's also based upon people. Ireland founded itself -- found itself in the grip of poverty and famine in the 19th century, and millions of Irish came here to our soil. They were drawn here by a promise that success would be attainable to all those who were willing to work hard. And that's certainly what happened.""And that's what we celebrate on St. Patrick's Day. Our countries are more than just partners, we are family, Taoiseach. And today more than 35 million Americans claim Irish ancestry. America is richer for every Murphy, Kelly, and O'Sullivan. I should have said McCain --  Well, I just did. After all, this history together, the United States and the Republic of Ireland continue to stand side by side in firm friendship. We were friends in the past, we're friends today, and, Taoiseach, I am confident, after my time in office, the next President will be friends with Ireland. We are cooperating to build prosperous economies and vibrant trade and sound investment between our countries," continued Mr. Bush. The mentions of McCain in this article were both followed by laughter and applause from the audience.Mr. Ahern also commented on the resolution to the conflicts that had been troubling Ireland for many years. He said that "we [the people of Ireland] are all glad to say, and enormously pleased and proud to stand here and say that we've achieved peace in Ireland. It's a peace that I firmly believe will endure to future generations."George Entwistle became the new Director-General of the BBC Monday. He replaces Mark Thompson, who had held the position since 2004.On the BBC's Andrew Marr Show, Thompson said Sunday the corporation was "getting very, very close to the edge" following recent sixteen per cent real-terms budget reductions. "When you look around the operation, it's very hard to see what more you can cut," he said.Negotiations about the UK's licence fee are a prominent issue for Entwistle to deal with between 2015–2016. The licence fee in the country currently stands at £145.50 (about US$236 or €181) per house. Two years ago, Thompson froze this fee for six years, causing BBC funding to decrease by sixteen per cent in real terms.Thompson is due in November to become the chief executive officer of The New York Times Company.Entwistle is a former director of BBC Vision, thereby being responsible for the television output of the corporation."There's no question that we've seen over the last eight years, not just with the BBC but with the whole of public life, a real change in attitudes to these things [re licence fees], and we've tried to respond to it," said Entwistle. "I think the BBC will continue to wrestle with that challenge. How do you get the best sports rights, the best presenters, and the best creative leaders, and do that in a way that is acceptable to the public."The salary of Entwistle, who is scheduled to meet with programme creators and staff at the BBC this week, will reportedly be £450,000 (US$730,000 or €560,000), considerably less than that of Thompson who, in his final year, made £622,000 (US$1,009,000 or €773,000). While he was in office, Thompson's salary dropped by approximately a quarter."I think [Entwistle] cares deeply about the BBC", said Michael Grade, once chairman of the BBC. He further told BBC Radio 5 Live's Stephen Nolan: "I think he's intelligent enough to know how difficult the job is — some would say the job is like being Prime Minister; it's almost impossible. But I think his whole life has been a preparation for this and I think he will carry the respect of the staff because editorially he's accomplished. I think he'll be a huge success."When the decision was announced to appoint Entwistle in July, Chris Patten, chairman of the BBC Trust, said of him: "His experience of making and delivering great programmes that audiences love — built up through many years of working for the Corporation — will prove invaluable as he and his team work to ensure the BBC remains the greatest broadcaster in the world."File:Mazher Mahmood2.jpgGeorge Galloway, an MP in the British Parliament for Bethnal Green and Bow, has won a court battle allowing him to publish photos of the infamous News of the World "fake sheikh", undercover reporter Mazher Mahmood famed for setting up high-profile figures. George Galloway had a meeting with the reporter after being approached via a contact. Over dinner at the Dorchester hotel, Mazher is said by George Galloway to have asked leading questions over political party funding and to have solicited anti-semitic remarks. George Galloway became ever more suspicious, especially after seeing that the reporter's driver had a 'mouthful of gold teeth', as described in journalist Andrew Marr's book.After threatening to release a photograph of the reporter, who has in the past tried hard to keep his identity secret, the News of the World sought an injunction against publication, claiming that they feared for his safety, and lost.In a post on the Guardian newspaper's Comment is Free weblog, George Galloway said that Mazher "has crossed the cusp of reputable journalism into seeking to procure criminal acts".According to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, toxicology reports reveal that the former pro-wrestler Chris Benoit had ten times the normal level of testosterone as well as hydrocodone (a painkiller), and Xanax (an anti-anxiety medication).Benoit also reportedly tested negative for alcohol.Benoit's wife, Nancy Benoit also tested positive for Xanax, and the painkiller hydromorphone. Benoit's son Daniel could not be tested due to a lack of urine samples, but Dr. Kris Sperry, the medical examiner who performed the autopsies on the bodies says that "Daniel Benoit was sedated at the time he died" and that "there's no reason why a seven-year-old child would be taking Xanax."Federal authorities have charged Dr. Phil Astin with improperly dispensing medication painkillers and other drugs to two other patients. Astin has pleaded not guilty.Rev. Mary Magdalen (Rachel Bevilacqua) of the Church of the SubGenius, a postmodern or parody religion, lost custody of her child in February of 2006, seemingly due to her involvement with the church.  Church members are touting the judge's response to her involvement with the church together with his decision as religious discrimination, and the ACLU is examining the situation.Judge James Punch (Orleans County) allegedly denied custody of the child her son out of anger, after seeing videos of Rev. Magdalen in a bondage "dress" and papier maché goat’s head at the church's X-Day celebration and performance art piece.  Judge Punch repeatedly asked, "Why a goat? What’s so significant about a goat’s head?"  When Rev. Magdalen replied, "I just thought the word 'goat' was funny," the court then pressed her to explain how her actions were funny, finally concluding with the statement, "Obviously there's nothing funny in those pictures."According to Rev. Magdalen, the judge reportedly lost his temper and shouted at her, calling her a "pervert," "mentally ill," "lying," and a participant in "sex orgies."  Proponents of her case have been working to make the actual transcript of this statement available online.Judge Punch ordered that Rev. Magdalen is to have absolutely no further contact with her son, not even in writing, after February 3, 2006.  On March 9th, the judge issued a verbal order stating that Rev. Magdalen was to cease all communication on the Internet regarding her son, thereby preventing her from posting transcripts of the actual court proceedings (however, a transcript of her own testimony was made available on March 26th).Rev. Magdalen has been a major figure in the Church of the SubGenius since 1997 when she and her son moved to Dallas, Texas to be with her fiancé Rev . Jesus (Steve Bevilacqua) and help keep the for-profit church afloat.  The church members traditionally consider the for-profit arm to have "religious significance", due in part to the church's intentional parody of Scientology and New Age religions, and the church declares itself to be "the only religion that is proud to pay its taxes."  The Bevilacquas relocated to Columbus in 2004.Religions or deities engaging in satire, such as the Church of the SubGenius, Discordianism, the Invisible Pink Unicorn, and the Flying Spaghetti Monster, have become significantly more widespread through the internet.  However, the Church of the SubGenius is relatively old, dating to 1979, and gained much of its current popularity through its published books, including the Book of the SubGenius, and its Hour of Slack radio program.  Discordianism is even older, dating to 1958 or 1959, and has strongly influenced modern non-satirical neopagan religions.  Such religions are now generally termed "postmodern" instead of "parody", as their followers frequently insist the religion is as real and valid as any other religion, but often accept the postmodernist critique of religious metanarratives.Rev. Magdalen's case has been profiled on a number of popular blogs and Internet sites, including Boing Boing and Fark.Following the word of this case being spread on the Internet, Judge Punch recused himself without comment.  The case is being re-assigned to another judge, and Rev. Magdalen will return to court next month.A Georgian television station sparked panic today when it broadcast a report containing a simulation of events that might occur if Russia invaded Georgia in an event similar to a war that took place a year and a half ago.The fake report came only 18 months after a war between Georgia and Russia, and the broadcast, run by Imedi TV, was composed of footage from that conflict, as well as recorded statements from Russian and Georgian leaders.  Such footage included "reports" that Russian forces had bombed Georgian military bases and a civilian airport in the capital of Tbilisi. Additionally, the report claimed that Russian forces had killed Georgian soldiers in South Ossieta, the site of the 2008 war.According to the network, the intention of the broadcast had been to show what could have happened if Russia had invaded again and killed Georgia's president.  To this end, the broadcast was bookended at the beginning and end with a notice that the events were a simulation of possible events.  The network did not, however, run such notes during the program itself, and many who watched it became alarmed by the events it covered.  According to one local news agency, Georgian emergency services had received a spike in the number of phone calls during the time the broadcast was on air. Around two hours after the program finished, the network began running scrolling text on further programs, apologizing for the broadcast, and the head of Imedi's parent company issued a statement apologizing for the "distress" that the broadcast had caused.  Despite the apologies, which included one from a Georgian official, the reaction to the broadcast was generally one of opposition and anger.  The leader of the Georgian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Ilia II, issued a statement saying that, "This kind of experiment is a crime to our people and to humanity," and an opposition politician labeled the report as "disgusting."  One woman who had been affected by the 2008 conflict said that, "it wasn't right of them to do it."Antisa Khvichava, a woman from the country of Georgia, is said to be celebrating her 130th birthday, which would make her the oldest known person on Earth, past or present.Reportedly born in 1880, documents state that Khvichava picked corn and tea for a living in 1965, at the age of 85.  Prior to Khvichava, the record holder for the oldest known person to have lived on the planet was Jeanne Calment of France, who lived to be 122 years old. If confirmed, Khvichava would take the top spot with an eight year lead. The Justice Ministry in Georgia backs up her claim, but it was not independently verified by the Gerontology Research Group and her birth certificate was lost.Khvichava lives in a small village in Sachino, in the Tsalenjikha district with her entire family, including her 70-year-old son Mikhail, who was apparently born when his mother was 60 years old, 10 of her grandchildren, 12 great-grandchildren and her other six great-great-grandchildren."I've always been healthy, and I've worked all my life — at home and at the farm," said Khvichava to the Associated Press. Although she spends most of her time in bed, Khvichava can walk without aid, but has some difficulties. Despite her age, her family says she is "clear minded" and can "think rationally."Erwin Geschonneck, German actor died Wednesday. He was 101. His biggest success occurred in the German Democratic Republic, where he was considered one of the most famous actors of the time.He was born on December 27, 1906 in Bartenstein, Germany. In 1938, he was arrested in Prague and was imprisoned in several concentration camps. In 1945, Geschonneck was evacuated from the concentration camp Neuengamme on the boat Cap Arcona, which was subsequently attacked by the RAF and sunk. He was one of the few prisoners who survived.Immediately following the war, Geschonneck acted in theaters in Hamburg, Germany, and made his film debut in 1947 in In jenen Tagen.His last movie, made in 1995 for the German television network ARD, was "Matulla und Busch", where he played alongside veteran actor Fred Delmare. Geschonneck's son, Matti Geschonneck, directed.White smoke appeared today at 5.50 p.m. local time over the Sistine Chapel in Rome - the first sign that a new Pope had been elected by the Conclave of Cardinals. A few minutes later, the bells of St. Peter's Basilica began ringing, confirming the election. Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger had been selected as the successor to Pope John Paul II as the 265th Pope of the Roman Catholic Church, and will be known as Pope Benedict XVI.The conclave of 115 cardinals started the process of electing a new Pope on Monday, April 18. However, it has taken two days for the required two thirds majority to be reached.The new Pope appeared to the public within an hour of the first announcement. He appeared on the central balcony of St. Peter's Basilica and delivered a short address to the crowd in Italian.  Tens of thousands of people were in St Peter's Square to observe the results of the election.The election of Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger follows the death of Pope John Paul II on April 2.German Composer of contemporary classical music Harald Genzmer died last week in Munich, Germany. He was 98 years old.Born on February 9, 1909 in Blumenthal, near Bremen, Germany, he studied composition with Paul Hindemith at the Berlin Hochschule für Music beginning in 1928.In 1938 he taught at the Volksmusikschule Berlin-Neukölln. During the second world war he served as a clarinetist.From 1946 to 1957 he taught at the Musikhochschule in Freiburg im Breisgau. From 1957 to 1974 he taught at the Munich Hochschule für Musik.Among his notable students was the Egyptian composer Gamal Abdel-Rahim.German director Christoph Schlingensief has died at the age of 49. His death was announced by Oliver Golloch, a spokesman for the Ruhrtriennale festival. Schlingensief had been suffering from lung cancer but no official cause of death was given by the spokesman.The film and theatre director worked on several films, plays, and operas throughout his controversial career.  Schlingensief directed films such as "100 Years of Adolf Hitler" and "The German Chainsaw Massacre".  He was arrested in 1997 for his exhibition of work called "Kill Helmut Kohl", aimed at the then Chancellor.Besides plays shown in Germany, Schlingensief also worked in Austria and Switzerland.  He was the director of the Richard Wagner festival in both Bayreuth, Germany and Brazil.During his time working in Bayreuth he said "Bayreuth will give me cancer." Coincidently, four years later Schlingensief was diagnosed with lung cancer even though he was a non-smoker.Despite the cancer he continued to work on plays and films often watching them from a hospital bed. He married costume designer Anio Laberenz and founded an opera project in the African country of Burkina Faso with funding from the German government, all while battling the disease.Bernd Neumann, Germany's state commissioner for culture, paid tribute to Schlingensief. He said Schlingensief "had had an immense influence on German-language film and theater". Mayor of Berlin, Klaus Wowereit said on Saturday that "a major talent in theater has left the stage."Schlingensief is survived by his wife, Anio. No funeral plans have been released yet.Knut, Germany's famous polar bear, turned one at the Berlin Zoo yesterday. For the celebration he had a healthy cake with fruits and vegetables, fish and rice on lettuce topped with a candle-shaped rolling pin.The director of the zoo, Bernhard Blaszkiewitz, said: "I wish Knut that he will get as old as polar bears are supposed to get. So minimum 30 to 40 years, and that he finds a partner." The way he looks and because he comes from Berlin, he will reproduce well, Blaszkiewitz said. Along with this, he referred to the high birth rate in Berlin.When Knut was born a year ago, he was rejected by his mother Tosca. Keeper Thomas Dörflein took a parental role and reared Knut by hand. After a few months, Knut grew big and Thomas Dörflein could no longer play with him because he received bad bruises. At birth, Knut weighed 1.8 pounds, today, he weighs 220 pounds. Adult male polar bears can weigh up to 800 pounds.Knut was the first polar bear born at the Berlin Zoo in 30 years. Millions of people came to see him from all over the world and the event which was dubbed "Knutmania" spawned a CD, a book and hour-long queues at the zoo.German rock and metal label GUN Records (Great Unlimited Noises) announced Friday that they were to close. No explanation has been given for the move.Formed as a joint venture between BMG and Wolfgang Funk in 1992, the label had seen its parent merge with Sony in 2005 to form Sony BMG and Funk quit as president in December 2008. In the nineties the label worked with German metal bands such as U.D.O., Sodom and Running Wild.GUN's current international acts - including Wales' Bullet for My Valentine, Finland's Lordi and the Netherlands' Within Tempatation - will now be handled out of Sony's Munich international division. National artists, such as Oomph! and The Donots, will also be Sony's direct responsibility via either Four Music or Columbia Germany in Berlin.The label has also worked with Sturm und Drang, Apocalyptica and HIM. The closure will affect eight employees including Arno Hartfield, the managing director.A civilian known as 'Jimmy Justice' who resides in New York City (NYC), New York, the largest city in the United States, has been videotaping NYC police officers and city workers, breaking the law while on the job.Since 2007, he claims to have caught "hundreds of officers and other city employees violating the law," and says he has them all on camera. He has posted his best confrontations with them to the video sharing website YouTube. As a result, Justice states that he has been asked to do a United States television show and Wikinews got an exclusive interview with him. For protection, Justice wished not to be called by his real name in fear of police retaliation.Last year, Justice videotaped a police officer parking in front of a fire hydrant, but has only recently gained attention on social networking news sites such as Digg and reddit.com. So Wikinews contacted Mr. Justice, known as JimmyJustice4753 on YouTube, for an exclusive interview to find out what caused him to get revenge on the law. On June 30, 2007, Justice caught officer E. Anderson of the NYPD, traffic division, parking directly in front of a fire hydrant while she went inside a restaurant to take a 15 minute lunch break."Do you think there is something wrong with parking a vehicle, blocking a fire hydrant,?" says Justice while following Anderson to her car after her meal."Mrs. Anderson I'm talking to you," says Justice as Anderson ignores him. "You parked your vehicle blocking a fire hydrant. You are not allowed to do that. Somebody else would get a ticket for that. Why are you allowed to do it? You should be ashamed of yourself Mrs. Anderson."By this time, the incident has gained the interest of people nearby the scene and passing it. One unidentified woman, who claims to be a retired NYC police officer decides to intervene stating that people "are not supposed to film any police, [or] anybody employed with the police department because of the terrorism." A short time later the woman walked off camera.Since 2007 Justice says he has caught "hundreds of law enforcement officers and city officials" on "over 30 hours of video" violating laws from illegal U-turns in business districts to blocking bus stops and fire hydrants. Justice has only uploaded the "most colorful ones to YouTube" and recently, on April 8, 2008, Justice videotaped a NYPD tow truck officer blocking a hydrant while he also ate lunch inside a restaurant. According to NYC law, it is illegal for any vehicle to park within 15 feet of a fire hydrant and to park in front of a bus stop. It is also illegal for any person to make a U-turn in a business district. Fines for these violations can cost a driver up to US$115.00 for each violation occurred.When Wikinews asked Justice why he decided to start filming the violations made by officials he answered, "what bothers me is watching an officer write someone a summons and then commit the exact same violation with their official vehicle. I started making these videos to remind the officers (and complacent civilians) that City employees have to abide by the same laws that they are paid to enforce. I plan on doing this and inspiring others to do this as well as a means of leveling the playing field against discourteous officers.""In NYC, the traffic cops are notorious for their draconian indiscretion in handing out summonses to civilians for petty violations. Obviously the laws are not enforced as a matter of public safety, but rather to raise revenue," added Justice.Justice makes little effort to get the violations on videotape saying "all I have to do to catch them is open my eyes.""The problem with abuse of authority is rampant in New York City. I take my video camera with me on the way to work and on the way to social events and band rehearsals and when I see action it takes me less than 4 seconds to have the camera out and in record mode," states Justice.His videos have drawn the attention of media and he has been featured on ABC's 'I-caught videos' and Inside Edition. Justice also states that the popularity of his videos have gotten the attention producers in Hollywood, California and as a result, there are plans for a television show.Since Justice began getting even with officials and their violations, he states that there has been a positive change in the communities."The publicity my videos have received has effected positive change in the community, but we still have a long road ahead of us," added Justice.As a result of his videos, at the time the NYPD launched an investigation into the violations, but it is not known if any officers were charged or punished. Justice himself has never been arrested, but has been assaulted."I have never been arrested for this yet but they have threatened me with arrest. I have been spit on, cursed at, assaulted, and I had 2 cameras broken already," added Justice.The first female Chief Justice of Ghana, Georgina Theodora Wood was among 77 others who received national awards in Accra today. The awards are for distinguished services to Ghana.Georgina Wood, who became Chief Justice on June 15, 2007, received her award from President John Kufuor. She was given the Order of the Star of Ghana, the nation's highest award. Two others who received this award as well were Dr Paul Acquah, Governor of the Bank of Ghana and the Omanhene (King) of the Juaben Traditional Area, Nana Otuo Serebour II, a former head of Ghana's Statistical Service, for his contribution to industry and public service (traditional category).President Kufuor is quoted as saying at the award ceremony that  "Like the Olympic medalist, we should seek to surpass existing limits to set new records hitherto deemed unattainable. This way, Africa, including Ghana, can excel in the competition and thereby carve a dignified niche for itself in the Global Village."As Dr. Paul Acquah received the award, the audience shouted "The value is the same" which is the catchphrase for the Ghanaian cedi redenomination in process at present. Nana Otuo Serebour did a short Adowa dance much to the admiration of the audience. The loudest ovation was however reserved for Georgina Wood as she received her award. Professor Atukwei Okai, a writer, poet and educationist, recited a poem which translates as "You are because we are".Other awards given out were the in the Order of the Volta (Companion), Order of the Volta (Member) and the Grand Medal categories. Among the winners were Paul Victor Obeng, influential member of Jerry Rawlings' military government in the 1990s, Dr G.K. Agama, a former governor of the Bank of Ghana,  Ike Quartey, former WBA welterweight champion. Some popular musicians, including Nana Kwame Ampadu, Kofi Ghanaba, Diana Akiwumi, Pat Thomas and Sidiku Buari also received honours.Best-known for directing Braveheart, Mel Gibson had trouble with police early in the morning on July 28. While he was stopped for speeding and driving drunk, he is said to have shouted a tirade against Jews.No transcripts of this interview launched in ABC's Good Morning America are officially available but, before its broadcast scheduled on October 12 and 13th, some communities wanted to know more about it.Earlier in the week Robin Williams emphatized about the positive effect of this story saying he will follow the same alcohol dexintoxication process as Mel.Yesterday, Ruth Bader Ginsburg became the first United States Supreme Court justice to officiate a same-sex marriage.  The ceremony took place in the District of Colombia, in the atrium of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The center's President  Michael M. Kaiser married economist John Roberts before a group of around 200 guests.Ginsburg is quoted by the Washington Post as saying of her officiating, "I think it will be one more statement that people who love each other and want to live together should be able to enjoy the blessings and the strife in the marriage relationship [...] It won’t be long before there will be another". The Supreme Court Justice is scheduled to officiate at another same-sex wedding ceremony later this month between David Hagedorn and director of communications and executive affairs for the National Weather Service Michael Widomski.Justices occasionally perform marriages, often for those who have clerked for them. Ginsburg suggested same-sex couples hadn't requested justices marry them before lest their involvement interfere if and when the issue came before the Supreme Court.  Opposite-sex marriages officiated by members of the Supreme Court included Ginsburg officiating at her son's wedding, and Justice Clarence Thomas officiating at one of Rush Limbaugh's weddings.Ginsburg was among the justices siding with the majority in two cases dealing with same-sex marriage that came before the Supreme Court this year.Same-sex marriage is legal in thirteen US states and the District of Colombia.  It is also legal in or in parts of seventeen other countries.Campaign group Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) has announced the nominees for this year's GLAAD Media Awards. The awards are for films and television programs that present a "fair, accurate and inclusive representations of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community".Gus Van Sant's biopic Milk, starring Sean Penn as the gay title character Harvey Milk, is nominated in the film category along with Woody Allen's Vicky Cristina Barcelona, Julian Jarrold's version of Evelyn Waugh's Brideshead Revisited, Guy Richie's RocknRolla and Peter Sollett's Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist.British Doctor Who spin off Torchwood joins American series such as Brothers and Sisters, The L Word and True Blood in the television drama category while Channel 4's Skins is nominated for best comedy with ABC's Desperate Housewives and Ugly Betty amongst others.Special awards are to be given to Tyra Banks, Suze Orman and Lucia Mendez as well as Sirius XM Radio's documentary The Laramie Project, 10 Years Later: The Lasting Legacy of Matthew Shepard. Macy's, Absolut Vodka and IKEA are nominated for positive advertisements and The Denver Post and The Des Moines Register are amongst the nominated newspapers.The GLAAD Media Awards have been presented annually since 1990.Coinciding with Easter Sunday, Glasgow Cannabis Social Club's annual 420 event was held on Glasgow Green, under sunny blue skies, and overlooking the river Clyde. Despite the city's council attempting to revoke permission for the gathering at the last minute, police were happy for it to go-ahead with approximately a dozen officers attending in high-visibility vests.The Daily Record reported five arrests were made for minor offences, likely smoking and possession of small quantities of cannabis. Taking a less-sensational —  and more accurate — line of reporting, the Monday edition of Glasgow's Evening News stated five were referred to the Procurator Fiscal who is responsible for deciding if charges should be brought.Official figures provided by the police were that 150 attended. With people coming and going, Wikinews reporters estimated upwards of 200 attended, compared to nearly 700 who had signed up for the event on Facebook. Hemp goods were advertised and on sale at the event, and some attendees were seen drinking cannabis-themed  energy drinks."I was searched and charged under the Misuse of Drugs Act (which is a lot of bollocks)" one attendee noted online, adding "not fair to happen on a brilliant day like it was, other than that I had a great day!" A second said they were openly smoking and ignored by police, who "were only really focusing on people who looked particularly young".Cannabis seeds were openly and legally sold at the event and a hydroponics supplier brought a motortrike  towing an advertising trailer. Actually growing cannabis is, however, illegal in the UK.With the event openly advocating the legalisation of cannabis, speakers put their arguments for this to a receptive crowd. Retired police officer James Duffy, of Law Enforcement Against Prohibition, spoke of the failed United States alcohol prohibition policy; stressing such policies needlessly bring people into contact with criminal elements. Highlighting other countries where legalisation has been implemented, he pointed out such led to lower crime, and lower drug use overall.One speaker, who produced a bottle of cannabis oil he had received through the post, asserted this cured his prostate cancer. Others highlighted the current use of Sativex by the National Health Service, with a cost in-excess of £150 for a single bottle of GW Pharmaceuticals patented spray — as-compared to the oil shown to the crowd, with a manufacturing cost of approximately £10.Similar '420' pro-cannabis events were held globally.Glasgow —Last weekend, December 8, The Reid Foundation, a left-leaning think-tank, launched The Common Weal, a vision for a more socially just and inclusive post-Independence Scotland. Five- to six-hundred turned up for the event, billed as "[a] 'revolution' ... with T-shirts and dancing" by the Sunday Herald, and held in The Arches club and theatre, under Glasgow's Central Street Station.Wikinews' Brian McNeil travelled to Glasgow to attend, walking through the city's festively decorated George Square, and busy shopping streets, to the venue under Hielanman's Umbrella.More known for theatre, live music, and club nights, organisers in The Arches confirmed around 800 had signed up for the free Sunday afternoon event. The crowd was a mix of all ages, including families with young childen. Stuart Braithwaite of Mogwai entertained the early arrivals by DJ-ing until the launch video for the Common Weal was screened.The Common Weal present themselves as "an emerging movement which is developing a vision for economic and social development in Scotland which is distinct and different from the political orthodoxy that dominates politics and economics in London." Contrasting current "me first politics" against concerns of ordinary Scots, the launch video's opening, monochrome half, stresses everyday common concerns: "Will I have a pension I can survive on when I retire?", "I miss my local library", "Public transport is so bad it's hard to get to work"; and, "Why can we always find money to bail out banks but not to protect public services?", "Why is it always the poor, the disabled, and immigrants who get the blame?"The preferred vision offered by the Common Weal, "Not me first, all of us first", makes up the more-aspirational second-half of the film, advocating a national fund for industry, taking the nation's energy into collective ownership, building quality new public housing, strengthening the welfare state, and ending tax evasion. Throughout the event a distinction between these 'popular politics', which experience wide support, and the derogatory 'populist' label, often used to dismiss such calls for a fairer society, was emphasised.Comedienne Janey Godley took over following the film, to compère the afternoon, and introduce Reid Foundation director Robin McAlpine. With the mixed audience, Godley made avoiding profanity — due to the presence of children — a theme of her warm-up; although, the humour remained fairly adult in nature.McAlpine sketched out the movement's hopes and plans. After thanking those who were giving their time for free, he characterised modern politics as "[...] a game that is played by a small number of professionals, in a small number of rooms, in a small number of expensively-rented premises, across Scotland — and across Britain. It's become a thing people do as a profession, and the rest of us are all supposed to applaud them — or stand back — nod our heads every four years, and be glad for it." With a receptive audience, he continued: "The idea that politics is something that ordinary people cannae talk about is one of the great achievements of the right-wing [over] the last thirty to forty years in Britain"; remarking, to applause, "they scared us aff."  On discussions around the country, he claimed that "across Scottish politics, [...] the people that want this, ... 'me first' politics, there's not many of them. The people that want Common Weal politics, all of us first politics, I'm meeting them everywhere. [...] Everyone I meet wants this, a decent politics that puts people first. [...] We wanted to find a way to communicate an idea of a politics which work for all the people who those politics seek to govern, not just a few of them. People don't understand or recognise the language of politics any more, so we want to change that language.".Crediting the Sunday Herald newspaper for an opportunity to share some  ideas underpinning the Common Weal, McAlpine was scathing in his criticism of mainstream coverage of the independence debate: "There's this massive debate. It's not in the mainstream." Seeking to "get a real debate going, about a really strong vision for a future for Scotland, it's hard. They're still doing IFS, accounting this, and another paper from a Whitehall that. And, we'll all debate things that nobody really cares about, interminably, until they all go away for good." On the current political debate, he remarked: "If mainstream politics fails to recognise what is really going on in Scotland just now, then that is its problem. [...] Someone is going to offer ordinary people what they want, and when they do, everything will change."Urging the crowd to get involved, he said: "If we can create a popular politics, that ordinary people care about, and talk about, and work[s], we can take a grip of Scotland. We can decide the future politics of Scotland, and standing around waiting for professional politicians to,... disappoint us less than they always do, does not have to be the way we do this anymore." He concluded, "It genuinely is time for a politics that puts all of us first."Janey Godley took the microphone, as McAlpine left the stage to cheers and applause; joking about the 'rabble-rousing' tone of the speech she then introduced David Whyte of Tangent Design, creator of the Common Weal's logo.Whyte explained they hoped the simple image would come to represent the "all of us first" philosophy, and "a new way of doing things". He was not the first to jokingly remark that the four-line graphic — a triangle, with a balanced line on top of it — would be an easily-applied piece of graffiti.Politics, and the launch of the movement's logo, then took more of a back-seat; the rest of the event more in-keeping with having a party, and the festive decorations elsewhere around the city centre. Godley, and fellow Scottish joker Bruce Morton, provided more barbed comedy. Singer Karine Polwart encouraged the crowd to sing along to a song she said was written on her way to the party, and Actor Tam Dean Burn read a speech from the 16th century Scottish play "Satire of the three estates" — given by the character John Common Weal, representing the common man — where the deeds and behaviour of the ruling classes are such that, if done by a common man, they'd be hanged.Scotland's Independence referendum is to take place next year, September 18. This was a repeated election pledge of the Scottish National Party (SNP) — who moved from leading a minority government, to an outright majority in the devolved parliament's 2011 general election — making good on their promise by announcing in January 2011 their intent to hold the referendum in autumn 2014.The question being put to the electorate is: "Should Scotland be an independent country?" A "Yes" vote would be followed with negotiations to bring to an end the early eighteenth-century 'Union of the Parliaments'. The SNP has proposed Scotland retain Elizabeth II as head of state, a position she holds on the basis of the century-earlier Union of the Crowns.The Arctic Monkeys and Björk have been confirmed by the organisers of Glastonbury Festival to be the headliners at the 2007 event.Mr Eavis and co-organiser Emily Eavis told the BBC in an interview that the "biggest band in the world" had also contacted them about performing but denied that it was U2 or Coldplay .  He also added that "most of the line-up's now done" but it won't be released until after 1 April, the first date for ticket sales.The full line-up release date has not been set but Emily Eavis told the BBC website that it was "in the coming months"The application process for tickets has also been tightened with applicants having to first fill out a form online and supplying a photo. Then  "the first 150,000 people that come through (on the hotline) will be booked in" on the 1 April.  This process is all part of an attempt to stop ticket touts cashing in on the sell-out event.Top-seeded Glenbard East High School was expected to win the Class 4A Neuqua Valley High School Sectional championship on Friday night. Yet with a lot of determination and a strong defense, the Benet Academy varsity boys basketball team defeated the Rams 68–54. The game marks Benet's sixteenth straight victory this season, giving the Redwings a 26–3 overall record. It is also their first sectional championship since the 1982–1983 season, which was the last time Benet advanced to the Class AA state tournament; there they lost to Thornton Township High School in the quarterfinals.The Redwings' aggressive man-to-man defense certainly kept the Rams out of their comfort zone amidst the crowds in the sold-out Neuqua gym. As Benet forward Mike Runger said, "We made them play to their weaknesses instead of letting them get comfortable doing what they want to do.”Benet scored 71 percent of its shots in the first half, while Glenbard East scored only 27. While the Rams led twice in the first few minutes (3–0 and 7–5), the Redwings led 12–7 after the first quarter. A three-point shot made by Dave Sobolewski two seconds before the buzzer gave Benet a 27–16 lead at the end of the first half. Glenbard East desperately attempted a comeback in the second half, but Benet maintained a lead ranging from 10 to 18 points. Rams guard made four three-pointers in the fourth quarter, but to no avail. As Benet coach Gene Heidkamp said, "...we knew they were going to come at us and give us a ton of pressure. We were a long, long way from being comfortable at halftime."Benet will play Simeon Career Academy from Chicago in the supersectionals at Hinsdale Central High School on Tuesday night.American political commentator Glenn Beck has lost his case against a satirical website which parodies him, in a ruling from the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland. The website argued Beck's actions to shut it down were an attempt to silence free speech. On Friday, the website's creator sent a letter to Beck saying he would voluntarily turn over the domain name to him.Florida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics "to spread lies and misinformation". The website was represented in the case Beck v. Eiland-Hall by free speech lawyer Marc Randazza. Wikinews interviewed Randazza for the article "US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza discusses Glenn Beck parody", and previously reported on the case in articles, "US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck" and "Satirical website criticizes Glenn Beck for 'hypocritical' attempts to silence free speech".Eiland-Hall registered the website at the domain "www.GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlIn1990.com". Its premise was derived from a joke statement made by Gilbert Gottfried about fellow comedian Bob Saget. Users of the Internet discussion community Fark first applied the joke to Beck, and it then became popular on several social media sites. Eiland-Hall saw the discussion on Fark, and created a website about it. The website asserts it does not believe the rumors to be true, commenting, "[b]ut we think Glenn Beck definitely uses tactics like this to spread lies and misinformation." The website was created on September 1, and just two days later attorneys for Beck's company Mercury Radio Arts took action. Beck's lawyers sent letters to the domain name registrar where they referred to the domain name itself as "defamatory", but failed to get the site removed.Beck filed a formal complaint with the Switzerland-based agency of the United Nations, WIPO, who operate under regulations laid out by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. Beck asserted the website's usage is libelous, bad faith, and could confuse potential consumers. Beck's complaint was filed under the process called the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy. This policy allows trademark owners to begin an administrative action by complaining that a certain domain registration is in "bad faith". Beck argued the site should be shut down because it is an infringement upon his trademark in his own name, "Glenn Beck".Eiland-Hall retained Randazza as his attorney after receiving threatening letters from legal representatives of Beck. On September 28, Randazza filed a response brief to WIPO, contending the site is "protected political speech", due to it's "satirical political humor". Randazza stated, "even an imbecile would look at this Web site and know that it’s a parody." Randazza's brief commented on Beck's style of reporting, and highlighted a controversial statement made by him when interviewing a Muslim US Congressman. Beck said to Representative Keith Ellison, "I like Muslims, I've been to mosques. ... And I have to tell you, I have been nervous about this interview because what I feel like saying is, sir, prove to me that you are not working with our enemies." According to the Citizen Media Law Project, the website's joke premise takes advantage of "a perceived similarity between Beck's rhetorical style and the Gottfried routine".Randazza argued in the response filed on behalf of Eiland-Hall that Beck attempted to use the process of the WIPO court to infringe the free speech rights of his client; "Beck is attempting to use this transnational body to circumvent and subvert the Respondent's [web site owner] constitutional rights [to freedom of speech]," he wrote. Randazza cited the U.S. Supreme Court case, Hustler Magazine v. Falwell, in arguing that Beck's attorneys advised him against filing legal action in a U.S. court because the website would likely be seen as a form of parody and due to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, such legal action would not be successful.On September 29, Randazza sent a request to Beck's representatives, asking that their client agree to stipulate to the United States Constitution, and especially to the First Amendment, during the case before the WIPO. In the request, Randazza quoted a statement from Beck himself about the usage of international law by United States citizens, Beck said, "[o]nce we sign our rights over to international law, the Constitution is officially dead." In an October 19 interview with Wikinews, Randazza stated that Beck had not replied to his request to stipulate to the U.S. Constitution and the First Amendment in the WIPO case.On October 20, Randazza filed a surreply – a response document to an October 13 supplementary filing made by Beck in the case. Attorneys for Beck asserted in the supplementary filing that the joke made by the website is difficult to comprehend, and therefore the domain name is confusing. In Beck's supplementary filing, his lawyers argued, "While there is absolutely nothing humorous or amusing about the statement made by Respondent in his domain name that 'Glenn Beck Raped and Murdered a Young Girl in 1990,' the average Internet user finding the domain name GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlin1990.com ("Disputed Domain Name") in a search would have no reason not to believe that they will be directed to a website providing factual information (as opposed to protected criticism or similar protected speech) about Mr. Beck." Randazza's surreply asserted, "An average Internet user might not 'get the joke'. In fact, the average Internet user does not understand any internet memes. That's the fun of a meme - it is an esoteric inside joke that will leave most people scratching their heads." In Randazza's conclusion to the Eiland-Hall surreply, he called Beck "the butt" of a joke he apparently does not understand. Randazza wrote that Beck "should be deeply ashamed" for devaluing the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.For Beck to have prevailed in the case, the WIPO arbitrator would have needed to rule in his favor on three points: the domain name was confusing with the mark "Glenn Beck", the registrant Eiland-Hall did not have rights to the domain name, and that the domain name was registered as an act of "bad faith". Frederick M. Abbott, the WIPO arbitrator, did rule that the domain name was confusing, but also ruled that Eiland-Hall had legitimate interest in the domain name of the website he created. "Respondent appears to the Panel to be engaged in a parody of the style or methodology that Respondent appears genuinely to believe is employed by Complainant in the provision of political commentary, and for that reason Respondent can be said to be making a political statement. This constitutes a legitimate non-commercial use of Complainant’s mark under the Policy," said the WIPO ruling.The WIPO decision also commented on the matter of third-party websites which may have derived profit through links from Eiland-Hall's website, "While there is some evidence that at some stage third-party vendors of goods and services critical of [Beck] may have earned some income on sales of t-shirts and bumper stickers embodying political slogans based on click-throughs from [Eiland-Hall's] Web site, the panel does not believe this is sufficient 'commercial activity' to change the balance of interests already addressed," said the ruling.After the WIPO ruling, Eiland-Hall decided to voluntarily relinquish ownership of the domain name and hand it over to Glenn Beck. On Friday, Eiland-Hall sent a letter to Beck, and pointed out that Beck's actions only served to further increase publicity to the meme described on the website. "It bears observing that by bringing the WIPO complaint, you took what was merely one small critique meme, in a sea of internet memes, and turned it into a super-meme. Then, in pressing forward (by not withdrawing the complaint and instead filing additional briefs), you turned the super-meme into an object lesson in First Amendment principles," wrote Eiland-Hall in the letter to Beck. Eiland-Hall criticized Beck's actions with regard to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, writing, "It also bears noting, in this matter and for the future, that you are entirely in control of whether or not you are the subject of this particular kind of criticism. I chose to criticize you using the well-tested method of satire because of its effectiveness. But, humor aside, your rhetorical style is no laughing matter. In this context of this WIPO case, you denigrated the letter of First Amendment law. In the context of your television show and your notoriety, you routinely and shamelessly denigrate the spirit of the First Amendment". He stated that he persevered in the case in order to uphold the value of the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, "I want to demonstrate to you that I had my lawyer fight this battle only to help preserve the First Amendment. Now that it is safe, at least from you (for the time being), I have no more use for the actual scrap of digital real estate you sought..." A representative of Beck declined to provide a comment about the WIPO ruling, after a request from PC Magazine.Commentators likened the legal conflict between Beck and the site to the Streisand effect, a phenomenon where an individual's attempt to censor material on the Internet in turn proves to make the material itself more public. Wendy Davis of Online Media Daily commented on the impact of the case, "The decision appears to mark a significant win for digital rights advocates because a ruling in Beck's favor could have encouraged other subjects of online parodies to take their complaints directly to the WIPO rather than U.S. courts, which are bound by the First Amendment." Citizen Media Law Project's assistant director, Sam Bayard, wrote that the ruling was appropriate, "It's good to see that this WIPO arbitrator had no interest in allowing Beck to circumvent the guarantees of the U.S. Constitution."It has been announced that the global premiere of the Lordi horror movie Dark Floors will be on February 8 in Oulu, Finland. Lordi, a Finnish theatrical hard rock band, will also perform at the premiere.The event will take place at the Oulun Energia Areena, home of the Oulun Kärpät, a team in the SM-liiga, the Finnish National Hockey League. The premiere will be the nation's largest, and is a co-operative measure by Northern Film, Media Foundation POEM and Oulun Kärpät.The film is based on an original concept by director Pete Riski, who directed all Lordi music videos, and the band's frontman and lead vocalist. Made in English with a United Kingdom cast except for the band, Lordi appear in their famous monster costumes playing a group of monsters terrorising a group of people trapped in a hospital. Blabbermouth reports that the film is expected to become an international success.The end credits of the movie will feature the Lordi song Beast Loose in Paradise, which was released as a single late last month.Riski directed the film, which was produced by Markus Selin and written by Pekka Lehtosaari. The project started after an interview with Lordi's vocalist in which he suggested Selin contact him over an idea he had had for a film. Solar Films produced the film in co-operation with Northern Film, Media Foundation POEM and the North Finland Film Commission.Oulu is considered a good choice for the premiere, as it has a reputation amongst Finns as the "film-friendly town up north" and because Dark Floors was filmed there over the course of summer 2007. 5,000 people are expected to attend the premiere and accompanying show. Tickets became available today at www.Lippupalvelu.fi.The concept for Lordi was conceived in 1992, however, the band wasn't officially formed until 1996 by Tomi Putaansuu. Lordi won the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest with a record 292 points, giving Finland its first ever victory.The first comprehensive global study of sexual behaviour, published today as part of The Lancet's Sexual and Reproductive Health Online Series, found that people aren't losing their virginity at ever younger ages, married people have the most sex, and there is no firm link between promiscuity and sexually transmitted diseases.Experts say data gleaned from the study will be useful not only in dispelling popular myths about sexual behaviour, but in shaping policies that will help improve sexual health across the world. Researchers looked at previously published studies on sexual behaviour in the last decade.Professor Kaye Wellings, of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicines, and her colleagues analysed data on sexual behaviour in the last decade from 59 countries. The report also shows no support for the common notion that there is a culture of multiple sexual partners in countries with poor sexual health. Multiple sexual partners, it turns out, are more common in industrialised than in developing nations.The study also found that contrary to popular belief, sexual activity is not starting earlier. Nearly everywhere, men and women have their first sexual experiences in their late teens; from 15 to 19 years old — with generally younger ages for women than for men, especially in developing countries. "A single woman is more able to negotiate safe sex in certain circumstances than a married woman,"  said Paul van Look, director of Reproductive Health and Research at the World Health Organisation, who was unconnected to the study and points out that "married women in Africa and Asia are often threatened by unfaithful husbands who frequent prostitutes".There is much greater equality between women and men with regard to the number of sexual partners in rich countries than in poor countries, the study found. This imbalance has significant public health implications. Because of the diversity of sexual habits worldwide, Wellings warns that no single approach to sexual health will work everywhere. "There are very different economic, religious and social rules governing sexual conduct across the world," Wellings said.For example, men and women in Australia, Britain, France and the United States tend to have an almost equal number of sexual partners. In contrast, in Cameroon, Haiti, and Kenya, men tend to have multiple partners while women tend only to have one.Along with other industrialised countries, Australia was one in which having two or more sexual partners in the past year was comparatively common. Single men and women in Africa were fairly sexually inactive: only two-thirds of them reported recent sexual activity, compared with three-quarters of their counterparts in developed countries.In what researchers said was proof the sexual double standard was still strong, more men than women reported having more than one partner. "These findings beg the question of who the men are having sex with," they wrote.Italy had one of the lowest percentages of men who had sex before age 15 (4 per cent), compared to 18 per cent in the United States and 30 per cent in Brazil and the Dominican Republic. The researchers said early initiation was more likely to be non-consensual, unsafe and generally to be regretted later. The study suggests that unequal treatment of girls and women as the major sexual-health issue.The researchers call for providing sexual health services to unmarried young women, supplying condoms, decriminalizing commercial sex and homosexual sex, and prosecuting the perpetrators of sexual violence.Experts say data gleaned from the study will be useful not only in dispelling popular myths about sexual behaviour, but in shaping policies that will help improve sexual health across the world. "There's a misperception that there's a great deal of promiscuity in Africa, which is one of the potential reasons for HIV/AIDS spreading so rapidly," said van LookFewer than half of unmarried non-virgins reported having sex in the past month. Some of the major findings the survey found were:School-based sexual education delays and does not hasten onset of sexual activity.First sexual experience is often forced or sold.Marriage is no safeguard of sexual health. It is more difficult for married women to negotiate safe sex and condom use than it is for single women.Condom use is increasing, but condom-use rates remain low in many developing countries.Among girls who marry at a very young age, "very early sexual experience within marriage can be coercive and traumatic."While there is no major trend toward earlier sexual experience, a trend toward later marriage has led to an increase in premarital sex.Public health measures to improve sexual health should focus not only on individual behaviours but also on broader issues such as gender, poverty, and mobility.Public-health messages intended to reduce sexual risk-taking "should respect diversity and preserve choice."Monogamy is the dominant pattern in most parts of the world. Men report more multiple partnerships than do women. Such men are more likely to live in developed nations.GMTV, a breakfast television programme broadcast on ITV in the United Kingdom, finished broadcasting on Friday after broadcasting on the TV station since 1993. Andrew Castle and Emma Crosby were the hosts of the final programme, with Richard Arnold — a television critic — and weather presenter Clare Nasir also present. British music group McFly featured as guests.At the end of the last episode, Andrew Castle commented about GMTV that "like all families there have been squabbles along the way but there has been no shortage of love, effort and perseverance, and we just want to say to the viewers who have been with us loyally for a long time, thank you so much."A new programme, entitled Daybreak, will replace GMTV; it is expected to be broadcasting from Monday at 0600 BST (0700 UTC). The hosts will be Adrian Chiles and Christine Bleakley, both of which are former presenters of BBC One's The One Show. From 0830 BST (0930 UTC) on the same day Lorraine Kelly will become the host of her own programme."Daybreak plays a key part in ITV’s ongoing transformation and reflects the fact that creative renewal lies at the heart of our schedule, which is being modernised and improved under Peter Fincham," stated Alison Sharman in relation to the proposed modifications. "We want to ensure that the core audience of housewives with children keep watching but are also determined to attract new viewers to our revitalised breakfast show. As we approach the next stage of this transformational journey our newly confirmed anchors — Christine and Adrian — will be the lynchpins of Daybreak with their unique and brilliant partnership."Both golf and rugby are set to return to the Olympic Games. The International Olympic Committee voted to include the sports at its executive board meeting in Berlin today. Rugby, specifically rugby union, and golf were selected over five other sports to be considered to participate in the Olympics. Squash, karate and roller sports tried to get onto the Olympic program as well as baseball and softball, which were voted out of the Olympic Games in 2005. The vote must still be ratified by the full IOC at it's October meeting in Copenhagen.Golf will return after a 112-year absence from the Games; the sport was last played at the 1900 and 1904 Games. Rugby union, in its full 15-a-side version, was included in four Olympic Games, with its last appearance being in 1924. If the sports are included after the October meeting, rugby will return to the Olympics as rugby sevens, a version of rugby union with seven players per side and 7- or 10-minute halves instead of the standard 40-minute halves. Elite rugby director Rob Andrew said that "Rugby Union is played in more than 100 countries and has a superb opportunity to further develop and grow through its new partnership with the IOC."The format that has been proposed for golf is two 72-hole tournaments, one each for men and women, with 60 competitors each. The top 15 players in the world will qualify automatically and the major golf schedules will arranged around the Olympic Games. Not all were happy with the proposed inclusions to the game. IOC President Jacques Rogge defended the decision, saying that "this is the young generation that will be at its peak in 2016. The same question was raised time and time again when tennis and ice-hockey were introduced. Ask [top tennis players] Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer, ask the NHL players, ask the NBA basketball players. They all want to go to the games — they are absolutely not concerned about that." One of the sports that lost out was squash. Squash Federation President N Ramachandran commented on his disappointment that squash was not included in the games. If the sports are included, they will first be conducted in the 2016 Games. Women's boxing is now set to appear at the 2012 Games.Plans for a radio dramatisation of the novel Good Omens, co-written by prominent UK fantasy authors Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett, were confirmed on Friday by BBC Radio 4.Published in 1990, Good Omens tells the story of the impending Apocalypse, and the efforts of one angel and one demon to save the world.Neil Gaiman has previously had one of his books, Neverwhere, adapted for radio. The director of that adaptation, Dirk Maggs, is also working on Good Omens.Terry Pratchett is well known for his Discworld novels, of which the first one, Colour of Magic, was published in 1983.Recording for what would be the first ever dramatisation of the cult-classic began on Friday, with broadcast dates unconfirmed but said to be in December. The show is expected to broadcast over five days throughout the week and an hour-long finale on the Saturday.Mark Heap and Peter Serafinowicz have been cast in the lead roles, with other actors on the cast list including Colin Morgan, Josie Lawrence and Clive Russell. Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett are also expected to make cameo appearances.File:Google Wave.jpgGoogle has decided to retire the Google Wave social-networking service after one year, citing lack of user adoption.Urs Hölzle, Google senior vice president for operations, said in a blog post that "Wave has not seen the user adoption we would have liked. We don't plan to continue developing Wave as a stand-alone product." Hölzle also said that as a "web app for real time communication and collaboration, it set a high bar for what was possible in a Web browser. We weren't quite sure how users would respond to this radically different kind of communication." Google says that it will continue the service until the end of the year.In May 2009, Google launched Wave as a private beta. A year later, it became open to the public. Wave is an email service that integrates social media features and capabilities into emailing. It integrates IM-like features into its service. The company released components of Google Wave as open source for those to create a similar service. "The central parts of the code, as well as the protocols that have driven many of Wave’s innovations, like drag-and-drop and character-by-character live typing, are already available as open source, so customers and partners can continue the innovation we began. In addition, we will work on tools so that users easily "liberate" their content from Wave," Google said.Google announced on July 25 that its search engine has indexed over 1 trillion unique web pages from all over the globe."We knew the web was big," the article on Google's official blog begins. "Even after removing those exact duplicates, we saw a trillion unique URLs." This article also discussed the indexing technology behind the stage. Google, known as a popular international search engine, has servers all around the world to index web pages. With the rapid development of the Internet, the number of web pages with unique URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is growing by several billion per day. In 1998, Google had an index of only about 26 million pages. Within 10 years, that number has increased by 38 thousand times.Originally called Backrub, Google gained popularity in the early 90s, and has since released products including Gmail, Blogger, and Google Apps.This week Google's on-line video sharing website YouTube launches its own awards ceremony. The site will present the best user-generated videos posted during 2006 in seven categories. The starting point is Monday and users will end voting on Friday. Winners will get their trophies on March 26.The categories that YouTube is going to present include: most creative or inspirational video, best series, as well as music video or commentary and best comedy. The last category, number seven, is called "most adorable video ever" and it is to continue the tradition of videos starring cats and dogs while asleep.Those that are nominated are able to promote themselves on YouTube during the following five days. These users are also able to plead for votes.The $1.65 billion Google's acquisition gathered a huge number of fans. According to Jamie Byrne, head of YouTube product marketing, 2006 was a pioneering year for sites that rely on user's content. However, companies like Viacom, believe one category is missing - "Best Professionally Produced Copyrighted Video." Last week Viacom sued Google together with YouTube for more than $1 billion. The lawsuit states that the ever increasing popularity of YouTube is due to a massive uploads of copyrighted videos including "The Colbert Report" and "South Park".Renowned African American artist Gordon Parks, known for his photography, film direction, and autobiographical works, including the book and film The Learning Tree, died Tuesday at his home in New York. He was 93.Parks was a pioneering black artist with an impressive list of honors and accomplishments, including at least 40 honorary doctorate degrees. He was the first African American staff photographer for Life magazine, where he worked from 1948 to 1972. President Reagan presented him with the National Medal of Arts in 1988. He published at least five semi or wholly autobiographical books.Gordon Roger Alexander Buchannan Parks was born November 30, 1912, in Fort Scott, Kansas, the youngest of 15 children. After his mother's death when he was 16, he moved to St. Paul, Minnesota, where he attended high school. He dropped out in order to find work during increasingly hard times, traveling extensively in the North and Northwest looking for jobs. In 1938, he bought his first camera and experimented with both documentary and fashion photography. At age 30, he won a fellowship and traveled to Washington, D.C., where he worked as a photographer for the Farm Security Administration and later for the Office of War Information.During his time at the FSA, Parks composed photo-essays critical of the racial and social prejudices many faced. His work drew attention both to himself and to the poverty and social injustices of the time.After the beginning of the war, Parks moved to Harlem, where he found a job as a fashion photographer for Vogue and continued to take socially provocative photos of slum life in the city. It was these photos that convinced Life's photography editor to hire him.In 1962, Parks wrote The Learning Tree, based on his Kansas childhood. The book was a success, and Parks later directed the film version, for which he also wrote the screenplay and the music. The Learning Tree was one of the first 25 films placed on the National Film Registry. Parks next directed Shaft and its successful sequel, Shaft's Big Score, as well as a blaxploitation comedy called Supercops.Parks' other artistic achievements include a ballet, written about Martin Luther King, Jr., four other memoirs, a collection of poetry, several original musical compositions and at least one other fictional, non-autobiographical novel. Collections and exhibits of his photography have traveled extensively within and beyond the United States.He is survived by his three ex-wives, Sally Alvis, Elizabeth Campbell, and Ms. Young; his daughter, Toni Parks Parson, and his son, David, from his first marriage; and a daughter, Leslie Parks Harding, from his second marriage; five grandchildren; and five great grandchildren. A son, Gordon Parks Jr., died in 1979.The smash hit "Demon Days" from cartoon concept band Gorillaz has been nominated for 5 Grammy Awards:Record Of The Year, "Feel Good, Inc."Best Pop Collaboration With Vocals, "Feel Good, Inc."Best Urban/Alternative Performance, "Dirty Harry"Producer Of The Year, Danger Mouse "Demon Days"Best Short Form Music Video, "Feel Good, Inc."The other nominations for Record of the Year are "We Belong Together" by Mariah Carey, "Boulevard Of Broken Dreams" by Green Day, "Hollaback Girl" by Gwen Stefani, and "Gold Digger" by Kanye West.Antony Gormley's artwork Another Place is to stay on Crosby Beach.Sefton Metropolitan Borough Council changed its mind after revised plans were put in relocating some of the statues in order to reduce impact on wildlife and danger to visitors. Bootle Town Hall was packed for the meeting of the planning committee which was attended by Mr Gormley.The original plan had been for a 2 year placement at the beach. However when it was decided to transfer the statues to another site, several local campaign groups were started with the intention of keeping the statues.Afterwards, Mr Gormley said:It's wonderful that a piece of beach should become a permanent place of contemplation and reverie. I'm a sailor and I understand that people feel their ability to use coastal waters is being diminished, but I do not believe the loss is as great as they’re saying.After plans to move 19 statues where submitted, 13 where to be removed from the area around a coastguard station and three to improve emergency access and the rest from the birds feeding area. Councillors voted nine to five to keep the work.The Maritime and Coastguard Agency still want the work removed as it draws visitors into areas of the beach were they can become stuck. While directors of art organisations in the area such as Liverpool Biennial have expressed support for the decision.The Office of Film & Literature Classification Review Board in Australia has refused to classify Marc Ecko's Getting Up: Contents Under Pressure.  The computer game's premise is a future world where freedom of expression is suppressed by a tyrannical city government and to win the game the player has to express his message through graffiti. The decision was made by 5 members who voted 3/5 against the classification of the game;  Ms Maureen Shelley, the convenor, broke the deadlock on the grounds it encourages crime. The game cannot be sold, demonstrated, hired or imported without a classification. Australia is the only country to ban the game so far. The decision comes even though OFLC guidelines state that adults may hear, read and see what they wish.The game was originally rated MA15+ for Strong violence, and strong themes on 18 November 2005. Other games to be banned in Australia include Postal and BMX XXX, while'Combat: Task Force 121', a game whose premise involves shooting people to defend US interests from Marxist rebels [1]was rated M (below the maximum rating of MA for a video game in Australia) and is therefore available to buy by anyone of any age.Atari Australia, the games local distributor has said it strongly disagrees with the outcome and they defend the original MA rating "We are definitely investigating all our options at the moment. If we can appeal it we will," said Mr David Wildgoose, public relations manager at Atari.Any action to be taken would take place after they receive the Review Board's written decision.Mark Ecko has been also expressed his point of view“I am extremely disappointed in the Australian Government Classification Review Board’s move to ban my video game ... based solely on a perceived notion that it somehow will promote the crime of graffiti.” Ms Maureen Shelley, when questioned on her decision by the ABC’s Lateline, said she didn’t need proof that video games encourage crime—only that she thought they could.A nun of the Nipponzan Myohoji Buddhist sect, Jun-san Yasuda, organized the Flower Festival. The two-hour ceremony, including chanting, peace speeches, and singing, was conducted by monks and peace walkers. Several hundred attendees joined in bathing the baby Buddha in sweet medicinal tea. Afterwards, complimentary food and drink was available as attendees mingled in the old temple.The Grand Theft Auto (G.T.A.) game series, based on the underworld, pushes social limits on violence and sexual content in the video gaming industry. The newer Grand Theft Auto 3 release sparked controversy when it came to light the plot was based on an unnamed character's mission to destroy and slaughter his way to the top of the local crime scene. Since that release, further games were developed: Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. Thursday, according to a report filed by Gamespot, congresswoman Hillary Clinton called on the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to "take immediate action to determine the source of graphic pornographic and violent content appearing on the Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas video game." Clinton also wanted the FTC to determine if an "AO" rating would be more suitable for the game than current "M" rating.Clinton said she would work quickly to create a bill for a federal law that would "put some teeth into video game ratings." The federal legislation by Clinton would follow similar state initiatives. California assemblymen Leland Yee introduced a bill in his state, as did Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich. The purpose of the state and federal bills would be to "prohibit the sale of violent and sexually explicit video games to minors." The passage and enactment of the proposed bill by Clinton would make it a federal offence to sell video game content to persons under the age of the games's rating.Like many Grand Theft Auto gamers, the Entertainment Software Rating Board(ESRB) is cautious over Clinton legislative proposal. Patricia Vance, the president of ESRB, issued this statement: "We urge all parties not to rush to judgment until all of the relevant facts, some of which are highly technical and complicated, have been established. Any second guessing at this point would be premature and inappropriate as this investigation continues." Vance said amongst the ESRB's top interests were to protect children, to educate parents, and make sure parents make good decisions on what video games their children be allowed to play.Jack Thompson, the subject of beefs with Grand Theft Auto in the past, is a Republican attorney from Miami. Thompson sent out an email to major gaming outlets (Gamespot for example). The letter at first stated "I, as a lifelong Republican, am going to thank Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton," and offered admiration for Clinton's campaign against violence and sexual content in video games. The email then went on to criticize Doug Lowenstein, who helps manage ESRB and is the president of the Entertainment Software Association. Thompson wrote, "Doug Lowenstein could have prevented what is going to happen today, but he preferred to shoot the messengers." Thompson also mentioned the Columbine High School massacre, and claimed it was the fault of the developers of games (specifically id Software, the maker of Doom). He claims the U.S. Constitution first amendment right to freedom of speech in no way protects the gaming industry from censorship. Lowenstein issued the following statement regarding the current video game/Hot Coffee issue: "Retailers should not sell Mature games to minors, parents should watch what their kids watch, and parents should and can rely on the ESRB ratings to make the right choices for their families. We hope that... Senator Clinton will abandon the bill and work cooperatively with industry and others to ensure that parents take advantage of the effective tools on the market to regulate the games their kids play."Although some of the statements mentioned are related to video games in general and not so much GTA, a majority of all of this recently publicity did indeed start with the Hot Coffee mod for Grand Theft Auto. ESRB has never been pressured any harder in the past than they are now, and Rockstar still denies that they put the sex scenes in the game; although it has been recently demonstrated that Action Max-Replay (a cheat/feature-unlocking system for the Sony PlayStation 2) allows the user to play the "mini sex games" - the exact same thing the Hot Coffee mod unlocks for the PC version of GTA San Andreas.United States hard rock band Great White has filed a settlement offer of US$1 million to families of victims of the Station nightclub fire. 100 people died including band guitarist Ty Longley and over 200 were injured in the February 2003 disaster in Rhode Island.The fire started when band manager Daniel Bichele ignited pyrotechnics towards the beginning of a concert by Great White at the club. Cheap packing foam had been used as soundproofing material to surround the stage, and this ignited. Great White were never charged, but Bichele was given a 15-year sentence with 11 of those suspended in 2006 for 100 counts of involuntary manslaughter, to which he pleaded guilty. He was paroled in March this year.The settlement offer would need to be approved by each of the over 300 plaintiffs, as well as the federal judge. It would add to $175 million already offered by dozens of defendants in the case. No money has been handed out to any of the claimants as yet, and a law professor from Duke University has been hired to develop a formula that will determine how much each party is entitled to.The fire was the fourth-deadliest nightclub fire in US history.The Greek national football team has defeated the Finnish equivalent 2-1 in a friendly football match.Finland scored the first goal in the 66th minute when Alexei Eremenko managed to get the ball to uncovered player Jari Litmanen, who in turn put it past substitute goalkeeper Chrisostomos Michailidis. Just one minute later Greece equalised when Angelos Charisteas headed a free kick from Giorgos Karagounis into the Finnish goal.In the 72nd minute Greece moved into the lead as Benfica midfielder Costas Katsouranis scored a distant but powerful shot, bouncing it beneath goalkeeper Peter Enckelman.Both sides missed chances, with Finn Jonatan Johansson failing to capitalise on opportunities in the 7th and 4th minutes, causing Finland to lose out on having dominated the first half. Greek defender Sotiris Kyrgiakos kicked a shot over the bar shortly before half time.Also competing in the four-nation tournament, held in Cyprus, are Poland and the Czech Republic. Greece are the current European champions, whilst Cyprus and Poland both qualified for Euro 2008, making Finland the only team in the line-up not to be competing in this year's European championships.The Eurovision Song Contest 2005 was won yesterday by the entry from Greece, Helena Paparizou, singing My Number One, second place going to the entry from Malta and third place going to Romania.The competition was held in Palace of Sports in downtown Kiev, Ukraine, after its entry, Ruslana, had won the 2004 contest singing Wild Dances.  Semi-finals had been held on May 19, 2005.  10 out of 25 countries with the highest scores in the semi-finals then joined 14 already pre-qualified countries in the final. Both events were televised across Europe. More than 6000 spectators attended the event.  Organisers hope that it will boost Ukraine's image abroad and increase tourism, while the country's new government hopes that it will also give a modest boost to the long-term goal of acquiring European Union membership. Bulgaria and Moldova took part for the first time while Hungary returned after a hiatus since 1998. Lebanon had been expected to make its debut appearance but decided to withdraw. For the first time in the history of the contest, Ireland failed to qualify.The hosts for the event were Maria "Masha" Efrosinina and DJ Pasha, a TV Presenter and Radio DJ.Finally, it's important to note most countries now choose to sing in English rather than their native language, since rule changes permit the singer to perform in any language they want.It is interesting to note that Spain, the United Kingdom, France, and Germany, who all automatically qualify for the final by right of paying the bulk of the budget of the European Broadcasting Union (Eurovision's parent organisation) all finished in the bottom four positions.Today, Greece and Greeks all over the world celebrate the Greek Independence day; the 25th of March, 1821, during which the struggle of the Greeks against the powerful Ottoman Empire started. The President of the Hellenic Republic, Carolos Papoulias, and the Greek Prime Minister, Costas Karamanlis, attended the great parade of the Armed Forces at the Constitution Square of Athens. Earlier, in the Orthodox Cathedral of Athens, Archbishop Christodoulos performed a Te Deum which was attended by the political and military leadership of the country. The Greek Independence day was celebrated in all the large cities of Greece, including Thessaloniki, Patras, and Corinth where the local authorities had the opportunity to attend parades of the armed forces and high-school students.Hellenism across the world celebrates the Independence day as well. From London to Melbourne, Greek communities organized events and parades in honour of March 25, 1821. The big parade in New York City, United States, will be attended by thousands of Greeks and Greek-Americans. The Greek government will be represented by the Secretary of State, Dora Bakoyiannis.Athens, Greece - The famous Greek cinema and theatre actor, Nikos Kourkoulos died at the Ericos Dynan Hospital of Athens, after a long-standing fight with cancer. Kourkoulos was the artistic director of the National Theatre of Greece since 1994. He died on Tuesday morning, according to doctor's announcement. Nikos Kourkoulos played in several movies, both in Greece and abroad while he was nominated for Broadway's 1968 Tony Award as Best Supporting or Featured Actor for the musical "Illya, Darling". He played along with Greece's most prominent actors and actresses including Melina Mercouri and Aliki Vougiouklaki. Kourkoulos was married to the daughter of the Greek tycoon Yiannis Latsis, Marianna Latsis, and had 3 children. Since the announcement of his death, most of the Greek television media host opinions from Greek celebrities who express their opinion for Kourkoulos' contribution to Greek cinema and modern theatre. His funeral is expected to take place at the Zografou cemetery of Athens.The Cyprus-born, Greek actor Sotiris Moustakas died suddenly today in Athens, Greece. During rehearsals Moustakas felt unwell and was transferred to a private hospital in Athens. He was taken to the intensive care unit, but he passed away, early in the morning. He was 67 years old. Sotiris Moustakas was born in Limassol, Cyprus in 1940. In the 1960s Moustakas began working in Greece, performing in movies, plays and television shows. Moustakas became famous after his small role as the village idiot, Mimithos, in the Hollywood movie Zorba the Greek in 1964. He graduated from the National Theatre School and he also played many parts in Aristophanes’ plays in theatres around Greece. Sotiris Moustakas was about to tour Greece during summer, playing in an Aristophanes' comedy along with actor Thimios Karakatsanis.Yannis Dalianides, a Greek film director who worked on over 60 movies, has died at the age of 87. Dalianides died after spending a month in hospital. He was known as the "godfather" of the Greek musical and the "Gentle Knight of Popular Cinema".Born in 1923, Dalianides was placed in a children's home until he was adopted. He made his first appearance in children's theatre at the age of 10. He studied at the Drama School of the Thessaloniki Conservatory, before moving to Vienna and studying dance. Dalianides tried choreography before turning to cinema.After appearing as an actor he directed his first film in 1959, titled, Mousitsa (The Temptress). He continued to have success with films such as Some Like It Cold, Downhill, and Training Old Man Yorgis. From 1961 to 1977, Dalianides worked exclusively for the Fino's Film Company. Dalianides is credited with the introduction of the musical into Greece but preferred the term "musical comedy".Dalianides worked into his seventies. His last project was Mikres Amarties, a television series made in 1999. Dalianides funeral will take place on Monday; he will be buried at Athens' First Cemetery.Police officers in Athens, Greece continue their investigation in order to find the murderer of the popular actor Nikos Sergianopoulos, who was found dead in his apartment on June 4, 2008. Athens coroner Philippos Koutsaftis stated that Sergianopoulos, 56, had been stabbed 21 times in the neck, lungs and chest, and the door had been forced. Reports from Greek television news made it known that the knife, with which the actor was stabbed, was found in the kitchen with blood on it.  Contrary to first assumptions, police now believe that it was not a premeditated murder and that the murderer was not a close friend of Sergianopoulos. Among the findings in the apartment were a fingerprint on the door inside the flat, drug substances (probably cocaine) and 40 more fingerprints which will be analyzed in special laboratories. The actor had been arrested for drug possession in the Kolonos area of Athens in December 2007.The body of Sergianopoulos has been moved to his hometown in Drama, northern Greece, where his funeral took place earlier today in the presence of co-actors and hundreds of locals.Greek singer Demis Roussos died on Sunday in Athens.  The 68-year-old Roussos, born in Egypt, died in a private hospital. No official cause of death has been announced but the hospital said he had been there for some time. Roussos reached international fame in the 1960s and 70s. His hits included Forever and Ever, Quand je t'aime, and Goodbye. Roussos, whose musical career started with work in cabaret, had success both as a solo artist and as part of a group. He belonged to progressive rock group Aphrodite's Child. After a successful career with Aphrodite's Child, Roussos went solo. His single Forever and Ever reached number one in several Single charts in 1973 and topped the UK Singles chart in 1976. He and his family left Egypt in 1961, when he was a teenager, in the aftermath of the Suez crisis. Before the move he had studied and performed music in a Greek church. He was 17 when he joined group The Idols; while with The Idols he met Vangelis, who he would go on to form Aphrodite's Child with.Vangelis released a statement about the death of his former bandmate Roussos. He said  "Demis my friend. I have just arrived in London and I've been told that you decide to take the long voyage, I'm shocked because I can't believe that this happened so soon. Nature gave you this magic voice of yours which made millions of people around the world very happy. [...] As for me, I keep those special memories that we share together those early days and I wish you to be happy wherever you are. [...] Goodbye my friend goodbye. Love Vangelis."Another tribute came from fellow Greek singer Nana Mouskouri. Speaking to French radio station RTL, she said "He had a superb voice, he travelled in the world [...] he loved what he was doing. He was an artist, a friend. I hope he is in a better world."In 1985 he was a captive in the TWA Flight 847 hijacking.  He was held for five days, one of which was his 39th birthday. During his later life Roussos lived in several countries including France, United States and England. In 2013 he was awarded the French Legion of Honour during a ceremony in Athens.MTV's 2005 Video Music Awards were rather unbalanced this year, with Green Day's capture of seven of the eight awards for which they were nominated.  The awards were for their single "Boulevard of Broken Dreams" off of the American Idiot album. Up-and-coming rock bands Fall Out Boy and The Killers also won awards. Kelly Clarkson came out with two awards.The event was hosted by Sean "Diddy" Combs at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida, USA, which was unaffected by the passing of Hurricane Katrina through the area or by the shooting of rap producer "Suge" Knight.Some notable events was Combs "conducting" a string orchestra in memory of slain rapper Notorious B.I.G while his song played, fellow rapper Snoop Dogg came out to sing the last verse of B.I.G's hit song "Warning".Green Day arrived at the event in their rusted green convertible from the Holiday and Boulevard of Broken Dreams music videos. They kicked off the show with a performance of Boulevard of Broken Dreams.R. Kelly performed a new segment to his soap opera song "Trapped In The Closet". Kelly remains a chart-topper even though the star is awaiting trial for child pornography charges.Marion "Suge" Knight was shot in the leg at a private party, hosted by Kanye West, at the Shore Club Saturday night, one day before the main event.  He was taken to nearby Mount Sinai Hospital where he was treated for the non-lethal gunshot wound.The green paper of the future of the BBC has asked for the Board of Governors to be scrapped and replaced by two boards, one representing the public and an executive board. The proposals were announced  by the British Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell in the House of Commons. Other things she has asked for is the licence fee be kept, currently at GBP 121 (EUR 176.26) per householder, more independent television to be made on the BBC, currently 10% must be made by independent television companies & to stop chasing ratings, mainly by copycating programmes from other channels. She said that the board of governors was  “unsustainable” and lacked “clarity and accountability”. Shadow Culture Secretary John Whittingdale said that the green paper did  “not go far enough” countining saying that they were  “largely cosmetic changes to the structure and oversight of the BBC”. The green paper was made as the Charter that is the basis of the BBC is to reviewed in 2007 as required by law.Earlier today, at a ceremony in Wales' Cardiff Castle, the Australian Paralympic Committee announced the selection of wheelchair rugby player Greg Smith as Australian flag-bearer during the opening of the 2012 Summer Paralympics. Over 260 members of Australia's 305-strong Paralympic team attended the announcement of Smith as flag-bearer.Multiple gold, silver and bronze medallist, Smith has represented Australia in multiple Paralympic Games in two different sports: 1992, 1996 and 2000 saw him compete in athletics; 2004 and 2008 were the games where he switched to wheelchair rugby. The Australian Paralympic Committee quoted Smith saying of this honor, "I remember in Barcelona in 1992 at my first Games when the flag bearer was announced. I just thought "Wow, that's something very special". I could have never imagined that being me one day.  I just remember that feeling of how proud you’d be if you were given such an honour."Smith joins a list of previous Australian flag bearers including Brendan Burkett in 2000, Louise Sauvage in 2004  and Russell Short in 2008.Australians can watch the Opening Ceremonies live on the ABC on August 30 at 5:20am Sydney time.The Grolier Poetry Bookshop in Cambridge, Massachusetts, has a new owner, Nigerian Poet and Wellesley College Philosophy Professor Ifeanyi Menkiti.  Menkiti purchased the bookstore from longtime owner Louisa Solano.  Publisher's Weekly and the Boston Globe have reported that he plans to maintain the readings and other events that the store has long been famous for, expand the selection of international writers and maintain more regular hours.Grolier is one of only two all-poetry bookstores in the United States, and had been in danger of closing.  Such poets as T.S. Eliot and Marianne Moore have frequented Grolier. It is a Harvard Square historic landmark.The city of San Jose, California greeted the opening of the Guadalupe River Park and Gardens today with festivities, music, and dancing. Local organizations and businesses offered booths and activities for the crowd.Themed "A park for many reasons, a park for all seasons", the opening marked the culmination of 12 years of building, at a cost of $340 million.  With trails running 2.6 miles along the Guadalupe River, the park offers an open space for city residents, preserves habitat for local wildlife, and works in conjunction with local flood control projects.  Planning for the park began in 1985 and construction continues to extend the trails along the lower Guadalupe River to Alviso by 2006.On September 24, 1759, Arthur Guinness signed a 9,000 year lease for the St James' Gate Brewery in Dublin, Ireland. 250 years later, Guinness has grown to a global business that turns over 10 billion euros (US$14.7 billion) every year.Arthur's Day has been described by Irish Prime Minister Brian Cowen as "an excuse for having a great party." Pub-goers across Dublin — as well as cities around the world including Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, Cotonou, Hong Kong, and New York — raised their glasses in tribute to Arthur at exactly 17:59 p.m. to mark the year the drink was begun.  Ireland has issued a stamp for the event.St James' Gate Brewery had grown to become Ireland's biggest by 1833 and in 1886 had grown to the biggest in the world, producing 1.2 million barrels of black stout each year.  Today, Guinness is enjoyed in 150 countries and 10 million pints are drunk every 24 hours — although Irish myth has it the brew tastes best in Dublin.Les Paul, the American jazz guitarist whose eponymous electric guitar remains one of the most popular and influential designs of musical instrument in modern history, has died at the age of 94 of complications from pneumonia.Born Lester William Polfuss in 1915 in Waukesha, Wisconsin, United States, Les Paul was establishing himself as a jazz musician in Chicago when in 1939 he built "The Log", reputed to be the first solid-body "Spanish-style" electric guitar ever made. Discussions with Gibson Guitars led to the development of the Gibson Les Paul guitar, which with its unprecedented tonal properties (caused in part by its unprecedented weight) quickly established itself among players of both the emerging rock & roll style of music and the developing electric blues.Paul was also a pioneer of recording techniques. Paul's experiments with multi-tracking in the 1940s led to a string of chart successes with songs like "How High The Moon", in which Paul's guitar work and then-wife Mary Ford's vocals appeared a novel many-layered setting, Paul playing up to eight guitar parts and Ford harmonizing with herself.Although Paul entered semi-retirement in his 50s, he remained active and performing almost until his death; his last album was released in 2006. Les Paul received a number of accolades throughout his career: he was the recipient of numerous Grammy awards, an inductee into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and the namesake of the Mix Foundation's Les Paul Award for "individuals or institutions that have set the highest standards of excellence in the creative application of audio technology." He was also the subject of two biographical films.While Les Paul had no children, he is survived by a godson, the guitarist Steve Miller.Chinese Democracy, the new album from hard rockers Guns N' Roses, has been released today, hitting store shelves in the United States and Canada after fifteen years. Many felt it would never happen, with several release dates passing and Dr Pepper making good on a promise of a free can to every US citizen if the album came out this year.Actually, Dr Pepper isn't giving quite everyone a free can. Former band members Slash and Buckethead are excluded from the promotion. Kevin Cogill pleaded not guilty to charges of copyright infringement in October after leaking nine tracks from the album onto his website, Antiquiet. He could be jailed for three years, or longer if he made money by putting the songs online.Not everywhere is going to see the album, though - topically enough, China has banned the record.The surviving members of satirical metal band GWAR  yesterday announced a charitable arts foundation in the name of Dave Brockie. Brockie, 50, died last month.Founding frontman and singer Brockie spent 30 years leading "Earth's only openly extra-terrestrial rock band", which actually hailed from Richmond, Virginia. Their obscene lyrics and theatrical live shows brought fame to Brockie, who went by stage name Oderus Urungus, and the fellow Virginia Commonwealth University art students that made up the band.GWAR unveiled the foundation in a video statement yesterday. Amongst the stated aims are providing support to artists who cannot acquire funds via traditional routes and "the advancement of music, images, letters and performances in the arts". The foundation is also to preserve Brockie's body of work and promote his legacy."We would like to thank fans and friends for their outpouring of love", the band said. A public memorial for Brockie is scheduled for August 15, and the annual GWAR-B-Q is to go ahead the next day. Drawing a line between the stage persona and the man who played it, the band add "Just face it — Oderus would order you to be present and pay tribute to Dave Murray Brockie, his own personal slave!"Donations can be made at the GWAR-B-Q and via GWAR's website. The rubber-costumed band remains to publicly decide if they will continue to perform and record. They say the foundation's first task will be to fund and erect a monument "to provide the world with a place to pay respects to the memory of a very cherished man".Dave Brockie of rubber-costumed metal act GWAR  was found dead in his Richmond, Virginia home late on Sunday. Better known by stage name Oderus Urungus, Brockie was 50.Founder, singer, leader, and occasional bassist of GWAR, Brockie's career stretches back to 1984. He and fellow Virginia Commonwealth University art students formed what they dubbed "Earth's only openly extra-terrestrial rock band", growing famous for satirical and obscene lyrical themes, and live shows featuring the defilement of effigies and plenty of fake blood.Fellow founding member Don Drakulich, who still makes props and costumes for the rockers, said he was "very sad" and "shocked". He said Brockie's roommate found the corpse. GWAR members changed frequently and the band recovered from the sudden death of guitarist Cory "Flattus Maximus" Smoot during a 2011 tour, but the New York Daily News notes "it's hard to envision their saga going further" after Brockie's death.The band ran with the backstory of crashing to "the most insignificant planet in the universe" 43 million years ago before creating humans by having sex with apes. Becoming encased with ice, the legend ran that upon thawing out in 1984 the members decided to form a band.Manager Jack Flanagan announced the death via GWAR's website, adding a post-mortem will be conducted. "My main focus right now is to look after my band mates and his family" he said. Flanagan said another GWAR member found the body.Brockie said in 2009 "I am one of the blessed people that gets to do what I love to do for a living." GWAR received a Grammy nomination in 1993, with Phallus in Wonderland up for Best Longform Music Video.Fellow Virginia rocker Randy Blythe, vocalist for Lamb of God, paid tribute online, writing on Instagram "When someone dies, a lot of the time people will say 'Oh, he was a unique person, really one of a kind, a true original' [...] I can't think of ANYONE even remotely like him." Blythe also took to Facebook. "Right now, if I were to truly honor Dave in the way HE would do it if it were ME that had died, I would make a completely tasteless joke about his death. But I do not have the stomach for that — Dave would, but not me. He never put much stock in 'limits'."Ex-GWAR guitarist Steve Douglas said on Facebook "I have had a few bad days in my life but this one truly ranks right up there. [...] you are gone and it is hurting very badly!" "I wish it was a joke" said another ex-member, Chris Bopst. "Everyone is in shock."Former bassist Mike Bishop paid tribute in an interview with Style Weekly. "Dave was one of the funniest, smartest, most creative and energetic persons I've known," he said. "He was brash sometimes, always crass, irreverent, he was hilarious in every way. But he was also deeply intelligent and interested in life, history, politics and art."Sony's recently introduced Playstation Portable has proved popular with curious geeks who discovered various talents hidden within the new handheld video console.The biggest 'hack' so far has been the manipulation of a web browser embedded within the PSP game 'Wipeout Pure', which can be easily coaxed into accessing the majority of Internet via a suitable portal. Jonathan Terleski was able to monitor the digital conversation held between his PSP and Sony's website when the browser in his game 'Wipeout Pure' would try to download new software from Sony via the Internet. Using a suitably set up DNS server, Terleski configured his handheld console to access his own custom PSP portal, instead of Sony's website, and then invited other owners to use his gateway to the web. [1]From this discovery, Robert Balousek later created a web based IRC interface that allows people to talk to each other and hold conversations in real time via the Internet on their PSP consoles. According to Reuters, his IRC website has to date been used by as many as 100,000 visitors and Balousek now plans to introduce a web based interface to the AOL instant messaging network for PSP users.Other notable recent 'hacks' include reading ebooks and comics and watching pre-recorded television shows, taken from a TiVo, on the Sony PSP.None of the 'hacks' have yet employed writing custom software for the device.  So far, most are spin-offs of Jonathon Terleski's web browser hack.  Other hacks, like the ebook reader and television show viewer, are made possible through use of the PSP's built in tools for viewing video and images.  Sony has not yet released an SDK which would allow end-users to write 'homebrew' software, therefore hackers are tied to manipulating software included with the PSP or available through the games purchased separately.Speaking to Wikinews, Jacob Metcalf, who documented the web comic's hack on his website, explained his motivation: "Web comics are already designed for on-screen reading and they have some of the same audience as people who play games - lots of the most popular web comics are about gamers, like PVP and Penny Arcade."He added: "I do wish that [Sony] would come out with an actual web browser like the Dreamcast had. South Korea is going to get a real web browser and I have a feeling in my gut that there is going to be Internet software for the PSP like a web browser and email announced at E3 this year."Schools in Moscow, Russia have been told by the city's department of education to not allow any Halloween-related events.Alexander Gavrilov, press secretary of the education department, told Interfax, "The department's stance has remained invariable since 2003, when the leadership of the department sent a letter to Moscow principals, which bans holding Halloween events at their schools."Gavrilov further said that the ban is because this holiday "includes religious elements, including the cult of death, the mockery of death, personification of death and evil, which contradict the secular nature of state educational institutions." "This is destructive for the minds and the spiritual and moral health of pupils," he said. "It's not an attempt to block the celebration of this holiday completely, just in schools and colleges."Sunday saw Formula One racer Lewis Hamilton win the Bahrain Grand Prix after an "incredible" race he spent battling with teammate Nico Rosberg. It was F1's 900th ever World Championship Grand Prix.The two Mercedes drivers were neck-and-neck throughout the race, with Hamilton usually in front. Rosberg started from pole position after Hamilton made a mistake in qualifying, going off-track and settling for second. After the race Hamilton said it was "an incredible day, a really tough day" and he wanted some relaxation time.Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo had to start from thirteenth despite qualifying third after an incident in Malaysia last race saw him given a ten-place grid penalty. His car left the pits with a wheel loose, and stewards imposed the penalty after deeming it unacceptably dangerous. Ricciardo managed to finish fourth to score his first points of the season after a disqualification in the opening race in his native Australia.Reigning champion Sebastian Vettel continued to struggle with technical problems, including his drag reduction system and gearbox. Starting from tenth ahead of teammate Ricciardo, he was able to reach sixth by the finish line. He missed much of the final practice session before qualifying after he spun off the track and beached his car. The closure of the night race was marked with a fireworks display.Venezuelan driver Pastor Maldonado also saw his troubles continue. Having newly switched to Lotus, he failed to complete the opening two races this year and damaged his car with an accidental wheelie practicing for this one. Exiting the pit lane on the 41st lap Maldonado struck the side of Sauber racer Esteban Gutiérrez with sufficient force to send the Mexican's car onto its back before rolling back upright.Gutiérrez received medical attention on-site and in hospital as a precaution, but was uninjured. "Wow!" Gutiérrez told his team via radio before leaving the car. "What was that?"  Maldonado received a stop-and-go penalty  and finished outside the points. Stewards had further punishment for the Lotus driver after the race. He will have a five-place grid position penalty at the start of his race in China. He also had three points added to his racing driver's licence, a new system this year comparable to a normal motorist receiving points after traffic offences.Maldonado seemed to imply the other driver played a roll in the collision. "We will need to have a look again at what happened," he said, "as Esteban seemed to be off his line coming into turn one — maybe he missed his braking point, I don't know — and by then I was in the corner with nowhere to go". Fan opinion is sharply against him, with some using the derogatory nickname Crashtor Maldonado. Others said his punishment was unfair compared to Ricciardo's ten-place grid position drop after his team's mistake in Malaysia.  Gutiérrez thanked supportive fans via social media after the race in English and Mexican, and returned to the circuit yesterday as teams took to testing. Maldonado was not alone in causing accidents. Jules Bianchi received a drive-through penalty  after colliding with Adrian Sutil, leaving both cars sporting punctures. Sutil later retired from the race.Other retirements included Marcus Ericsson and Kevin Magnussen, both rookies, who separately pulled up at the trackside. Fellow newcomer Daniil Kvyat of Russia, who claimed the title of F1's youngest-ever points scorer at the season opener, was placed just outside the points despite setting one of the fastest laps of the early part of the race. He had also scored in Malaysia."Not an easy race for us yesterday!" Kvyat tweeted on Monday. "But many things learned, and helpful for the future."The podium was rounded out by Sergio Pérez in third, claiming Force India's second-ever podium finish off the back of a failure to even start in Malaysia with a gearbox malfunction. Nico Hulkenberg took fifth. Both he and ninth-place Fernando Alonso celebrated upon completing the race, arms in the air. Williams racers Felipe Massa and Valtteri Bottas scored seventh and eight place respectively. Kimi Räikkönen claimed the final scoring position of tenth despite a minor collision with Magnussen at the race start.Williams, who this year are using new bright white livery on their cars, where able to keep the coloured stripes of sponsor Martini. Constraints from the host nation meant the word Martini itself, however, was changed to 'racing' on the cars. Williams test driver Susie Wolff of Scotland  started a competition during the race weekend to win one of her Martini-coloured caps for submitting pictures of designs using the Martini colours.A further near miss was suffered by Bottas when he ran off-track after becoming caught in battling between Räikkönen and Ricciardo. His team radioed to promise a complaint would be made to race director Charlie Whiting.Rosberg told his Twitter followers "Great fight with @LewisHamilton but I'm back in two weeks to take the win". Hamilton tweeted "What a race! Amazing to get my first win in Bahrain" and also paid tribute to his Mercedes team.Anti-government protestors turned out in their thousands at the start of the race weekend. The peaceful rally at the capital, Manama, was marred by small groups throwing molotov cocktails  at police. The protestors were opposed to the international attraction giving patronage to Bahrain. Events at the circuit were given heavy security.The race has been the target of intense protesting for several years.The 48th International Mathematical Olympiad (IMO) is taking place from July 19 to July 31 in Hanoi, Vietnam, the first South-east Asian country to host the annual mathematics competition for high school students since it began in 1959.This year the actual competition will take place July 25-26, with jury meetings before those dates and excursions and a closing ceremony in the days following. The Olympiad challenges mathematically gifted youngsters with a series of problems submitted by IMO member states, and awards individual prizes.More than 90 countries are members of the IMO, which is held in a different country each year. Other Asian countries that have hosted the Olympiad in the past include Japan (2003), South Korea (2000), Taiwan (1998), and China (1990). Madrid, Spain will host the 2008 IMO.The website of the 2007 contest displays an animated solution to the Tower of Hanoi puzzle, which involves moving disks stacked on pegs without placing a bigger disk on top of a smaller one.Science fiction author Harlan Ellison announced, in a press release dated March 13, 2009, that he is suing television company CBS Paramount Television for failure to pay residuals to Ellison for the Star Trek episode "The City on the Edge of Forever". Ellison is also suing writers' union the Writers Guild of America, west (WGA), of which he is a member, for failing to diligently pursue Ellison's royalties from Paramount.In a strongly and colorfully worded press release, Ellison and his lawyer alleged that Paramount had failed to pay the author, who wrote the 1967 television episode under the pseudonym "Cordwainer Bird", royalties on derivative works such as tie-in novels based on the story as well as merchandise based on the episode such as a 2004 talking Christmas ornament which recited lines from the episode.The suit comes two months before the release of a film, titled simply "Star Trek", which will re-launch the longstanding multimedia science-fiction franchise. The film will be the first original, official Star Trek video material since the series "Star Trek: Enterprise" was canceled in mid-2005. CBS Paramount is also gearing up for the April release of the first series of Star Trek, including "City on the Edge of Forever", on Blu-Ray high-definition disc.Ellison, however, states: "And please make sure to remember, at the moment some Studio mouthpiece calls me a mooch, and says I’m only pursuing this legal retribution to get into their ‘deep pockets,’ tell’m Ellison snarled back, ‘F- - - -in’-A damn skippy!’  I’m no hypocrite.  It ain’t about the ‘principle,’ friend, its about the MONEY! Pay Me!  Am I doing this for other writers, for Mom (still dead), and apple pie? Hell no!  I’m doing it for the 35-year-long disrespect and the money!"The suit is not the first time contention has arisen between Ellison and Star Trek since he wrote the episode. In 1995 the author, in the book Harlan Ellison's The City on the Edge of Forever, accused Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry of "demented lies" about the episode. He also stated at the time: "I've never seen more than a pittance from 'The City on the Edge of Forever,' while every thug and studio putz and semiliterate bandwagon-jumper and merchandiser has grown fat as a maggot in a corpse off what I created." Roddenberry, who died in 1991, stated in numerous interviews that Ellison's original script was unsuitable for reasons of content and budget, and rewrote it heavily; a dissatisfied Ellison chose to have a pseudonym appear on the final version. The episode as aired won the 1968 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, while Ellison's original script won a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Dramatic Hour-Long Script.Ellison's suit against the WGA West, meanwhile, is for the symbolic amount of one dollar. He asserts he is seeking "a judicial determination as to whether the WGA is doing what its stated purpose has been since day-one! To fight and negotiate for him and other writers.  To obtain misappropriated, withheld, hidden earnings, no matter how minuscule or difficult to retrieve – but HIS, nonetheless." Ellison took part in picketing during the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike. Requests for comment from CBS-Paramount and the WGA were not returned.Harlan Ellison became established in the science fiction community in the 1950s and won awards and acclaim for short work such as the 1969 novella "A Boy and his Dog" and the 1967 short story "I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream". He has also been the plaintiff in several high-profile lawsuits, suing a person who posted some of his copyrighted work on Usenet along with the ISPs hosting the work in 2000 and in 2006 suing Fantagraphics for defamation; Ellison won the first lawsuit and settled the second. Also in 2006, he controversially groped the breast of fellow author Connie Willis at the 64th World Science Fiction Convention in Los Angeles during the presentation of Willis's Hugo Award; Ellison later apologized for the incident.CityTV reporter Dwight Drummond accommpanied a diverse crew of Toronto public school students to Ottawa, with intentions of meeting Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper.While students, part of an inner-city breakfast club, had the opportunity to tour the Parliament Buildings at length, Harper stayed far away from the quick, scheduled hello. He failed to even send an MP in his place, to the event, scheduled as part of Black History Month.Every other political party with seats in Parliament sent a representative to greet the visitors. Present was the deputy leader of the Liberal opposition party, Michael Ignatieff, and prominent NDP MP Olivia Chow, who is the wife of NDP leader Jack Layton.While Chow and Ignatieff both hold office in Toronto, where the Citytv broadcasts to, and the Conservatives were shut out of the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), even those without self-interest dropped by. Bloc Quebecois leader Gilles Duceppe spoke to the students, despite the fact his party only runs candidates in Quebec.City's coverage of the tour focused on what the students did see, rather than what they missed.Harper seems to have made a regular practice of ignoring or delaying scheduled visits. Canadian Auto Workers union leader Buzz Hargrove mentioned he has yet to talk to the Prime Minister. Hargrove represents over 265,000 workers in every province and territory in Canada.Harris Wittels, an executive producer on the comedy television series Parks and Recreation, has been found dead. The 30-year-old was found unresponsive at his home in Los Angeles by his assistant on Thursday. He was pronounced dead at the scene. Police have announced they are investigating the possibility of a drug overdose. Wittels had a history of drug abuse and spoke openly about his addiction and treatment in drug rehabilitation centers. As well as working as a producer he was also a writer, musician, and stand-up comedian. He performed a stand-up set in Hollywood the night before his death.Wittels, from Texas, started work on Parks and Recreation as a writer before being promoted to producer and eventually executive producer. Parks and Recreation is in its seventh and final season. The last episode is due to be broadcast on NBC next week. His other working credits include work on The Sarah Silverman Show and Eastbound and Down. He authored a book, Humblebrag: The Art of False Modesty, which came from a phrase he coined on Twitter. #humblebrag was used as a term to describe the art of false modesty.  Tributes have come from across the world of television and comedy. Sarah Silverman called Wittels her "baby". She said on Twitter "You should know that Harris was brilliant beyond compare. That his imagination was without limit. That he loved comedy more than anything". Parks and Recreation actress Amy Poehler said at a Variety event where she was being honored "I don't really feel like telling any jokes. Today, I lost a friend. I lost a dear, young friend in my life who was struggling with addiction."Fans of Wittels also paid tribute to him. Posting on culture website The AV Club, one fan wrote "I don't mean to belittle what those who knew him are going through at all, I know how I feel is nothing compared to what they're dealing with, but it does feel like I lost a friend." Another posted "Been sitting here crying since I found out an hour ago. Just unbelievably awful. Said this elsewhere but I genuinely feel like I lost a friend, don't care how lame that sounds. RIP Harris." An official cause of death will not be known until results are released by the Los Angeles County coroner’s office.Harry Browne, two-time US Libertarian Party presidential nominee and best-selling author died of Lou Gehrig's disease in his home in Franklin, Tennessee, Wednesday night, 1 March 2006.  He was born 17 June 1933 in New York City and grew up in Los Angeles, California.He was the Public Policy Director for DownsizeDC.org and was a consultant to the Permanent Portfolio family of mutual funds.He was nominated by the US Libertarian Party as its presidential candidate in 1996 and again in 2000.He is also know for his articles (including those on LewRockwell.com) and books including:"How You Can Profit from the Coming Devaluation" "How I Found Freedom in an Unfree World" "You Can Profit from a Monetary Crisis" "Why Government Doesn't Work""The Great Libertarian Offer."His writings focused largely on supporting libertarian ideas[1] and investment advise.  "How You Can Profit from the Coming Devaluation" predicted the future rise in gold prices in the 1970s.He is survived by his wife Pamela Lanier Wolfe Browne and his daughter Autumn.Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince by J.K. Rowling was released today to hundreds of special midnight parties at bookstores. The book is expected to sell tens of thousands of copies in the first hour, and the waves of fans just keep on coming. As midnight spreads across the Atlantic and the North American continent, more and more stores will start selling.The Royal Mail UK postal service delivered four hundred tons of the pre-ordered books this morning.In British Columbia, fourteen copies of the book were accidentally sold at a supermarket on the 7th of July, eight days before the book's official release date. This led publishers to obtain a court order from the British Columbia Supreme Court stating that people who had received the books were forbidden from copying, selling, discussing, or reading the book.In protest at the ruling, Richard Stallman, an advocate of less-restrictive copyright law, called for a boycott of the books after the controversial Supreme Court ruling. He called anybody who "participated in requesting, issuing, enforcing, or trying to excuse" the injunction an "enemy of human rights in Canada."With Halloween approaching, numerous haunted attractions all over Texas are preparing for the big "haunt" season. Directors and staff of such attractions must invest significant time preparing their buildings; such efforts gear up significantly during September. Wikinews caught up with some owners of these attractions to learn more about the hard work it takes to prepare for opening night.Terror Nights, an attraction in Tyler, opens for the season on September 27. Ryan Laepple, owner and director of the haunt, states he's currently involved in "a blur of safety inspections, auditions, actor training, and last but not least event advertising." Laepple went on to say he stays "pretty busy until the show opens on the 27th and then things calm down some. As long as not too many things in the haunt break at once." Dean Jarnig, the director of Zombie Manor in Arlington, said he and staff have recently been spraying flame-retardant chemicals and installing new lights. Jarnig also stated he and staff are working on a promotional video for their attraction, which opens on Friday September 13.Hangman's House of Horrors in Fort Worth is celebrating both its twenty fifth anniversary and final operational year. Some individuals who act in these attractions refer to their fellow actors as extended family. This year, some sources have even encouraged holiday job seekers to consider working at a haunted attraction to earn money. One  whimsically listed the job's benefits as "[...] free uniforms, a complimentary hair and makeup consultation and make-over, inspirational background music, plenty of on-the-job exercise opportunities and more."  Long a staple in American culture, "Haunted Houses", as they're commonly called, range in size from small garage-sized projects, up to multi floor buildings outfitted with the most elaborate of lighting and special effects.Don Ho, arguably one of Hawaii's best-known entertainers who entertained generations of tourists in Waikiki, died Saturday of heart failure.  He was 76.Ho was pronounced dead at 11:59 a.m. Saturday at Queen's Medical Center in Honolulu after collapsing at his Waikiki residence.  In 2005, Ho was diagnosed with cardiomyopathy and underwent experimental stem cell treatment that November in Thailand in an attempt to repair his damaged heart muscle.  He resumed a reduced workload in January 2006 and continued his performances at the Ohana Waikiki Beachcomber hotel until his death; his last performance was Thursday.Born in Honolulu on August 13, 1930, Ho was raised in Kaneohe and graduated from Kamehameha Schools.  After receiving his bachelor's degree from the University of Hawaii and serving in the United States Air Force, he started his entertaining career, first at his family's bar in Kaneohe, then in Waikiki since 1962.  It was while he was performing at Duke Kahanamoku's club in Waikiki that his band caught the attention of record executives.His best known hit, "Tiny Bubbles," reached #8 on Billboard magazine's charts.  Ho would go on to record more albums and perform at venues across the United States as well as in Waikiki.  A nationally televised variety show known as the Don Ho Show aired on ABC from 1976 to 1977.Local entertainers remember him for his ability to connect with his audience as well as his laid-back, mumbled delivery that became his signature.Ho is survived by wife Haumea Hebenstreit Ho and 10 children, including singer and actress Hoku Ho.File:Ipad mini.jpgOn Thursday Hawaiian Airlines announced all their Boeing 767-300 aircraft would be fitted with iPad mini tablets made by Apple for in-flight entertainment from September 1. The new gadget would be served on 14 routes connecting Hawaii with mainland USA, Asia, and the South Pacific.Passengers in business class would be able to use the tablet for free while economy class passengers would need to pay $15 when purchasing the service before boarding (or $17 if purchased during the flight). The airline offered such price with the help of Bluebox Avionics, a company specializing in in-flight services.The airline has purchased 1,500 iPad minis to replace old in-flight entertainment devices. Each tablet would have at least 100 hours of new Hollywood movies.The new service was planned to be introduced on flights connecting Honolulu with Oakland, San Jose, Sacramento, Seattle, Phoenix, Fukuoka, Sendai, Seoul, Brisbane, Papeete, and Pago Pago; and Kahului with San Jose, Oakland, and Seattle.The carrier becomes the first US airline to offer iPads as an in-flight service. In 2010 Jetstar, a subsidiary of Qantas, became the first airline in the world to introduce such a service in a test pilot on two services from Melbourne. During the next few years Iceland Express, airBaltic, and British Airways joined in. In March Qantas began offering iPads on flights connecting Honolulu and Sydney.U.S. media giant Time Warner plans to increase the international reach of its HBO television empire with an expansion of television offerings in Asia. The channels will be available via both wired cable services and by satellite, which is more popular in Asia than it is in the United States."Cable operators throughout Asia are preparing to dramatically expand channel capacity on many of their systems through digital technology," Jonathan Spink, CEO of HBO Asia said in a World Screen News report. He said HBO plans to be one of the first programmers to take advantage of increased channel capacity.The first new channel HBO plans to launch in Asia is HBO Signature, which is targeted to women. It is planned to debut in Singapore, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Macau and Sri Lanka by the end of the year. According to reports, HBO already has struck deals for carriage in all of those countries except Macau.In addition to programming HBO Signature to women, the company said it plans on two other genre-based channels, but did not disclose what niches they would market toward. A clue could be to look to the U.S. where HBO's niche channels include HBO Family for children-friendly programming and the self-explanatory HBO Comedy channel. Like the parent HBO Asia channel, along with limited original programming, the new genre channels are expected to offer top Hollywood fare dubbed into local languages.This is the largest expansion of HBO Asia, which has been operating in Asia since 1992 and serves 25 countries, since the launch of Cinemax Asia in 1996.Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) chairman Guy Fournier loves going to the washroom, Radio-Canada reports, and his image in Quebec is suffering because of it.While trying to defend himself on Radio-Canada program Tout le monde en parle for false, disparaging comments about the Lebanese, Fournier faced even greater pressure. In May 2006, Fournier gave an interview to a French-language Toronto radio station, spending more than ten minutes recounting his love of what many refer to as "pooing".According to his account, Fournier was on a train ride in the 1960s with his friend Michel. Michel commented that he considered this particular usage of a washroom as being as great a pleasure as sexual intercourse.The interview did not receive much attention at the time, due to a limited audience.In the interview, Fournier comments "as you grow older, you continue to go poop once a day if you are in good health, while it is not easy to make love every day. So finally, the pleasure is longer-lasting and more frequent than the other." He spoke out about distracting oneself on the toilet, and called doing a Sudoku or a crossword a "heresy". He continued that "it is just as heretical as if you read the National Post while making love. It is not to be recommended."Fournier was on Tout le monde to apologise for unsubstantiated claims that bestiality is permitted in Lebanon, so long as the animal is of the opposite sex. In the 9 September issue of 7 Jours, Fournier wrote "In Lebanon, the law allows men to have sexual relations with animals as long as they are female! Doing the same thing with male beasts can result in the death penalty."His claims were made solely on information found on the Internet.While an apology was made on the French-language program Tout le monde, which averages over two million listeners, Alain-Michel Ayache at the Université du Québec à Montréal is unsure whether he'll drop his lawsuit. Ayache, a political science instructor of Lebanese descent, has begun the steps required to file a lawsuit.Ayache commented to the National Post that he is astonished Fournier wishes to remain the chairman of the CBC, after using such low journalistic standards.Finland is to be represented at the Eurovision Song Contest 2008 by heavy metal band Teräsbetoni with their song Missä Miehet Ratsastaa (Where Men Ride).Teräsbetoni picked up 38.9% of the vote, with Kari Tapio  second at 33.9% and Cristal Snow came third with 26.5%. The selection show was arranged as three qualifying rounds, with two songs selected to go through from each. The remainder competed again amongst themselves for one wild card position, then it went to the public vote.Teräsbetoni will compete on May 20 in the first of the Eurovision semi finals for a place in the final. Both events will be held in Belgrade, Serbia.Finland won the contest in 2006 when hard rock band Lordi's Hard Rock Hallelujah scored a record 292 points. However, the following year in Helsinki Finnish entrant Hanna Pakarinen's Leave Me Alone finished outside the qualifying positions for this year's contest at number 17, with 53 points, meaning that if Teräsbetoni are to make the final they will have to qualify.Missä Miehet Ratsastaa was released as a single by Warner Music Finland on February 2.U.S. presidential candidate Herman Cain denied a suggestion from Huffington Post reporter Amanda Terkel that his 9-9-9 tax plan was derived from Maxis' 2003 computer game SimCity 4. During an interview that aired on The Rachel Maddow Show Friday, Cain bluntly characterized the suggestion as "a lie".Cain, the former CEO of Godfather's Pizza, has risen to first place in some polls for the Republican Party's presidential nomination. His campaign features the 9-9-9 plan, which calls for the implementation of a 9 percent national sales tax, and a shift of the personal and corporate income tax rates to 9 percent.Terkel compared Cain's plan to that of the default setting on SimCity 4, which institutes a 9 percent rate for commercial, industrial and residential taxes. She contacted both Maxis and Rich Lowrie, a Wells Fargo employee credited with helping Cain formulate the plan.  Though Lowrie did not respond, Maxis producer Kip Katsarelis commented: We encourage politicians to continue to look to innovative games like SimCity for inspiration for social and economic change. While we at Maxis and Electronic Arts do not endorse any political candidates or their platforms, it’s interesting to see GOP candidate Herman Cain propose a simplified tax system like one we designed for the video game SimCity 4Cain maintains that the plan is original.  When probed on the issue, he remarked "that's the difference when you become one or two in the polls. People make up stuff."Cain received similar attention in August after closing a GOP debate with a quote from the theme song for Pokemon: The Movie 2000, which he referenced to an unnamed poet. It was later reported that Cain had quoted the song on previous occasions.Officials announced that a treasure containing sacks of diamonds and gold coins as well as golden idols, jewelry and other riches has been discovered in the secret subterranean vaults of Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple, in the southwestern state of Kerala, India. Estimates of its worth have been rising and it is now thought to be worth US$20 billion.The Hindu temple was built in the 16th century by the kings of the then  Kingdom  of Travancore to serve as a royal chapel for the rulers of Travancore. The six vaults containing the treasure have been undisturbed for over a century. Assessment of the treasure began on June 27 after a lawyer concerned about the security of the treasure petitioned India's Supreme Court, which then appointed a seven-member panel of experts to inventory the treasure. The panel does not have the power to determine to whom the treasure will belong. Estimates of the treasure's worth are rising, provoking a heated  debate as to how the treasure will be used in a country that has 450 million poverty-stricken people. The chief minister of Kerala, Oommen Chandy, announced on Sunday the treasure would remain with the temple, and security matters would be decided in consultation with the Travancore Royal Family, the temple management, and  the temple priest. "The gold was offered to the lord. It is the property of the temple. The government will protect the wealth at the temple," Oommen Chandy said. Meanwhile, hundreds of armed police have been deployed around the temple to protect the treasure.However, the view that the treasure should remain at the temple has been disputed. Among the dissenters is eminent jurist V R Krishna Iyer, who said the treasure should be put in a national trust for the peoples' benefit. "God’s wealth belongs to the people, not to the king. It’s meaningless to say that it belongs to Hindus or any particular religious community," said Iyer. "A mechanism should be devised to ensure that the benefits of it reach the poor and the needy and not the rich."Five of the six vaults of the  Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple have been inventoried. On Saturday, reports leaked to the press revealed that the treasure, including a golden idol of Mahavishnu and a golden 'anki', were found in one of the vaults, estimated to weigh 30 kilograms,  along with precious stones, silver, two coconut shells of pure gold and another golden idol as well as other jewels and valuable coins. The panel hopes to find more treasure when the sixth and final vault is opened, but the attempt was suspended on Monday because the iron door inside presented "technical problems" requiring further consultation before opening. This vault is  thought to contain the bulk of the wealth. Keralan officials in a preliminary estimate said that the treasure was worth over US$11.2 billion; those estimates have now risen to US$20 billion. Historians say that the temple's location  on a site through which passed lucrative trade routes support the higher evaluations. "Traders, who used to come from other parts of the country and abroad for buying spices and other commodities, used to make handsome offerings to the deity for not only his blessings but also to please the then rulers," said P.J. Cherian, the director of Kerala Council for Historic ResearchSome suggest that the profit from the sale of the treasure would be enough to wipe out the entire public debt of Kerala and fund future Kerala  projects such as  seaports, airports and highways.Several Lancaster County, Pennsylvania high schools held their junior-senior proms this past weekend, and per tradition, they received gifts from the prom committee. Instead of traditional prom favors, however, Warwick High School in Lititz ordered more than 450 shot glasses and distributed them to students, in a move the administration now says it regrets.In 2008, the Prom Committee gave out picture frames to the girls and money clips to the boys. However, the junior class did not have as much money this year, and so the school made a decision to buy an inexpensive prom favor. The school's principal signed off on the decision to order the shot glasses, but assistant principal Scott Galen states that the paperwork identified the shot glasses as merely "prom souvenir[s]".While the school administration took responsibility for the decision to order the glasses, Galen called it a simple oversight.  Senior Class President Phoebe Baum, who had helped plan the prom the previous year, remarked that it was likely a decision made in a time crunch and was not fully thought through. Galen said that the administration did not wish to send a message that condoned underage drinking.The 2009 Man Booker Prize has been awarded to British author Hilary Mantel for her historical novel Wolf Hall. 57 other authors were short-listed, including former winners AS Byatt and JM Coetzee, as well as Sarah Waters, whose book, The Little Stranger, has sold more copies than Wolf Hall.The winning novel tells the tale of Thomas Cromwell, chief minister to Tudor king Henry VIII. In her acceptance speech, Mantel said "I can tell you at this moment I am happily flying through the air."Mantel was made a Commander of the British Empire (CBE) in 2006, 21 years after her first novel, Every Day is Mother's Day, was published in 1985. Wolf Hall was the longest book on the list.The decision was not unanimous, but all 5 judges were happy to award Mantel the trophy £50,000 prize at the London Guildhall. The judges assert that, despite differing opinions, the decision was not a compromise. James Naughtie said, "When we gathered this morning none of us knew which book was going to win. I think we all felt exhausted at the end of the process but there was real feeling that we had found a book that was worthy of the prize."The judges this year were Lucasta Miller, a biographer and critic; Professor John Mullan; James Naughtie, the chairman of judges;  Sue Perkins, a comedian, journalist, and broadcaster; and Michael Prodger, the literary editor of The Sunday Telegraph;.According to Ladbrokes bookmakers, the novel was the clear favourite, with 80% of people betting on it. Some thought this backing would go against the book, since the last time the bookmakers' favourite won was in 2002, when the prize was given to Yann Martel's The Life of Pi.The ESRB have continued to state that they are not intending to take any action against Take2 Interactive (the game's producers). Patricia Vance, the president of the ESRB, said that the author of the modification "actually had to change the underlying code [of the game]. It's not a cheat, It's not an Easter egg... Game developers have been known to deactivate parts of their code without removing them from the finished products. Oftentimes, changes are toward the end of development, and they program workarounds."Yesterday, Hindi poet and songwriter Gopal Das Neeraj died at the AIIMS trauma centre in Delhi, India. The poet was 93-years-old.According to reports, Gopal Das had a head injury at his home in Agra and was taken to Aligarh for treatment. The chief of AIIMS trauma centre of New Delhi, Dr Rajesh Malhotra, said, "He was shifted to the trauma centre here [the night before he died] in a critical condition. He had suffered from kidney failure, had infection all over his body and head injury".Born in the Etawah district of Uttar Pradesh on January 4, 1925, Gopal Das was a resident of Agra and taught Hindi literature at the Dharma Samaj College in Aligarh. Gopal Das had received some of the highest Indian civilian honourary awards, receiving Padma Shri in 1991 and Padma Bhushan in 2007.Gopal Das also wrote songs for Bollywood movies and won the Filmfare Best Lyrics award on three occasions for his songs Kaal Ka Pahiya ((hi))Hindi language: ‍काल का पहिया, Bas Yehi Apradh Main Har Baar ((hi))Hindi language: ‍बस यही अपराध मैं हर बार and Ae Bhai Jara Dekh Ke Chalo ((hi))Hindi language: ‍ए भाई! ज़रा देख के चलो. He also wrote the songs Likhe Jo Khat Tujhe ((hi))Hindi language: ‍लिखे जो खत तुझे, Dil Ne Phir Yaad Kiya ((hi))Hindi language: ‍दिल ने फिर याद किया and Dil Aaj Shayar Hai ((hi))Hindi language: ‍दिल आज शायर है.Gopal Das's body was reportedly to be taken to Aligarh today.File:Lord Ram.jpgShiv Sagar, the grandson of a popular Indian TV and movie producer, is planning to build an infotainment theme park called Ganga-Dham on the banks of the Ganges River within the next two or three years.  The project is expected to cost $6.4 million and one of the main investors is Alice Coltrane, wife of jazz great John Coltrane.The family theme park, called "Disneyland on the Ganges" by the BBC News article, could probably be better compared to Disney's Epcot, since both feature an educational, interactive multimedia experience.  Billed as the "world's biggest-ever mythological theme park", its purpose is to instruct the masses of Indian pilgrims who come to bathe in the Ganges with tales about the exploits of such Hindu gods as Rama, Vishnu, and Hanuman.The focus is to be educational, not religious.  "We’re not doing this as a religious project," said Sagar to India-West in an interview last September. "It’s not propaganda. We want to make it fun, a place where people can learn the Indian stories," a place that can appeal not only to Hindus but people of other religious faiths as well."The Hindu religion is well suited to something like this, religions like Islam are not allowed to depict forms but we have many different forms and representations of Gods," Sagar said in last week's BBC interview.The name Ganga-Dham comes from the Indian words Ganga, for the Ganges, and Dham, meaning "place" or "abode".  The park is to be built on 25 acres of land in the holy town of Haridwar, in the foothills of the Himalayas, where an estimated 18 million pilgrims a year come to ritually cleanse themselves in the river.  The god Vishnu is said by legend to have left his footprint in the town.The company behind this project is the Sagar Group.  Shiv's grandfather Ramanand Sagar established a film company, Sagar Art, in 1950 and went on to make 25 films and some hugely popular serials for Indian television.  Most notably, Sagar Art produced the groundbreaking TV mythological serial "Ramayan", about the Hindu god Rama.  Starting in 1987, the series went on to attract worldwide attention and claim as many as 650 million viewers over a period of several years.  Images and songs from their TV serials will be incorporated into the park to increase the popular draw and build on the tradition of reverence toward the Hindu gods that the series is known for.The project has also attracted some criticism, by some who feel that the site next to the holy river Ganges is inappropriate for building, and others who do not appreciate the project's light-hearted take toward the Hindu pantheon, which they find disrespectful.  However, an important hurdle has been cleared with the official support of the state government of Uttaranchal, and positive comments have been received from other interested parties who favor spreading the knowledge of Hindu philosophy by popular means.There are other difficulties that still must be addressed, for example, a lack of infrastructure in the area to support tourism.  But the Sagar Group stands to profit as they already have a Sagar Ganga Resort in the area.The parts of the planned site, as described on the Sagar Group's website, are:"High-tech" ridesAnimated, interactive museumFood courts and bazaarTemple cityPetting zooAlso places are to be provided for visiting non-resident Indians (NRIs) to set up "remote poojas" and other rituals over the Internet.Construction is planned to begin later this year for completion by 2007, specifically timed to be ready for the major Kumbh Mela religious festival in 2010, which is expected to draw as many as 50 million or more visitors to the area.Some of the park proceeds are said to be set aside for various charities.  If the park is successful, the Sagar Group plans to build similar Dhams around the world, in Asia, Oceania, South America, or perhaps even in places such as London, England; Los Angeles, California or Orlando, Florida in the United States.The "HiFun Cyber Game League and WCG/WGT Taiwanese Gaming Athletes' Qualification Final", organized unity by K-Idea, ASUStek Taiwan, and Chunahua Telecom Co., Ltd., kicked off at Exhibition Center of Shinkong Mitsukoshi Department Store, Taipei City today after a typhoon named "Sempa" crossed Taiwan.For the warming up of this championship, Chunghua Telecom held two matches named "English Vocabulary Marathon" and "Master of All-round Beneficial Quiz" for elementary students and awarded winners of classes or teams after ending some sections.Also, one of organizers ASUStek and one of sponsors Intel Taiwan exhibited new technology for participants whether they qualified the final competition or not. And Kevin F. N. Lin (Deputy General Manager of ASUStek Sales Department) said that ASUStek sponsored PCs and LCD monitors to PC Gaming Competition for a better competition performance.At this three-in-one Championship, a new performance will take place at Finals of "Counter-Strike" and "Age of Empires 3" Groups with participations of a youngest gaming athlete and new gaming teams qualified this final, and due o a sudden delay of this event, champions and Taiwanese delegates of three Xbox360 games ("Gears of War", "Dead or Alive 4", "Project Gotham Racing 3"), thee PC Games ("Warcraft", "Need for Speed - Most Wanted", "Age of Empires 3") will be announced in the evening of Opening Day of this event.American historian Howard Zinn, best known for his work A People's History of the United States, died Wednesday, January 27, of a heart attack while traveling to Santa Monica, California. He was 87. Born in 1922 to a Jewish family in Brooklyn, New York, Zinn served in the Army during World War II as a pilot. After the war ended, he took his medals and papers, put them in a folder, and wrote on top "Never again," becoming an anti-war activist for the rest of his life. He attended Columbia University, where he received a doctorate in history and wrote his dissertation on New York City mayor Fiorello La Guardia's congressional career. Zinn worked for Spelman College from 1956 to 1963, where he encouraged his students during the civil rights movement to request books from the segregated public libraries. He was a critic of Spelman's non-participation in the movement, and as a result was fired. He then became a professor of political science at Boston University from 1964 to 1988. While a professor in Boston, Zinn wrote his major work A People's History of the United States, published in 1980. The work took a revisionist view of history, telling the story of American history through the eyes of women, Native Americans and workers, as well as accusing Christopher Columbus of committing genocide during his travels. A People's History of the United States was praised by some and criticized by others, though Zinn noted that his book was not meant to be an objective history of the United States. Zinn also wrote more than 20 other books, including You Can't Be Neutral on a Moving Train, his autobiography. He is survived by two children and five grandchildren.The Benet Academy Redwings boys basketball team defeated the Oswego High School Panthers 40–34 Saturday night at Benet's historic Alumni Gym. Located at Lisle, Illinois, United States, the gymnasium is home to Benet's winning streak of 102 consecutive home games. The statewide record lasted from November 26, 1975 until January 24, 1987, when Naperville North High School defeated the Redwings 47–46. Benet also achieved 96 consecutive victories in the Western Suburban Catholic Conference at that time. The school continued to use the facility, colloquially referred to as the "Old Gym" or the "Small Gym", until the end of the 1994 season, when a newer athletic center was built on campus. It wasn't until the late 1990's when then-coach Marty Gaughan decided to play one game per year in the Alumni Gym to remind the school of its history. "There is just an electricity, and you feel it when you are in there," said Gaughan, who coached the team from the 1989–1990 season to the 2007–2008 season. This tradition continued until the 2006–2007 season, when the Redwings played against long-time rival St. Francis High School. Renovations prevented the gym from being used for athletic events over the past two seasons. This game was Benet coach Gene Heidkamp's first opportunity to coach in the older gym. "So much history and winning has taken place there, which makes it so special. It is something the entire school community is excited about," said Heidkamp. Saturday's game was played at the Alumni Gym at the request of Oswego assistant coach Jim Bagley. He wanted his son, senior forward Chris Bagley, to experience the same atmosphere he had as he played for Benet in the 1978–1979 season. Greg Kwiatkowski was also Jim Bagley's teammate in Benet, and his son, Joe Kwiatkowski, was in the Panthers' starting lineup as well. "Two of us who played at Benet together and now our son's play on [Oswego] together and for them to have a chance to play where we played is going to be a great night and great experience," said the senior Bagley. Alumni Gym apparently still had its charm in the second half for the Redwings, whose 15–17 score at halftime worsened into an 11-point deficit in the third quarter. Benet fell behind with a score of 21–29 at the start of the fourth quarter. From that point, the Redwings' defense began to kick in. Oswego could make only 2 of its 13 field goals in the third quarter. Benet's offense also gained momentum as center Frank Kaminsky scored all of his 9 points in the fourth quarter. A shot by senior Mike Runger brought the score to 31–31, and two consecutive driving layups by David Sobolewski gave Benet the lead that would last for the rest of the game. "We hit a dry spell there, but let's give credit where credit is due. Defense wins games and they are the best defensive team we've faced all year," said Oswego coach Kevin Schnable.Benet's Matt Parisi led his team with 15 points, and Sobolewski scored 12. Oswego's Andrew Ziemnik also scored 12.The German noble family of Waldburg-Wolfegg has sold the manuscript known as the The Housebook to an unknown buyer. There is speculation in the German press that it was purchased by Baron August von Finck who currently resides in Switzerland, and that the price paid was €20 million. It is unclear whether the purchase is in fact legally valid because the manuscript was sold without the permission of the government of Tübingen required by the law of fideikommiss dissolution (similar to the common law institution Fee tail). German law forbids the export of such a precious manuscript, which is registered in the list of national cultural property. The Housebook of Wolfegg is an illustrated manuscript that was created after 1480 by an unidentified artist known as the "Master of the Housebook" (or Master of the Amsterdam Cabinet) and possibly other artists. It was exhibited at the National Gallery of Art in the United States in 1998.The UK's Heritage Lottery Fund (HLF) announced today a grant of £4.6 million towards the restoration of Lews Castle on the Western Scottish island of Stornoway. Estimates suggest approximately £14 million (US$ 21.9m, € 16.2m) will be spent to restore and convert the Victorian era property into a museum with four-star hotel accommodation.Originally built as a home for James Matheson, who made his fortune in the Chinese and Indian opium trade, the castle has lain empty, and on the at-risk register, since the late 1980s. A gap of £1.6 million in required funding remains a concern the local Comhairle nan Eilean Siar (previously, Western Isles Council) is actively seeking help from both Europe and the Scottish government.Council leader Angus Campbell intends to press the Scottish Government on the final funding; "it would be a huge shame if all the other funding is lost", he said. "We are optimistic about getting some European funding, which is absolutely crucial,  and are asking the Scottish Government to close the funding gap." Campbell describes what would be the first UK museum with Gaelic as its primary language as "a generational project" with benefits throughout the communities of the Outer Hebrides. Local MSP Alasdair Allan commended the council's efforts to save Lews Castle saying they, and other agencies, "have been working tirelessly to progress plans that would ensure Lews Castle becomes both a cultural and economic asset to the islands."Throughout its colourful history, the castle was at one time owned by William Lever who founded Unilever. Before gifting the castle to the local people in 1923, Lord Leverhulme invested in electric lighting, central heating, an internal telephone system, and the extension of the ballroom for social gatherings. In World War II, the castle was the base for a Naval hospital and squadron of amphibious biplanes. Post-war, it spent 30 years as a technical college and school.If the final tranche of funding is secured, in 2014 the castle will become the first-ever archive facility in the Western Isles. The collections of Museum nan Eilean (MnE) could move from their current home into the castle; items held by the National Archives of Scotland could return to their native isles. And, modern facilities would permit collections from the National Museum of Scotland and the British Museum – such as the Lewis Chessmen – to be exhibited there.Many of record store HMV's Canadian locations have started to stock iPod portable music players, in a move to stay relevant.HMV Canada President Humphrey Kadaner commented "While the majority of purchased music continues to be in physical form, it's clear the listening experience of many Canadians is evolving to also include portable music and for the majority of those consumers the digital player of choice is the iPod. As the country's leading music retailer, it only makes sense that we provide a full music experience for our customers by selling Canada's leading digital music player.""Many people think the world of CDs and the world of iPod are incompatible and it just isn't true. Not only are they compatible, they are now cohabitating at many HMV stores across the country. The addition of iPod in HMV stores is another step in HMV's evolution from a music retailer to an entertainment retailer."In mid-November this year, Canadian chain Music World announced it was closing its stores as of the new year. The franchise has 72 stores across the country, and 648 employees who have been able to keep their jobs during liquidation, which is expected to continue through until Christmas. The store's website now contains nothing but its logo for months.Previously, the last remaining location of Sam the Record Man closed down, in downtown Toronto. Sam once had 130 stores nationwide, then the record. There is a store in Belleville and Sarnia, once part of the chain, but now simply known as "SAM".The last American locations of HMV closed in 2004.The death of longtime Los Angeles civic personality and honorary mayor Johnny Grant, who often presided at the installation of new stars at the Hollywood Walk of Fame, has been reported. He was 84.Grant, who had lived at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel, was found dead in his bed by members of his staff around 7:00pm Wednesday evening. Police say he died from a natural cause."He was supposed to appear at some kind of function and they checked on him and found he passed away on his bed," said LAPD spokesman, Officer Jason Lee.Screen legend and conservative icon Charlton Heston, twice winner of an Academy Award during his 50 year film career, died Saturday, April 5 in Beverly Hills, California."To his loving friends, colleagues and fans, we appreciate your heartfelt prayers and support. Charlton Heston was seen by the world as larger than life. No one could ask for a fuller life than his. No man could have given more to his family, to his profession, and to his country. In his own words, 'I have lived such a wonderful life. I've lived enough for two people,'" said his family in a statement released to the press.Heston starred in the 1959 film Ben Hur which won 11 Academy Awards. He also starred in the 1968 film The Planet of The Apes.  Near the end of his life, he primarily did cameo roles, including two in the films Tombstone with Kurt Russell, and True Lies with Arnold Schwarzenegger. Heston's family did not state the cause of death, but in 2002, he revealed that he was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. Heston was 84.In his early career, Heston spoke out against racism and was active in the civil rights movement. He played in films such as The Omega Man and Soylent Green (which ends with Heston saying "Soylent Green is people!"), which contain a strong environmental message.Heston was also president of the National Rifle Association from 1998 to 2003. In 2000, he declared at the NRA convention that Presidential candidate Al Gore could only take away his Second Amendment rights "From my cold, dead hands," raising a presentation rifle over his head.American actor Paul Newman died on Friday at age 83 of cancer. He pulled out of directing a stage production of John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men in Connecticut because of unspecified health problems.Newman starred in his first film in 1954 when he appeared as Basil in The Silver Chalice. Later in his career he starred in several films including Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, The Hustler, Hemingway's Adventures of a Young Man and Hud. He won an Oscar for best actor in 1987 for his appearance in The Color Of Money. This was his only Oscar win but was nominated a total of 10 times. He also worked as both a director and a producer. He also voiced the part of Doc Hudson in the 2006 Pixar film CarsNewman married actress Joanne Woodward in 1958; they had three children. He was previously married with three other children. His son Scott from his first marriage died in 1978 of a drug overdose. He set up a center for drug abuse in memory of his son. Newman opened up his own company, Newman's Own, which made a line of food products including salad dressing, salsa, lemonade and others. He donated all of the company's profits to charity.Newman retired in May 2007. He told broadcaster ABC "I'm not able to work anymore... at the level that I would want to."In a full-page ad in the Los Angeles Times, 85 top actors, directors and other Hollywood notables accused Hezbollah and Hamas of being terrorist organisations and blamed them for the deaths of all the civilians in Lebanon and Israel; including the civilians that were killed by Israel's bombing of Lebanon.The statement in the ad read as follows:We the undersigned are pained and devastated by the civilian casualties in Israel and Lebanon caused by terrorist actions initiated by terrorist organizations such as Hezbollah and Hamas. If we do not succeed in stopping terrorism around the world, chaos will rule and innocent people will continue to die. We need to support democratic societies and stop terrorism at all costs.Among the signatories are famous actors such as: Michael Douglas, Patricia Heaton, Dennis Hopper, William Hurt, Don Johnson, Nicole Kidman, Michael Mann, Kelly Preston, Sylvester Stallone, Danny De Vito, Bruce Willis and James Woods.Also included were directors Dick Donner, Michael Mann, Sam Raimi, Ridley Scott and Tony Scott.  Other influential Hollywood signatories include News Corporation chairman and chief executive Rupert Murdoch, chairman and majority owner of Paramount Pictures Sumner Redstone and media mogul Haim Saban.Although neither Hamas nor Hezbollah have responded directly to the statement, both organisations have previously insisted that they are not terror organisations, but merely legitimate resistance movements. Mahmoud al-Zahar, who is foreign minister of the Palestinian National Authority as well as a co-founder of Hamas and member of Hamas' leadership in the Gaza Strip, has previously insisted his organisation has the "right to resist" Israeli attacks. He continued:We are not playing at terrorism or violence. We are under occupation...The Israelis are continuing their aggression against our people, killing, detention, demolition and in order to stop these processes, we run effective self defence by all means, including using guns.Israeli Vice Premier Shimon Peres had earlier persuaded Nicole Kidman to visit Israel and, during a conference held by Rupert Murdoch, said "Maybe you can be tourism ambassador to the Galilee."The Hollywood sign in Los Angeles, California was modified to read "Hollyweed" on Sunday. Security camera footage shows the perpetrator was dressed all in black, said Sergeant Robert Payan.Christopher Garcia, a spokesperson of the Los Angeles Police Department, said the suspected male offender is being investigated for trespassing rather than vandalism. The sign was not physically damaged; the modification was done using black tarpaulins decorated with signs of peace and heart to alter the "O" to read lowercase "e".Betsy Isroelit, a Hollywood Sign Trust spokesperson said, "There was obviously recent legislation in California that may have inspired people. But to me, it looks more like a New Year's Eve prank." On November 9, legislators voted in favor of a ballot for legalising recreational use of marijuana in California for the age group of 21 and above.Previously, on January 1, 1976, Daniel Finegood had vandalised the sign using curtains in a similar manner to read "Hollyweed". As a college student, Finegood had modified the sign for an assignment in art class. Finegood, in 1990, had modified the sign again, signifying a political issue, modifying the sign to read "Oil War" to protest the Persian Gulf War.The sign was vandalised in 1992 before the US presidential election. Supporters of presidential election candidate Ross Perot altered the sign to read "Perotwood".The law legalising recreational marijuana is due to come into effect in 2018.As part of the celebration of 900 years of the Cahors Cathedral in Cahors, France, celebration ongoing through April, a precious relic was carried in procession through the streets of the city on Saturday, April 27: the Holy Headdress of Christ. The Holy Headdress is recognized by tradition as the veil that covered the head of Jesus when he was buried.  By one tradition, Charlemagne brought back the relic of Jerusalem and offered it to the diocese of Cahors.  The relic has been venerated in Cahors since the construction of the cathedral 900 years ago.The "Sainte Coiffe" got back into the streets of Cahors for the first time in nearly eight decades. The relic was carried in procession followed by, according to varying reports, nearly 2000 people, perhaps some hundreds more, in an event both for believers and curious. The procession made its way at the pace of hymns and prayers, through the narrow streets of the town, then on the banks of the Lot, and ended on the forecourt of the cathedral.The event was sustained by the city of Cahors, the State of France, and the civil society, for which many people have invested themselves, including volunteers.Other celebrations and other events have been planned in Cahors until December.Ted Williams, a former radio announcer from Columbus in Ohio, United States, has become a YouTube sensation after a video of the homeless man talking to a local reporter was uploaded onto the website.In the YouTube video, he can be seen standing on the exit ramp of Interstate 71 at Hudson Street, holding a sign claiming that he has "the god-given gift of a great voice" and that he had "fallen on hard times", as well as speaking to Doral Chenoweth III from daily newspaper The Columbus Dispatch. Upon being asked to "[s]ay something with that great radio voice", he replied: "When you're listening to nothing but the best of oldies, you're listening to Magic 98.9. Thank you so much. God bless you. Thank you. And we'll be back with more right after these words."In the video, Williams also mentions how "alcohol and drugs and a few other things became a part of my life and I got two years clean and I'm trying hard to get it back." This video achieved in excess of eleven and a half million YouTube views since the video was uploaded on January 3, 2011. However, the original video has now been removed because of a copyright violation claim made by The Dispatch. Copies of the clip are currently still available to view online. Subsequently, Williams received interest from companies wishing to offer occupations, including Ohio basketball team Cleveland Cavaliers — who offered a house to him — and NFL Films, according to the Associated Press. Stating that "It's that voice," Kevin McLoughlin described: "When I heard him tell his story, I said, 'That's what we do. This guy can tell a story.' Somehow, some way, I need to get a demo with him." McLoughlin also believed that "[t]he man deserves a second chance". Kraft Cheese have also made an announcing job offer to him.When asked about the effect of this YouTube sensation in an interview with CBS News, he exclaimed: "It's just sensational for one, it's numbing for another, overwhelming ... It's just amazing. ... Well, I've already been characterized as Susan Boyle. ... I'm just so, so happy. ... I had no idea that something like this would have ever happened to me. It was like, almost, winning the Mega Ball lottery. ... It's phenomenal."Having attempted to make contact with his mother, aged 92, in New York, Williams met with her for the first time in approximately twenty years in a hotel in New York, New York on Thursday, according to msnbc.com. He greeted his mother by repeatedly saying the words: "Hi, mommy."This story has been likened to the occasion when Susan Boyle became a YouTube sensation in 2009 after a video of her audition on 'Britain's Got Talent' was uploaded there. The video was viewed over nine million times within the space of five days.The Walt Disney Company and the government of Hong Kong officially opened the world's eleventh Disney theme park, Hong Kong Disneyland, today at 13:00PM local time.The park, located in Penny's Bay, Lantau Island, is the major attraction at the Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, which also features two luxurious hotels and a recreational lake with stunning views of local Hong Kong scenery, unlike previous Disney theme parks.Chinese Vice President Zeng Qinghong, chief executive of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Donald Tsang Yam-kuen, and vice chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference National Committee, Tung Chee-hwa, were present at the ceremony, as were joint Walt Disney CEOs Michael Eisner and Bob Iger, among a host of Disney Imagineers who helped design and create the park.The park has been criticised for its apparent lack of attractions compared to the other Disney theme parks around the world, but senior show designer for the park, Tom Morris, told journalists that the Imagineers had left much room around the park for expansion, and if all goes well financially, much construction will be going on in the next few years.Sixteen thousand guests attended the park today, and officials expect five million will follow in the next year. Over seventy percent of all visitors will come from Hong Kong and mainland China.Thoroughbred horse racing has been cancelled indefinitely in the Australian states of New South Wales and Queensland due to an outbreak of Equine Influenza. An Australia-wide ban on the movement of horses, donkeys and mules which was due to expire on Wednesday has been extended until Friday. NSW and Queensland have extended their bans indefinitely.So far the virus only appears to have infected horses in NSW and Queensland, with 51 confirmed cases and another 400 suspected. So far all those infected appear to be horses used for recreational purposes and not thoroughbred race horses.Despite the bans on racing and horse movements, track work will recommence in NSW and Queensland today.It had been feared yesterday that four race horses at Randwick Racecourse in Sydney had been struck down by the virus, but the horses later tested negative to the virus. If an outbreak were to occur at Randwick it could affect up to 700 race horses stabled there.The outbreak comes at a bad time for the industry, as it prepares for the lucrative spring racing season in Sydney and Melbourne. The AUD$1 million Golden Rose event at Rosehill has been cancelled, although it is expected that Melbourne's spring racing carnival will resume on Saturday as no cases of the flu have been seen in Victoria.Racing Victoria has also said the Melbourne Cup will go ahead as planned despite the outbreak, even if no interstate or international horses can attend.Despite fines of up to $44,000 and 12 months imprisonment in NSW there have been reports that more than 100 horse owners have been caught moving their horses. The NSW Primary Industries Minister Ian Macdonald, said it was "absolutely vital that no-one moves a horse in this state". "We will be working with police to ensure horses are at a standstill," he said.The racing bans have cost gaming companies Tabcorp and Tattersall's millions, with Tabcorp losing $65 million in revenue on the weekend. Tabcorp expects to lose around $150 million in turnover this week. Tattersall's has also said it expects to lose around $2 million in revenue per week due to the outbreak. Investors reacted to the news, slashing 3 percent of the price of Tattersall's shares and over 4 percent of those of Tabcorp.Opened in limited release on December 3, 2004 (New York City and Los Angeles, 145 screens)House of Flying Daggers is a martial-arts action/romance film.According to court papers, the attorney and partner of now deceased Anna Nicole Smith, Howard K. Stern has filed a lawsuit against a former FOX News Channel and MSNBC news anchor Rita Cosby for "assault, libel and slander." Cosby's publisher Grand Central Publishing, also known as Hachette Book Group USA is also named in the suit.The papers say that Stern accuses Cosby of publishing "false and defamatory" accusations and information against him in Cosby's new book Blonde Ambition: The Untold Story Behind Anna Nicole Smith's Death."The book is an attempt to capitalize financially on the life and tragic death of Anna Nicole Smith. The defendants have exploited Smith's life and death by publishing false and defamatory factual accusations against Stern," said the papers filed in United States District court for the southern district of New York State.Papers go on to say that Cosby also falsely accused Stern of "lewd criminal acts, homosexual acts, possessing and using cocaine, conspiring to commit murder, pimping and prostitution." There are 14 other additional charges listed in the suit including one that Cosby claimed Stern was having a homosexual love affair with Larry Birkhead, the father of Smith's youngest child.Stern is seeking at least US$60 million in damages and the suit states that a jury is requested if the case goes to trial.Cosby's publishing company refuses to comment to the press on the suit.In what may possibly be the largest Gay Pride parade in the world, hundreds of thousands of people marched along the streets of São Paulo, Brazil today in the Parada do Orgulho GLBT de São Paulo.  Many marchers were demanding the legalization of same-sex marriage.Brazil is the largest Roman Catholic country on Earth, and the Roman Catholic Church has consistently opposed the legalization of same-sex marriage in the country.  The National Congress of Brazil has debated legalization for 10 years, and such civil marriages are currently only legal in Rio Grande do Sul.  The original bill was drafted by former mayor of São Paulo, Marta Suplicy.  The proposed legislation, after being amended, is now in the hands of Roberto Jefferson.  Protesters hope to collect a petition of 1.2 million signatures to present to the National Congress in November.People carrying flags and banners, some dressed in lavish carnival costumes, walked and danced in the ninth annual Gay Pride parade, stretching for 3.5 kilometres along Avenida Paulista.  Traffic was diverted throughout most of the city, and drinks and snacks vendors took advantage of the barriers across many streets.  Prominent people joining the parade were the actor Sergio Mamberti, representing the Culture Minister Gilberto Gil, and senator Eduardo Suplicy.Organizers stated that 2.5 million people attended, and police stated that there were 1.9 million — figures which would make the event the largest of its kind in the world — including 700,000 visitors from other cities and countries.  This was an increase from 2004, when police stated that 1.5 million people attended.As of today, it is illegal to be homeless in the European country of Hungary, as a new law prohibiting it comes into effect. Those who are found to be in breach of this law will initially be given a warning for sleeping out on the streets. Offenders may also face a fine of US$600, which equates to £382 or €445, or a jail sentence. A significant majority of the National Assembly of Hungary voted in favour of the law in October of this year. The Fidesz, a ruling party in the country, proposed the law on the basis that homelessness was becoming too significant a problem for the capital Budapest. The city is thought to contain ten thousand homeless individuals.The unemployment rate for Hungary as a whole is approximately 10.7%. However, for the Romani people, this figure may rise to somewhere in between sixty and ninety per cent, according to International Business Times. 48% of those in the country without an occupation have not had one for at least twelve months, RTTNews reported.According to BBC News Online, the new law has attracted a substantial amount of criticism from various quarters, including charities supporting the homeless, that it could not be enforced, while there are too few positions available in hostels, they have claimed. Hungarian Maltese Charity Service deputy head Miklos Vecsei believed that the laws were put in place due to the dissatisfaction of the public and had not been based on any professional or rational examinations. Vecsei believes that the problem of homelessness should not be outlawed but resolved.István Tarlós, the Mayor of Budapest, told The Budapest Report that "those who believe that all problems would be solved if homeless people were given housing" would be "mistaken" in thinking so. Mate Kocsis, the Fidesz MP that created the law, said that the issue of homelessness is one that should be rectified by the local councils of Hungary, while indicating that various recently introduced plans for and positions in hostels existed. Charities for those affected by homelessness believe that this would nonetheless cause one to three thousand individuals to have no shelter to reside in. Those who do not approve of the law are preparing to demonstrate to the National Assembly in opposition of it.Actress Hunter Tylo is reported to have rejoined the cast of The Bold and the Beautiful, in the latest chapter of a rocky relationship between Tylo and the casting office. The news was first broken by entertainment magazine Soap Opera Weekly. Tylo played the role of Dr. Taylor Hamilton Forrester from 1990 until 2002, when she was killed off by villainess Sheila Carter, played by Kimberlin Brown. Taylor's love affair with Ridge Forrester (played by Ronn Moss), and the ensuing triangle with Brooke Logan (played by Katherine Kelly Lang), helped the then-fledgling soap move higher in the ratings in the early to mid-1990s. According to Soap Opera Weekly, history has been rewritten so that Taylor, in reality, did not die from her gunshot wounds back in October 2002. Her return is tied in with a 1994 storyline in which Taylor was held captive by Moroccan prince Omar (played by Indian actor Kabir Bedi). Both Tylo and Bedi are first seen on Monday, May 2.The magazine states that she has been on the set of the soap opera at CBS Television City since March 11. For a while, she didn't even tell her husband, former Guiding Light actor Michael Tylo, where she was really going. She told him that she was just going on "a lot of auditions," and that if she told sooner than she did, the news might slip out accidentally. Her husband currently teaches a class at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas and she couldn't afford any accidental hints that his students could have picked up on.This is not the first time Tylo has rejoined the series. She left in highly publicized disputes most recently in 2000 and 2001, due to a lack of story for her character. Her most publicized departure, however, was in 1996; Tylo was scheduled to join the cast of Melrose Place and was fired when Melrose's producer Aaron Spelling found out she was pregnant. She took him to court and won after nearly a year of messy legal battles. All three times she was allowed to return to the show more or less without comment.With more than 300 million viewers in nearly 100 countries, The Bold and the Beautiful is claimed to be the most-watched television series in the world.See imageHunter Tylo book cover photoAustralian swimmer Ian Thorpe is reported to be feeling much better after suffering from chest pain for some time.The Olympic gold medalist was due to swim in the 100m and 200m freestyle and in three relays at the Commonwealth Games, but due to his complaints his fitness has been in doubt. He has been unable to take the drugs needed to overcome his pain as they are banned from the Games.Thorpe told the media Thursday "It's actually the best I've felt in a while; the antibiotics are starting to work."Walter Cronkite, the American newscaster who was a household name in television journalism, has died at the age of 92, according to media reports. Cronkite died after a long battle with cerebrovascular disease.From 1962 to 1981, Cronkite anchored the CBS Evening News, and in that capacity reported the Kennedy assassination in 1963, the 1969 landing of the Apollo 11 astronauts on the Moon, and the 1974 Resignation of Richard Nixon to millions of Americans. As an editorial journalist, Cronkite's powerful criticisms of the Vietnam War reportedly moved then-president Lyndon Johnson to say, "If I've lost Cronkite, I've lost Middle America." He will be remembered by some for his customary signoff, "and that's the way it is...", which ended most of his broadcasts. Also, his addition of "day..." counting up the days of the Iranian hostage crisis inspired a similar practice on Countdown with Keith Olbermann.Cronkite's career began in radio in the 1930s in Houston, Texas. Joining UPI in 1939 as a war correspondent, he covered the Nuremberg war crimes trials following World War II. Cronkite's rise to television prominence began with the 1952 Republican National Convention. The term "news anchor" was coined to describe his role in the coverage.After retiring in 1981, Cronkite remained active and prominent in the media, advising an eponymous journalism school at Arizona State University, writing books, recording voice-overs for the film Apollo 13, and making guest appearances on the newsroom-based sitcoms The Mary Tyler Moore Show and Murphy Brown. Cronkite was also an avid sailor."It is impossible to imagine CBS News, journalism or indeed America without Walter Cronkite. More than just the best and most trusted anchor in history, he guided America through our crises, tragedies and also our victories and greatest moments," said CBS News president, Sean McManus in a statement to the press.Cronkite leaves behind three children, Nancy, Kathy, and Walter III ("Chip"); and four grandchildren.One of London's most well known murals could be restored after years of neglect if plans by a group of community activists gain public support. The Fitzrovia Mural at Whitfield Gardens on London's Tottenham Court Road was created by two mural artists and commissioned by Camden Council in 1980, but the mural has since decayed and been vandalised. Plans will be presented at a public meeting this Tuesday, to include details of the restoration and promote local public space in contrast to potential commercial developments and the focus of the London 2012 Olympics. If enough funds are raised from charitable trusts and public donations the mural could be restored during the summer of 2011. Plans to be put forward by the Fitzrovia Neighbourhood Association, and the London Mural Preservation Society, will present ways to fund not only the restoration work but also projects to raise awareness of conservation, heritage, and the residential and working community. The heritage and mural project hopes to involve many local people who could learn new conservation skills. Also planned are workshops with local children to involve them in their heritage, an exhibition by local artists, guided tours and a celebratory event at the end of the restoration project. In addition to this, a booklet would be produced containing collected oral histories of the people involved and a preservation trust to protect the mural in future years.The playful painting was created on a Camden Council-owned building in 1980 by artists Mick Jones, (son of the late Jack Jones, trade union leader) and Simon Barber and is a mash up of scenes depicting problems faced by the neighbourhood over the preceding decade. There is also a caricature of poet Dylan Thomas, who lived in Fitzrovia, and a mocking portrayal of then leader of the Greater London Council, Conservative politician Horace Cutler, who is pictured as a bat-like creature. Other characters include an anonymous greedy developer and a property speculator counting piles of cash.Peter Whyatt of the neighbourhood association is jointly leading the project to restore the mural. Yesterday he told Wikinews he had a number of concerns about the possible success of the project.“There are a great number of problems with getting this project off the ground and we also need to act pretty quickly for a number of reasons," said Mr Whyatt.“Firstly the mural is in a terrible state and deteriorating quickly. There is more graffiti being daubed on the site every month because one bit of graffiti attracts another bit. We really need to start the work in the next 12 months because going through another winter with the condition of the wall will causes more problems and inevitably more expense. We want to keep as much original artwork on the site as possible to keep the costs down. This is a big mural and it will be expensive to restore," he continued.“And that brings me to my second concern: cost. If we don’t get other community organisations on board to bid for money for this with us and to involve their beneficiaries and volunteers, it will be very difficult to secure the money needed. Money is very tight at the moment because to the current financial climate. We need to get support at this meeting on Tuesday and some firm commitments from people and organisations to get involved.“Lastly there is a danger of a commercial development on the site. A public-private partnership to create a new art feature. Because of the existing mural’s subject matter – it mocks property speculators, and land developers, etc – a commercial scheme probably backed by a property developer would not want to restore the mural’s original message. They’d want some “good news” scheme, some greenwash idea that paints them in a positive light. “However, despite these problems, Camden Council have offered to do a condition survey on the mural. This will save us a lot of money. But having said that there are five council departments to deal with to get permission for this restoration work, and they don’t always talk to each other.“But if the public and local voluntary organisations show their support, we can make it happen," Mr Whyatt concluded. The mural restoration will be just one part of a year long project of heritage and conservation awareness-raising. "The project is not just about the mural but also wider plans to promote awareness of heritage and conservation in an area of London under threat from commercial development. In fact the bulk of the project is about the heritage and conservation and the mural is just one part of it, and the most visible because of its situation," Mr Whyatt later added.There will be a public meeting about the heritage and mural project at 7.30 pm tomorrow  (Tuesday), at the Neighbourhood Centre, 39 Tottenham Street. The public can also comment about the proposals on the Fitzrovia Heritage and Mural website.Hours after the premiere, files purporting to be computer-viewable copies of the movie Star Wars III: Revenge of the Sith were available on internet filesharing networks.The film, which is one of the years most eagerly anticipated, has already been downloaded by over 16,000 people through the BitTorrent file-sharing network. Some torrent downloaders reported being able to download the movie at "DVD-quality" as early as 11pm Eastern on May 18th, an hour before the US premiere. The versions available thus far are however "workprint copies." As such these copies have a large time indicator on the top of the screen.Although Lucasfilm has not yet commented on the issue, the Motion Picture Association of America has condemned it, telling the media, "There is no better example of how theft dims the magic of the movies for everyone than this report today regarding BitTorrent providing users with illegal copies of 'Revenge of the Sith.'"It should be noted that the Bit Torrent network, by design, does not provide files itself.  It only allows computers using it's program to form connections with other Bit Torrent computers on the internet to provide files on each individual computer.  Thus the MPAA's statement of "BitTorrent providing users with illegal copies of 'Revenge of the Sith'" is factually incorrect.Despite the downloading, the latest Star Wars movie grossed a record breaking $50 million dollars it first day. [1]The Benet Academy Redwings defeated the Carmel Catholic Corsairs 51–33 last Friday. The victory brings Benet's league record to an unbeaten 4–0 in the East Suburban Catholic Conference. The Redwings headed into the game hosted at Mundelein, Illinois, United States, with a record of 10–3, having lost three of its last five games. Benet's last two defeats came within two points each against Lockport Township High School and Whitefish Bay High School in Wisconsin.The Corsairs, with a record of 7–9 after the game, lagged behind with a score of 4–20 after the first eight minutes. Benet's Dan Sobolewski scored a game-high 11 points, and his teammate Dylan Flood scored nine, seven of which he scored in the first quarter. Frank Kaminsky scored ten. On the other side, Carmel's Jon Huisel, who also scored ten points, went up against Kaminsky and "held him in check." Teammate Patrick Cox scored eight points and had five rebounds and three blocked shots."But they are a good team," Carmel coach John Ryan said of Benet. "They haven't lost in conference, and I think they beat a good St. Patrick team by 14 points (41–27)."The Geneva High School girls basketball team defeated Glenbard West High School 68–41 last Tuesday, winning the championship title in the tournament hosted by Benet Academy and Naperville North High School. It was the Geneva Vikings' 41st consecutive regular season victory since the 2007–2008 season, bringing their undefeated record up to 14–0. After the first half of the game, in which both teams had trouble with the other's zone defense and had little offensive flow, the Glenbard West Hilltoppers brought their score to within 22–28 in the third quarter, forcing the Vikings to call a timeout. After eight straight possessions in which they scored at least two points each, the Vikings had a 19–7 run that brought their score up to 47–29 before the end of the third quarter."We seem to be more of a second half team — that's when we come out and put pressure on people," said Viking Kat Yelle. Senior center Lauren Wicinski scored 17 out of her 21 points in the second half after spending a lot of time on the bench in the first half due to foul trouble. The second half also saw an emphasis on unselfish passing; of the Vikings' 17 field goals in the second half, ten came on assists.Geneva will play it's next game against arch-rival and host Batavia High School on January 2 at 6 pm.Immaculate Conception High School defeated Wheaton Academy 52–41 last Wednesday, earning the championship title in the Lisle Holiday Cage Classic, a basketball tournament in Lisle, Illinois, United States.It was the first championship game, and obviously the first championship win, for the Immaculate Conception Knights, which headed into this weekend with a 16–1 record, having won 16 games at the Lisle tournament.With 3:10 left in the second quarter, both teams were tied 16–16. The Knights stepped up their offense with a 9–0 burst, bringing their score to 25–16 at halftime. Wheaton Academy didn't apply its usual full-court pressure, perhaps out of respect for Kasey Reaber's ball handling skills. They instead hoped to use a different defensive strategy. Of her game-high 18 points, Kasey Reaber scored ten in the third quarter, helping to give her team a 40–26 lead at the end. The Knights' lead grew to 50–30 in the fourth quarter."[Kasey Reaber] is just a phenomenal player. Her first step and that dribble penetration is hard to defend," said Wheaton Academy coach Beth Mitchell. Her tournament-MVP sister, Taylor Reaber, scored ten points during the game. Both Reabers are former students of Driscoll Catholic High School.Alexa Sharkey scored ten points for Wheaton Academy, and Meghan Grant nine. With a record of 12–2, the team was kept well below its average of 53 points per game in a contest.Legislation banning the slaughter of horses for human consumption in Illinois, was signed into law today by Governor Rod Blagojevich."It’s past time to stop slaughtering horses in Illinois and sending their meat overseas. I’m proud to sign this law that finally puts an end to this practice," Governor Blagojevich said.Most states in the United States have already outlawed horse slaughter. Illinois was the last state with an operating slaughterhouse. At the beginning of the year there were also two slaughterhouses in Texas. That state has had a ban since 1949, but it was not being enforced. A lawsuit ended with the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit declining to hear further appeals, forcing them to shut down in March.Sid Miller, a State Representative in Texas and the chairperson for the House Agriculture and Livestock Committee, has sponsored legislation to repeal the 1949 ban. However, his last proposal died in committee."People were selling horses not knowing that they were being used and treated like livestock and ended up on the slaughter room floor," said Illinois Senator John Cullerton. "This bill will ensure that using horses for the purpose of human consumption is illegal throughout the State of Illinois just as it is in 48 other states in the nation.""There is no domestic market for horsemeat and, therefore, no need for this practice to continue in Illinois," State Agriculture Director Chuck Hartke said. "Meat from the slaughtered horses is being shipped overseas to places like Belgium, France and Japan."Wayne Pacelle of the Humane Society of the United States told CBS News that 100,800 horses were slaughtered in the United States, last year, with a further 30,000 horses being sent to Canada and Mexico for slaughter. Opponents of the new law say horses should be considered to be in the same category as cattle or other livestock. They say that horses are killed humanely. They point out that the slaughterhouses provide jobs.The consumption of horse meat has a long history, but in some cultures it is considered taboo. Some places it is a delicacy, and yet others it is just another staple food.New Orleans-based band Imagination Movers have announced that they will be shooting a pilot for the Disney Channel this December.The band reached a deal with Disney this April to distribute their music through Disney Records, after a year of negotiations. The series is set to debut on Playhouse Disney in 2007. Since September, their music videos have been on rotation on The Disney Channel.Nancy Kanter, the senior vice president of programming for Playhouse Disney, first discovered the movers at the Kids Tent of the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival. "We sat in the hot Kids Tent and were just blown away to see the response to them. We'd heard their CDs, but when you actually sit there with a couple hundred preschoolers and, in some cases, older kids, and see the way they react to the music, we thought, 'This is for us.'"The Movers launched Playhouse Disney's concert series, playing at MGM Studios' ABC Theater from 18-24 September. The band is playing a Halloween concert on 21 August 2006, in New Orleans.Imagination Movers are a kids band formed in 2003. Indie Kids Rock reviewed the group in May, saying they were "the U2 of kids music with a big anthemic pop/rock sound, catchy lyrics, & of course, imagination." The group includes Rich Collins, Scott Durbin, Dave Poche and Scott "Smitty" Smith. While all four members had at least "dabbled" in music, Durbin was a computer instructor, Collins worked in online journalism, Poche as an architect, Smith as a firefighter.The 28th annual Immigrant's Festival began in the Argentine city of Oberá, located in the center of Misiones. On September 6th, the inaugural parade began in the civic center of the city, and more than 15 collectivities crossed Oberá's principal streets showing their traditional wardrobe to visitors.The parade culminated in the "Parque de las Naciones" with the current candidate for governor of Misiones, Maurice Closs, present. After 6pm, the national queen and the others authorities completed the traditional ribbon cutting ceremony, officially inaugurating the 28th Immigrant's Festival."We try to honor our forbears, their history, their culture, their music, their food; and also transmit to the young men who join every collectivity" declared Ewaldo Rinsfleich, the mayor of Oberá. "We hope that each person that visits us today and in the course of these days find and discover a corner of their past in the Parque de las Naciones", added the mayor.On September 15th, La Mancha de Rolando, La 25 y Lourdes will do their presentation. On the next day, the national immigrant's queen will be chosen.This in-depth page will track Wikinews and outside articles to provide you with up to date information about the merger deal. As new actions regarding the merger occur, they can get posted below.Every year around November 5th, people in Great Britain and some parts of the Commonwealth celebrate Guy Fawkes night to commemorate the dissident from York and his Roman Catholic conspirators who failed to blow up the houses of Parliament on November 5, 1605. This so-called Gunpowder Plot is celebrated with firework displays and sparklers, bonfires and Guy Fawkes effigies.Fire experts, always busy around this time of year, have called for the use of safe and legal firework displays and have urged citizens to attend organised public displays. Every year dozens of people sustain injuries due to careless handling of fireworks or fires. Notably, the city of York is not having a public firework display this year, as health and safety measures would raise costs excessively.Events in Lewes, East Sussex (noted for Bonfire events and processions) were for the most part peacful, with only 16 arrests, mainly for public order offences. There had however been calls for certain tradtions of the Lewes events to be banned prior to the event on safety grounds.Critics say that bonfires and fireworks are not environmentally friendly. Piles of wood prepared beforehand are attractive nests for hibernating creatures like hedgehogs, who might burn in the bonfires. Some even suggest that Fawkes' failed attack is not something to commemorate at all.In Germany 30,000 students demonstrate in 5 big cities against study fees. People think, that paying for information is not socially compatible and gives only privileged people the chance to get in depth information. Germans demand a broad and free education for every citizen of the world. In the next weeks, students will fight for justice and show solidarity with the Countries of the Federal Republic, which want to already demand study fees in the next term.At this time, the first education in Germany is free, but the Federation decided days ago, that the states of the Federal Republic can create their own financing concepts, because CDU governed states complained against the Federation.Several German states partly plan to plug budget gaps with the money from the young people willing to give their power for a broadly educated Germany.On Tuesday, the press and members of the National Turkey Federation gathered in large numbers at the White House's Rose Garden in the United States to witness an annual Thanksgiving tradition in the U.S., a presidential pardon of two Thanksgiving turkeys.Every year, a U.S. President gives a pardon to two turkeys, saving them from being put on a dinner table somewhere in America. This year, President George W. Bush pardoned two turkeys named May and Flower, who were both chosen for the pardon by the citizens of the U.S."Each of you is taking part in a tradition that goes back to the days of Harry Truman. And to paraphrase Harry today, we have a message for our two feathered friends: You cannot take the heat -- and you're definitely going to stay out of the kitchen. I thank everybody who voted online to choose the names for our guests of honor. And I'm pleased to announce the winning names [May and Flower]. [These names are] certainly better than the names the vice president suggested, which was Lunch and Dinner," Bush said jokingly.After receiving the pardons, the turkeys got a special ride in a three-car motorcade to Dulles Airport, which included an array of lights, sirens and police motorcycles. From there, both turkeys were flown to Orlando, Florida on a plane dubbed United Turkey One where they were the Grand Marshalls for today's Thanksgiving Day parade in Walt Disney World. Both turkeys received a welcome which included a red carpet, and free passes to the park."So now I have a task, and that is to grant a full presidential pardon to May and Flower. They'll be shortly flown to Disney World, where they will serve as Honorary Grand Marshals for the Thanksgiving Day Parade. I hope that honor doesn't go to their head. May they live the rest of their lives in blissful gobbling. And may all Americans enjoy a holiday full of love and peace. God bless you all," added Bush.Indians paid tribute today to the father of the nation, Mohandas Karamchand Mahatma Gandhi on the 137th anniversary of his birth. Several dignitaries, including President A.P.J Abdul Kalam, Vice-President Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, Congress Party President Sonia Gandhi and the Leader of the Opposition L.K Advani paid homage to the Mahatma (great soul) at his memorial in Rajghat in New Delhi. Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh was unable to attend the event as he is currently in South Africa on an official visit.The leaders paid floral tributes to Gandhiji at the mausoleum and attended an inter-religious prayer meeting. A 24-hour marathon spinning of the charka (used during the swadeshi movement) is also in progress. The cast of the Bollywood film Lage Raho Munnabhai also participated in a peace-march in Mumbai. The event was organised by MP Priya Dutt, and was also attended by eminent actors such as Shabana Azmi.The centenary of the satyagraha movement launched by Gandhiji was also marked this year. Mahatma Gandhi played an important part in the freedom struggle, such as launching the Non-Cooperation, Boycott and Quit India movements against the oppressive British Raj in India. Gandhiji, or Bapu as he is affectionately referred to, was a follower of ahimsa (non-violence) and used it in the freedom-struggle.The Film Federation of India confirmed today that Rakeysh Mehra's Rang De Basanti would be India's entry for the Best Foreign Film Award at the Oscars. The Aamir Khan starring blockbuster has received much critical acclaim and the story (dealing with "new-age" nationalism) reportedly struck a chord with millions of viewers, both in India and abroad. A 12-member panel including Basu Chatterjee, Kalpana Lajmi, N Chandra, Aadesh Srivastava and Ved Rahi selected Rang De Basanti from a line-up of Bollywood hits, including Omkara, Lage Raho Munnabhai, Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna and Krrish. Only three Indian films- Lagaan (2001), Mother India (1957),  and Salaam Bombay (1988) have made it to the Academy Awards short-list thus far.The 2006 Man Booker Prize was awarded to Kiran Desai, for her fictional work The Inheritance of Loss. The 35-year-old is the youngest woman, and the third Indian, to win the £ 50,000 award. After two hours of deliberation, Hermione Lee, (chairwoman of the judges) announced that the panel had chosen Desai's second novel over the other shortlisted entries- In the Country of Men by Hisham Matar, The Secret River by Kate Grenville, Carry Me Dow by M. J. Hyland, Mother's Milk by Edward St Aubyn and The Night Watch by Sarah Waters. "This is a magnificent novel of humane breadth and wisdom, comic tenderness and powerful political acuteness.", Lee said, adding that the judges had "felt strongly about" and "admired" all the entries, and that The Inheritance of Loss was not a "compromise" choice. While accepting the award, Desai said, "I didn't expect to win. I don't have a speech. My mother told me I must wear a sari... a family heirloom, but it's completely transparent!" After expressing her gratitude to her publisher, editor and agent, she added, "I'm Indian and so I'm going to thank my parents." Kiran Desai's mother Anita Desai is also an author, and three of her works have been shortlisted for the prize. The Inheritance of Loss deals with issues such as globalisation, and life in rural India. The book, set in New York and the Himalayas, deals with an embittered judge and his desire to enjoy a peaceful retired life."I was very conscious of the emotional territory that I wanted to capture, in terms of the story, I didn't know at all what it was going to be, I think I wrote in every direction - the story of immigrants in New York, my parents, my grandparents, my journey. But yes, I was aware of the certain sort of emotional landscape, darkness, worry and fear that this journey between East and West causes.", said Kiran Desai of her work.The Booker Prize was founded in 1969 and is considered one of the most prestigious honour given to authors whose works have been published in Britain, Ireland and the Commonwealth. The honour was renamed the Man-Booker Prize after the Man Group began sponsoring it.India's 2011 census reports  that its population  has increased by 181 million in the span of one decade, a figure  17.6 percent greater than  2001. The census results, publicised today, show the population of India now stands at 1.21 billion. C. Chandramauli, the commissioner of the census, said India's population represents "over 17 percent of the world population, [while] India is 2.4 percent of the world’s surface area." According to BBC News Online, the current population of the country is in excess of the populations of Pakistan, Indonesia,  Bangladesh, Brazil and the United States put together. While India's population has increased by more than 17 percent since the 2001 census, this growth rate is the lowest since India achieved independence in 1947. Between 1991 and 2011, the population growth rate has steadily decreased. Approximately 25 percent of Indians over the age of seven were found to be illiterate in the 2011 census, a decrease of 10 percent from the census held ten years ago. The increase in literate females is greater than that of males, the new census reports. The findings have suggested a preference of male over female children. For every one thousand boys below the age of seven, there were 914 girls, a decrease from the 2001 census, which reported 927 female for every one thousand male children. Chandramauli called this discovery "a matter of grave concern. This is the lowest ever in the demographic history of the country," he said, and noted "[t]he last census in 2001 had warned us about this, the tendency has worsened." This pattern continues although the Indian government has prohibited hospitals from disclosing the gender of an unborn child.According to The Washington Post, parents in much of India abort female fetuses and murder young female children for financial reasons. Incidents like this occur more frequently in the better educated and the richer Indian states, including Punjab and Gujarat. G.K. Pillai, the home secretary, has claimed that "[w]hatever policy measures we have been following in the last 40 years will need a complete review now. They have not been effective".There are now 940 female adults for every one thousand men, in contrast to 2001, when there were 933 women per thousand males. However, in the capital, Delhi, only 866 females were counted for every one thousand males.Throughout the states of India, the population growth rate varies significantly. This results in an inequality in the allocation of funds and is a problem, experts say.  According to Management Institute of Population and Development consultant Devendra Kothari: "Our federal government sends funds to the states according to their population. This means that the states that have worked harder to reduce their population growth get less money from New Delhi". Kothari continued: "The states with lesser population send fewer members to the Indian parliament. Their financial and political clout will go down."Over the course of the approaching year, concluding census figures will be publicised, according to officials.Indian film actor Om Puri died this morning of heart failure at his Mumbai home, according to reports. He was 66.Born in Haryana in 1950, Puri trained at the Film and Television Institute of India. He starred in both arthouse and conventional movies, making his début in Ghashiram Kotwal in 1976. He gained national prominence in the 1980s and 1990s. Internationally, he starred in British, Hollywood, and Pakistani projects.Two weeks ago Puri was looking back on his career on Twitter. "I have no regrets at all. I have done quite well for myself. I didn't have a conventional face, but I have done well, and I am proud of it." Honours include the National Film Award for Best Actor in 1982, the Padma Shri in 1990, and an honorary Order of the British Empire award in 2004. His wife Nandita and son Ishaan survive him. Tributes have come from colleagues in the film industry, and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Friend Ananth Mahadevan, an actor and director, called the death "a personal loss and a loss to cinema because he was truly India's international star."The Indian Government is planning to introduce legislation to ensure that cantonments, churches and cemeteries built by the British during the Raj are preserved as heritage structures. There are 62 cantonments and 650 military stations in the country, some of which are in disrepair. The new law will ensure that the Army does its bit to prevent other such structures from becoming dilapidated.One example is the St. Martin's Church which was founded in 1929 by Field Marshall Sir William Birdwood of the British Indian Army. The plaster has peeled off the structures cracked walls, and heavy seepage has damaged the dome. The church also serves as a makeshift school-cum-storehouse for local residents.Conservation Architect Ratish Nanda said the move is significant because it will not only protect heritage in the cantonments but also areas around it, adding that cantonments will "show the way forward". Urban Designer K T Ravindran said, "This law means that areas where we have built heritage will not fall into the hands of open market." Some of the main aims of the law are to ensure that:–The Indian Army follows schemes of restricting construction and development plans in the cantonment area.Preemptive measures are taken to protect heritage.Construction that affects heritage buildings is carried out only after permission is obtained from the Cantonment Board.Any construction disfiguring a heritage site can be challenged in a court of law.The Cantonment Board conserves and maintains ancient and historical monuments.Producers of India's Big Brother have said that an upcoming celebrity edition will have a ban on "hanky-panky".A spokeswoman for Endemol India told BBC News that contestants will have to remain chaste in the Big Brother house for three months. "Participants will be told to keep their hands to themselves," she revealed. "India is a conservative society and it is not ready for the raunchy scenes that so characterise the programmes in the West," she added. And unlike other versions of Big Brother around the world, India's version will not be transmitted live in a bid to avoid showing unpleasant scenes which may cause controversy. It is understood that up to twelve contestants will participate in the show, which is to be televised at the end of this year. The show’s producers have said they want stars from Bollywood, Indian television and cricket to live in the Big Brother compound. The managing director of Endemol India, Rajesh Kamat, said both Hindus and Muslims may be chosen, but that issues between religions would not be talked about on the programme. India is still quite a conservative society. Close acts like kissing are never seen on TV, and only a small number of couples cohabit before marriage.In 2006, two housemates were removed from Australia's version of Big Brother after apparently sexually assaulting a female contestant. Big Brother was created in the Netherlands in 1999 and has sold to almost seventy different countries.Indian filmmaker Baldev Raj Chopra has died of "ailments relating to old age" in his home in Juhu at the age of 94, according a spokesperson for Yash Raj Films. The actor died at 0830 local time.Chopra, who was born in 1914, is most famous for his films documenting issues which were relevant to society at the time of their production. These include Dhool Ka Phool (1959), Waqt (1965) and Naya Daur (1957), Kanoon (1958), Hamraaz (1967), Insaaf Ka Tarazu (1980) and Nikaah (1982).The filmmaker won several awards during his life, including Lifetime Achievement at the 1999 Bombay International Film Festival, the 2004 Filmfare Awards and the 1996 Screen Weekly Awards. He also won the award for best director in the 1960 Filmfare Awards for his role in producing Kanoon.He is survived by his son Ravi Chopra, who is also a filmmaker. Chopra was cremated in Mumbai yesterday afternoon.File:Jagjit Singh performing at Symphony Hall, Birmingham, 12 September 2008.jpgIndian ghazal singer Jagjit Singh died today at 8:10 am IST after a brain haemorrhage at the age of 70.He was admitted to Lilivati Hospital in Mumbai just before a scheduled performance on September 23. Despite surgery, he remained on life support.Called "The Ghazal King", he sang in several languages.  He also received the Padma Bhushan award. His death was the top story on most Pakistani news agencies' websites.Indian Member of Parliament Asaduddin Owaisi is demanding the arrest of writers who read excerpts from banned novel The Satanic Verses at the Jaipur Literature Festival. "Reading from a banned book is a deliberate provocation and proof that the festival is a forum for Islam-bashing," Owaisi said.Rushdie was due to attend the festival but backed out, alleging death threats from the Mumbai underworld. British writer Hari Kunzru and many others read short passages from the book to support Rushdie despite efforts to stop them. Kunzru said on Twitter he sought "to defy bigots".Owaisi wants police to act under sections 153 A and 295 A of the Indian Penal code, which deal with religious matters. Organisers of the event said they had no idea that Kunzru and others would act as they did. They added that any illegal action at the festival would not be entertained.The Satanic Verses is controversial and is condemned by the Islamic community. Rushdie lived in hiding for years following the then Iranian spiritual leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, calling for his death soon after the book's publication.Members of the Indian Parliament across party lines urged the Indian government to protect the Bhagavad Gita, one of the most sacred Hindu texts, from a legal ban in Russia. Hindu followers rallied in front of the Kolkata Russian consulate protesting the ban. Thousands signed an on-line petition to stop the trial, and the hashtag #Gita surged to a leading trend in Indian cyberspace. Accused of fostering extremism and "social discord" by the Tomsk, Siberia state prosecutors office, Bhagavad Gita As It Is, a translation of the ancient poem admired by Leo Tolstoy and Albert Einstein, now faces the prospect of ending up on Russia's Federal List of Extremist Materials – along with Hitler's Mein Kampf – and being banned from distribution.Reporting to the Parliament on the issue, External Affairs Minister S. M. Krishna Tuesday denounced the trial as a "patently absurd" action of "some ignorant and misdirected or motivated individuals" and assured the House that his Ministry has taken up the issue with senior Russian authorities, hoping for an appropriate resolution.  S. M. Krishna also referred to the Gita as "one of the defining treatises of Indian thought" saying that it "describes the very soul of our great civilization".On a similar note, Russian Ambassador to India Alexandr Kadakin condemned the court case as "categorically inadmissible" and called its instigators "madmen".The court's ruling on the matter is expected on  December 28.The legendary Indian shehnai maestro Ustad Bismillah Khan Sahib (March 21, 1916 - August 21, 2006) was the third classical musician to be awarded the Bharat Ratna (in 2001), the highest civilian honour in India. According to the Indian Home Ministry officials, the musical maestro would be given a state funeral. Flags would be flown at half mast in all the government buildings as part of the mourning. He also had the distinction of heralding in India's Independence, mesmerizing audiences before the start of Pandit Nehru's speech and the unfurling of the tricolour on August 15, 1947. Ustad Bismillah Khan Sahib was one of the few people to be awarded all the top four civilian awards.The new film about the fictional character Dr. Henry "Indiana" Jones Jr. played by Harrison Ford premiered worldwide on May 22, four days after the opening of the 61st Cannes Film Festival in France.The film is about the fictional mystery surrounding the crystal skulls, which do exist in reality, but are considered fakes by some sceptical scientists. "Some of them are quite good, but some of them look like they were produced with a Black & Decker in someone's garage", Professor Ian Freestone of Cardiff University said, arguing that the ancient Aztecs or Mayans might not have had instruments with modern tool capabilities for the task.The film was directed by Steven Spielberg and produced by George Lucas (Lucasfilm).Alongside Ford, the film features stars Shia LaBeouf and Cate Blanchett. The latter of the two was 'butched up' for the role of the Soviet agent, the main villain in the film.Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull was rated PG-13 and runs 2 hours and 3 minutes. The film budget was US$185 million and it will need to gross US$400 million or more at theatres to make a profit for Paramount Pictures.The previous film of the franchise was released in May of 1989 — 19 years ago.At least four people died and forty were injured Saturday night as the result of a stage collapsing at the Indiana State Fair, located within the US state of Indiana. The Indianapolis Star has attributed the incident to poor weather. A storm with wind speeds as high as 60 miles per hour (96 kilometres per hour) had been reported.Captain Brad Weaver, an Indiana State Police employee, described witnessing "the framework from the stage start to come over", having given a public safety announcement shortly prior to the collapse. Numerous patients, including adults and children, have been admitted to hospital. Weaver claimed that the incident could not have been prevented. Video footage of the incident, which has now emerged online, displays witnesses screaming as the rigging falls down.One witness, who has been identified only as Chris, informed the BBC of the events he sighted. "We could see the sky get really dark and there was lightening and thunder. It almost seemed like a hurricane hit out of nowhere. The stage just leaned to the right and crashed down. It felt to me like it was in slow motion. Everyone was scrambling and it was horrifying because you knew people were underneath it." He described the incident as "the worst thing I have witnessed in my life." David Lindquist, a journalist for The Indianapolis Star, described the scenario as "bad, very bad", and that one "could clearly see people were under the footprint of the rigging." Freeing trapped victims from underneath the wreckage took rescue workers under twenty minutes, according to Lindquist. No performers were left injured.A Twitter account representing the Indiana State Fair confirmed the fatalities and stated that their "prayers are with the families of all affected". At the time of the incident — approximately 2100 EST Saturday night or 0000 UTC Sunday morning — US country music band Sugarland were about to perform. Band members Kristian Bush and Jennifer Nettles spoke out after the accident on social networking website Twitter. They said: "We are all right. We are praying for our fans, and the people of Indianapolis. We hope you'll join us. They need your strength."Sara Bareilles, another scheduled performer at the event, also commented on Twitter. Bareilles said she was "speechless" and felt "hopeless" in the aftermath of the situation. "Please send love and prayers to Indianapolis tonight. My heart aches for the lives lost."The Indonesian Ministry of Communications and Information Technology has announced that the government will be banning pornographic sites in the country. The announcement comes before the Islamic holiday of Ramadan.The ministry conducted a technical test of the banning program with the six largest internet service providers in Indonesia — Telkom, Telkomsel, Indosat, IM2, Bakrie Telecom, and XL Axiata. The ministry is optimistic that their ban will make 80% of pornographic sites inaccessable in the Southeast Asian country.The People's Republic of China runs a similar program that blocks pornographic websites.Communications minister Tifatul Sembiring said that about 200 ISPs in Indonesia had agreed to block the websites. Sembiring also said that ISPs would not suffer any losses by blocking pornographic websites.He also added that the ministry would adopt the same approach used by YouTube, which involves constantly monitoring offensive content which, when discovered, is immediately removed.Croatian poet Dragutin Tadijanović died last week in Zagreb, Croatia. He was 101 years old.Born on November 4, 1905 in Rastušje, Slavonia, Croatia, he was erudite cordially referred to as 'Bard' in Croatia.He published his first poem in 1922. He graduated in literature and philosophy at the University of Zagreb in 1937.He worked as the lecturer of the official paper Narodne novine (1935-1940), taught at the Academy of Arts in Zagreb (1939-1945). Later he worked at the publishing house "Zora", "Hrvatski pjesnici", as well as Matica hrvatska, before becoming an editor at the [what?]. He joined the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts's Literary Institute, where he became the director in 1953 and served until his retirement in 1973. He was the president of the Society of Croatian Writers in 1964-1965, and he also became an academician of the Academy.Apart from being among the longest living writers in Croatian history, Tadijanović held distinction as one of the most popular and most influential Croatian poets of 20th century. His poem Balada o zaklanim ovcama (Ballad of Slaughtered Sheep), written in 1930s, is one of the most powerful works of Croatian literature.He was among the longest living writers in Croatian history, with generations studying his poems in school. His last couple of birthdays were marked with reports on national TV, awards and other special events and his commemoration ceremony was held at the Old City Hall on uphill Zagreb attended by the Mayor of Zagreb and other political and cultural officials.Yesterday morning, English drummer Ginger Baker died in a hospital at the age of 80. The news came from the Twitter account in his name and was independently confirmed by Associated Press with his daughter Nettie Baker. On September 25, it was reported Baker was hospitalized in critical condition. Baker was widely known as the drummer and co-founder of the rock band Cream, an early supergroup.Baker, a life-long smoker and former heroin addict, suffered from health problems for years. The list of ailments included hearing loss, osteoarthritis, emphysema and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, as well as heart problems for which he had surgery in 2016. Although known to have lived his latter years in South Africa, his daughter said he died in Britain without elaborating.Ginger Baker was born Peter Edward Baker in Lewisham, London, in 1939. His father was killed in combat in 1943 during World War II. Baker — who was reportedly nicknamed Ginger due to his red hair — began playing drums in his teens. In a story he sometimes told, he had a habit of tapping on school desks. When an opportunity arose at a party, his classmates encouraged him to sit down at a drum set. "I'd never sat behind a kit before, but I sat down — and I could play! One of the musicians turned round and said, 'Bloody hell, we've got a drummer', and I thought, 'Bloody hell, I'm a drummer' ", he recalled in a 2009 retelling of the story to the The Independent.Baker began his career as a drummer in jazz bands. He played with Acker Bilk and Terry Lightfoot. In 1962, when fellow drummer Charlie Watts was leaving Blues Incorporated for The Rolling Stones, Watts recommended Baker to be his replacement. Later, Baker found early success with rhythm and blues band The Graham Bond Organisation where he met bassist Jack Bruce.In 1966, Baker, Bruce and singer/guitarist Eric Clapton, who was known from The Yardbirds, formed Cream. The rock trio was a massive success, selling tens of millions of records, including the first ever platinum certified album Wheels of Fire. Cream recorded four albums, then in 1968 disbanded with Baker and Bruce having developed a volatile relationship. Clapton and Baker were subsequently in another supergroup Blind Faith with Steve Winwood and Ric Grech. Blind Faith recorded only one studio album but notably played before a crowd of a hundred thousand at a free concert in London's Hyde Park.In the 1970s, Baker moved to Nigeria where he established a studio and began playing polo. Here he collaborated with Fela Kuti and worked on Wings's album Band on the Run with Paul McCartney of The Beatles fame. Later, he recorded with John Lydon's Public Image Ltd.Cream was inducted in 1993 into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. The band reunited in 2005 for several London and New York concerts. Afterwards he moved to South Africa, and still lived there when the 2012 documentary Beware of Mr. Baker was filmed. Baker's last recording was 2014's Why? solo album. Baker retired from live performances in 2016 due to his ill health.Paul McCartney wrote on Twitter, "Ginger Baker, great drummer, wild and lovely guy. We worked together on the 'Band on the Run' album in his ARC Studio, Lagos, Nigeria. Sad to hear that he died but the memories never will.""A very sad loss, and my condolences to his family and friends. A loss also for his contribution to music. He was well-grounded in jazz from very early on," wrote Steve Winwood in a statement. "Beneath his somewhat abrasive exterior, there was a very sensitive human being with a heart of gold. He’ll be missed."Mick Jagger of The Rolling Stones also reacted on Twitter, "Sad news hearing that Ginger Baker has died, I remember playing with him very early on in Alexis Korner's Blues Incorporated. He was a fiery but extremely talented and innovative drummer."Papyrologists at Oxford University in England last week reported major literary finds in examining old fragments of papyrus with a new technique: multi-spectral imaging (MSI).  The fragments were unearthed near the buried town of Oxyrhynchus, Egypt in a major archaeological find a century ago. Many of the fragments were unable to be read until now.Swedish director Ingmar Bergman, a filmmaker widely regarded as one of the great masters of modern cinema, died today at his home on Fårö, Gotland, Sweden. He was 89. The exact cause of death is not known."It's an unbelievable loss for Sweden, but even more so internationally," Astrid Söderbergh Widding, president of The Ingmar Bergman Foundation, told Associated Press."This is an enormous loss, not only for artistic Sweden but because he was one of the most well-known Swedes in the world," Jon Asp, a spokesperson for the Ingmar Bergman Foundation, said in a telephone interview with Bloomberg. "Had it not been for his struggles in the 40s and 50s, Swedish directors such as Jan Troell and Bo Widerberg may not have been able to make films.""He was one of the world's biggest personalities. There were Kurosawa, Fellini and then Bergman. Now he is also gone," Danish director Bille August said to Associated Press. "It is a great loss. I am in shock."Hungarian director István Szabó told MTI: "The Bergman films are to viewers like the novels of a great novelist, the poems of a great poet or the works of a great drama writer ... He valued contact with the audience very much and the story which can be told to them, while he did not attribute a great value to stories which can only be understood by snobs and highly qualified aesthetes."The International Football Association Board (IFAB), the body that decides on the laws of the game, has decided to discontinue all experiments involving technology, and for the first time has also decided on the exact size of a soccer field.Instead of pursuing the idea of using cameras or microchips in the ball to see if it has crossed the goal-line, the International Board wants to see if the introduction of two extra assistant referees can improve the quality of referee's decisions.FIFA general secretary Jerome Valcke declared: "We have decided to freeze for the time being the goal-line technology and all technology experiments. We will look on these two additional referees and we avoid considering any goal-line technology during this time."FIFA President Sepp Blatter said the move was necessary to maintain the universal spirit of the game: "We have 260 million people directly involved in the game. If we maintain the laws of the game ... it's so easy to understand ... We have to live with errors, football has to keep its human face.""We have to maintain the laws of the game in their simplicity. Do you want technical devices to take decisions? That's why, after three years of tests with no conclusions, I am in favour of putting the whole thing on ice," Blatter explained.UEFA president Michel Platini agreed: "Football should stay human, but two more officials can help, especially around the goal." Platini made the suggestion to freeze all investigations into technology and to try two additional assistants behind each goal.Blatter said the system using the microchip "was very complicated, needing electrified lines on the field of play and other devices including antennae and when we tested it in Tokyo last year there was one mistake during the seven matches we used as an experiment at the Club World Championship." With regards to the system using cameras, he pointed to "problems with players obscuring the views of the cameras, or of flares or weather conditions."The system of the extra referees will be tested at an upcoming FIFA or UEFA tournament, and a final ruling is expected at next year's meeting, according to FIFA's Jerome Valcke.Hawk-Eye, the company that was working on the goal-line technology that is already being used for line calls in tennis, reacted with disappointment: "I'm livid, it is completely out of the blue... A year ago they met and gave us four criteria to meet and we have met all of them, yet they have kicked it out now... We have invested an awful lot of money and now we have no return on that investment," director Paul Hawkins said. He said he was encouraged to continue research on the project only 10 days ago at a private showing for IFAB members at Reading's Madejski Stadium.While the Welsh FA were also against the idea, the English Football Association supported the use of technology and was hoping to start using it by next season. The FA clubs and referees supported the use of Hawk-Eye technology, said Mike Foster, general secretary of the English Premier League. A spokesperson of the Premier League said that "A lot of time, money and effort has gone into developing a system that meets all the criteria laid down last year." The Scottish and Northern Irish FA also voted in favour of the goal-line technology.FA chief executive Brian Barwick expressed his disappointment at the annual meeting of the IFAB in Gleneagles, Scotland:  "We were in favour of goal-line technology but there will be no more experiments and it will not be back on the agenda next year, or in the foreseeable future." FIFA President Blatter denied ulterior motives for the decision: "There has been no change of heart. Referees make decisions, not machines... I have defended goal-line technology but it has become clear that such systems are too complicated and very costly. Nor would they necessarily add anything positive to the game and could harm the authority of the referee."The international entry mail art show SAT: An Exhibit of Chairs was put on display Friday in Brampton, Ontario, Canada. Held in the Fridge Front Gallery at the Shoppers World Brampton mall, SAT is a diverse collection of artworks focusing on a generally mundane object, the chair.Works in the show range from realism to abstract, dadaism to surrealism, post-modern to collage.While some of the entries were submitted directly to Visual Arts Brampton, most came from a previous exhibit. Organized by Pati Bristow, No place to rest, chairs you can't sit on ran at Shopping Trolley Gallery West and Seaman's Library at Foothill College, both in Los Altos Hills, California, earlier in 2005. Guest curator Nicholas Moreau was unaware of the similarly themed exhibit, held so soon before. The theme for SAT was based on that of a 1987 juried art show organized by Visual Arts Brampton at the now-defunct Chinguacousy Library Gallery.Works in Visual Arts Brampton's showing of the exhibition are from 17 countries including Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Romania, Spain, Uruguay, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America.This is Visual Arts Brampton's third mail art show. In 1999, Susan Williamson created The Great Canadian Mail Art Show for Artway at Bramalea City Centre; the show was so successful that the Art Gallery of Peel adopted it in 2001. The concept of a mail art show was revived in 2004 by Moreau, held at the new Artway Shoppers World. The Snail Mail World Postcard Art Show has been held annually since.Visual Arts Brampton's Fridge Front Gallery primarily hosts artwork by youth from its kids classes, and from schools in Brampton and Oakville. In contrast, the nearby Artway Gallery hosts artwork by professional and amateur adult artists from across Peel. VAB has successfully sought permission to create a third display space in Shoppers World, in the Zellers corridor. The space will host shows of mail art and works on paper year-round. The planned "World Art Gallery" will be the first ever permanent display space for mail art.After the success obtained last year, the second edition of the International Festival of Cinema Oberá en Cortos began at Oberá's theatre last Tuesday 10th. Local and provincial authorities and the vice rector of the National University of Misiones, Aldo Montini, were present at the inaugural ceremony."This festival is earning a place, not only in the province, but in the region as an important event for the Regional Cultural Association Argentina - Paraguay" said Jorge Betaglio, secretary of tourism of the Misiones province.Oberá en Cortos is an international competition for short format films and video. It takes place between the 10th and 15th of July of this year. The movies will be shown for six days in the Oberá's theatre, the Ex-secadero Barbaro, the San Martín square and the Parque de las Naciones. In addition, different mobile cinemas will cross the province, to show the movies in more than fifteen municipalities to people who cannot come to the city of Oberá."This is an area we still have to keep on building, that has to do with working on the production of cultural sense and reflecting our identities," said Axel Monsú, one of the organizers of the event.The first night, the Murga del Monte, a group of filmmakers made up of the community members, was there to show No lejos del Río de la Plata. This is a movie, filmed in the centre of Misiones in 1991, that reports the life of the Swedish immigrants upon their arrival to these lands.The festival is organized by the Productora de la Tierra, a cooperative of communication and is supported by the Subsecretary of Tourism of Misiones. In addition, different workshops are carried out in two facilities of the city.B2B Trade Area of Taipei Game Show, criticized by trade buyers last year, but accompanied with 2008 Taiwan Digital Content Forum, moved to the second floor at Taipei World Trade Center for world-wide participants with a better exchange atmosphere this year.Not only local OBMs (Softstar Entertainment, Soft-World International Corp., International Games System Corp., ..., etc.) but also companies from New Zealand, Canada, Japan, Hong Kong, and South Korea showcased different specialists with multiple styles. Especially on South Korea, participated members from G★ Trade Show (Game Show & Trade, All-Round, aka Gstar) showcased gaming industry of South Korea and the G★ upcoming at this November with brochures.In the 2-days Digital Content Forum, world-class experts not only shared industry experiences, members from Taiwan Gaming Industry Association also discussed and forecasted marketing models for gaming industry. With participations from governmental, industrial, and academical executives world-wide, this forum helps them gained precious experiences of digital content industry from several countries.According to the Taipei Computer Association, the show and forum organizer, the digital content industry in Taiwan was apparently grown up recent years as Minister of Economic Affairs of the Republic of China Steve Ruey-long Chen said at Opening Ceremony yesterday. Without R&Ds from cyber-gaming, and basic conceptions from policies and copyright issues, this (digital content) industry will be fallen down in Taiwan. If this industry wanted to be grown up in sustainability, gaming OBMs in Taiwan should independently produce different and unique games and change market style to market brands and games to the world.On Wednesday, United States film director Steven Spielberg withdrew from his position as artistic adviser to the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China. "Conscience will not allow me to continue with business as usual," he said."Sudan's government bears the bulk of the responsibility for these ongoing crimes but the international community, and particularly China, should be doing more to end the continuing human suffering there," Spielberg's statement said. "China's economic, military and diplomatic ties to the government of Sudan continue to provide it with the opportunity and obligation to press for change."China immediately expressed regret over his decision and suggested that "ulterior motives" may be at play. "It is understandable if some people do not understand the Chinese government policy on Darfur, but I am afraid that some people may have ulterior motives, and this we cannot accept. ... China is also concerned about the humanitarian situation in Darfur. [But] empty rhetoric will not help. We hope that relevant people will be more pragmatic," said Liu Jianchao, the Deputy-Director General of the Information Department in China's foreign ministry.Following Spielberg's withdrawal, other organizations called for boycott of the Games. However, United Kingdom Minister for the Olympics Tessa Jowell rejected such calls. "The world has known for the last seven years that Beijing would host the Olympics," Jowell told The Times. "Most progressive governments accept that there are wholly unacceptable aspects of Chinese policy, but that did not stop the International Olympic Committee awarding them the games. A call for a boycott doesn't serve any purpose and it would be a great pity. This doesn't mean, however, we should be distracted from the urgency of Darfur.""China is also concerned about the humanitarian issues there, but we have been playing a positive and constructive role in promoting peace in Darfur," Liu said, adding that China is working with the United Nations to provide aid and resolve the crisis.Critics of China contend that China supports the Islamic regime in Sudan because it buys two-thirds of the country's oil exports and also sells it weapons. Further, China has been defending the government in Khartoum in the United Nations Security Council. Since 2003, fighting between government-backed militia and rebels in Darfur has led to the death of more than 200,000 people and displaced some 2.5 million others.Meanwhile, United States President George W. Bush confirmed that he still plans to attend the Games in Beijing. "I view the Olympics as a sporting event. On the other hand, I have a different platform to Steven Spielberg, so I get to talk to Hu Jintao [President of China] and I do remind him he can do more to relieve the suffering in Darfur."Bush followed this by saying: "I’m not going to use the Olympics as an opportunity to express my opinions to the Chinese people in a public way because I do it all the time with the president."International Talk Like a Pirate Day is being celebrated today, as it has every September 19 for the last decade. The tradition was started by John Baur and Mark Summers, known to fellow pirates as Cap'n Slappy and Ol' Chumbucket. It became popular in 2002, when US author Dave Barry joined the support. Baur and Summers are both published authors themselves, as well as self-publishing books.In Nottinghamshire, United Kingdom the Campaign for Real Ale has organised a pirate pub crawl, while a London pub is offering rum at £0.50 a time. There are several events linked to the cancer charity Marie Curie. A Los Angeles bar is offering a day of 'sexy pirate talk'.Australia's Whitsunday Islands are holding an event organised by a man identified by ABC only as Captain Dan van Blarcom. "We're the polite pirates and we always use our manners and say please and thank you and ensure our visitors always come first," he said, adding that people caught not having fun may be made to walk the plank and that there are "some pirate hip hop music and other pirate songs" on offer.Bauer and Summers started the day after deciding that raquetball was much more fun when various pirate sayings were mixed into the game. The picked today as it was one of the few dates Summers could remember that did not already have a major holiday, being his ex-wife's birthday.The computer hacking organization Lulz Security disbanded yesterday, said the group in a statement. Released via Pastebin, it states "[o]ur planned 50 day cruise has expired, and we must now sail into the distance."The announcement comes a day after The Guardian released leaked IRC logs of private conversations between LulzSec members and days after the arrest of a British teenager in connection to the group.With the announcement the group released previously unseen private information. Included was AT&T and AOL internal data, Battlefield Heros Beta user account data, and user information from the NATO bookstore. In total over 810,000 people's user information was present in this final release.LulzSec became known after they allegedly hacked the Play Station Network, rendering the service unusable. The group allegedly proceeded to hack US federal government websites such as those of the FBI and CIA. One of their last hacks targeted the Arizona Department of Public Safety in which they allegedly copied hundreds of confidential documents.While LulzSec has disbanded, there are copycat organizations in Italy and Brazil.The Creative Archive project is a BBC led initiative which aims to make archive audio and video footage available to be freely downloaded, distributed, and ‘remixed’. The project is still in a pilot stage, and is only available to UK residents, but the long-term future of the project could have a major impact on the way audiences interact with BBC content.The project is partly inspired by the Creative Commons movements, and also by a general move within the BBC to be more open with its assets. Additionally, educational audiences such as schools have expressed an interest in using BBC content within the classroom, both to watch and to create multimedia content from.So far, clips made available under the licence have included archive news footage, nature documentary footage, and video clips content designed for educational uses. “It’s done very well with the audiences we’ve directed them towards – heavy BBC users,” says Paul Gerhardt, project leader. Users downloading the clips are also prompted to fill in a questionnaire, and so far 10-15% of people seem to be doing something with the material, although the BBC can’t be sure what exactly that is.One of the biggest limitations within the licence as it currently stands during the pilot scheme is that the material is only available for use by people resident in the UK. The BBC’s Creative Archive sites use ‘geo-IP filtering’ to limit downloads to the UK, but there is some confusion over whether people who create their own content using the material can upload their creations to their own websites. A question within the FAQs for one of the more recent selections of clips suggests that this isn’t possible, saying “during this pilot phase material released under the terms of the Creative Archive Licence cannot be used outside the UK - therefore, unless a website has its use restricted to the UK only, content from the 'Regions on Film' archive cannot be published on it.”“We want people to make full use of this content, whether they cut and paste it or whether they share it, and we completely accept that we’ve got a bit of a contradiction at the moment by saying UK-only and yet encouraging people to put it on their sites to share it with others, because you can’t expect people to have geo-IP restriction technology,” admits Mr Gerhardt. “We’re thinking hard about how to deal with this after the pilot – at the moment it’s quite likely that we’re probably going to need to find a distribution partner outside of the UK, so that if you’re outside of the UK you’ve got roughly the same experience as in the UK, but the content could be surrounded by sponsorship messages or advertising or whatever. Once we’ve done that then leakage from one to the other won’t really matter very much.”The Creative Archive project has not been without critics from the commercial sector, worried that the BBC giving away their content for free would make it difficult for them to be able to make money from their own content. The BBC has explained to some of the commercial players that the content would be limited during the pilot, would not be available in broadcast quality, and that watermarking technologies would be trialled so that content could be recognised when it crops up elsewhere. The BBC is also investigating a business model for the future where there would be a “close relationship between public access to low-resolution content and a click through to monetising that content if you want to buy a high-resolution version”. People who want to play around with the material might discover they have a talent and then find they need to get a commercial license to use it properly, Mr Gerhardt explains, and the project wants to make it easy for this to happen.Before the project can go ahead with the full scale launch, it will have to go through a ‘public value test’ to assess its overall impact on the marketplace, and commercial media companies will have a chance to input at this point.For ease in clearing the rights, all of the content available under the pilot project is factual, but in the future the project could include drama and entertainment content. The BBC may also, in the future, work the Creative Archive licences into the commissioning process for new programmes. “This raises some really interesting ideas – if you have a documentary series, you could use the Creative Archive to release the longer form footage, for instance – that would create a digital legacy of that documentary series,” Mr Gerhardt explains. “The other interesting thought in the longer term would be for the BBC, or another broadcaster, to contribute to a digital pool of archive material on a theme, and then invite people to assemble their own content out of that. We could end up broadcasting both the BBC professionally produced programme accompanied by other programmes that other people had made out of the same material.”One of the ways that the Creative Archive licence differs from the other ‘copyleft’ licences like Creative Commons, aside from the UK-only limitation, is that the licence currently allows the BBC to update and modify the licence, which may worry those using the licence that their rights could suddenly become more restricted. “The licence at the moment is a draft, and we’ve given warning that we may well improve it, but we wouldn’t do that more than once or twice. The ambition is that by the time we scale up to the full service we would have a fixed licence that everyone was comfortable with, and it wouldn’t change after that.”“The ambition is to think about creating a single portal where people can search and see what stuff is out there under the same licence terms, from a range of different suppliers. The idea is that if we can create something compelling like that, we will attract other archives in the UK to contribute their material, so we’d be aggregating quite a large quantity.”The Creative Archive project has captured the interest of many Internet users, who are growing increasingly, used the idea of being able to ‘remix’ technologies and content. Some groups have been frustrated with the speed at which the project is developing though, and with some of the restrictions imposed in the licence. An open letter to the BBC urges the dropping of the UK-only limitation, the use of ‘open formats’, and to allow the material to be usable commercially. Mr Gerhardt has publicly welcomed debate of the licence, but makes it clear to me that the whole BBC archive will never all be available under the Creative Archive terms. “We will make all our archive available, under different terms, over the next five to ten years, at a pace to be determined. There would be three modes in which people access it – some of the content would only be available commercially, for the first five year or so after broadcast, say. The second route is through a ‘view again’ strategy where you can view the programmes, but they’d be DRM-restricted. And the third mode is Creative Archive. Over time, programmes would move from one mode to another, with some programmes going straight to the Creative Archive after broadcast.”Others who disagree with the ‘UK-only’ restriction within the licence include Suw Charman, from the Open Rights Group, who has said “it doesn't make sense in a world where information moves between continents in seconds, and where it is difficult for the average user to exclude visitors based on geography.” On the project generally, though, she said “I think that it is a good step along the way to a more open attitude towards content. It is a toe in the water, which is far preferable to the attitude of most of the industry players, who are simply burying their heads in the sand and hoping that lawsuits and lobbying for new legislation will bolster their out-dated business plan.”Other organisations currently participating in the Creative Archive scheme include the British Film Institute, the Open University and Teachers' TV. Two artists have been awarded scholarships to create artworks using BBC archive material, and BBC Radio 1 has held a competition asking people to use the footage in creative ways as backing visuals to music. The process of making the BBC’s archive material fully available may be a long one, but it could end up changing the way that people interact with the UK’s public service broadcaster.PostSecret is a community art project where people release their secrets by anonymously mailing them on a homemade postcard. Frank Warren started PostSecret in November, 2004 and has since received thousands of secrets from all over the world. The cards appeared in an All-American Rejects music video for the song Dirty Little Secret, and PostSecret's fee? a $2,000 donation to The National Hopeline Network 1(800)SUICIDE, a suicide hotline. PostSecret has recently published a book of some of the postcards with some of the proceeds also going to the hotline.Wikinews: What is PostSecret for you?Frank Warren: PostSecret is a community art project where anyone can write a secret on a postcard and mail it in.You originally sent out 3,000 postcards at the projects inception in November, 2004.  Over a year later, approximately how many cards have you received?20,000.Geographically, how far away have you received postcards?The cards come from all over the world; Hong Kong, Afghanistan, Australia, Ireland, India...You let the All-American Rejects use the postcards in their video for a donation to the National Hopeline Network, a suicide hotline.  You also have a book out now with some of the proceeds going to National Hopeline.  Is depression the most common theme in the secrets that you have received?I do not know if depression is the most common theme, but I picked the charity because of my own experiences with suicide and because I have first-hand knowledge of the good work done by 1(800)SUICIDE.What, in your opinion, is the motivation for people to send you their secrets?I think some people are looking to share a funny story, others want to talk about a secret kindness they performed but most people, I believe, are looking to better understand their own secrets and perhaps use this project as a first step in taking action upon their secrets.Have you ever gotten into any sort of trouble or controversy because of what you have posted on your site? If so, what has happened as a result?I once received a postcard from a girl saying, "I worked really hard to get into [Ivy League School] but now I hate it here."  She later contacted me and said her friends and family recognized her handwriting and the posting was causing her distress.  She asked me to remove it and I did.  But I asked her to let me know how things turned-out  in the long-run.  Maybe this event will cause her to change schools or find new ways to appreciate where she is now.Finally, PostSecret has touched and aided the lives of many people.  How can people help the project?I hope people just continue to bravely share their secrets on the site and visitors continue to express their understanding and compassion.Glen Stollery is a New Zealand website developer who created the site ScienTOMogy.info in mid 2005. The site, which is a parody of Tom Cruise and his involvement with the Church of Scientology, became the centre of controversy when it was served with a number of cease and desist orders initiated by the Church. On March 19, 2006, Glen issued a media release stating that his web hosting provider, YouTube, had removed videos of Tom Cruise which formed part of the site. The release suggested that YouTube had taken this action under external pressure from Cruise or Viacom. Responding to a query by Wikinews reporters, YouTube stated "We have not received a DMCA notification letter from Viacom." The Church of Scientology was offered the opportunity to respond to the claims made by Stollery during the interview. No reply was received.This exclusive interview deals with these issues and others relating to the website. It was conducted with Glen via email between March 21 and April 3, 2006.Old books never die. They don't even fade away. Instead, their copyright expires and they are released into the public domain, where hordes of volunteers breathe new life into them. Groups like Project Gutenberg, Distributed Proofreaders and Wikisource digitize, preserve and categorize classic works of literature, old encyclopedias, and even periodicals.Hugh McGuire, a writer from Montreal, decided that he did not only want to read these voices from the past — he wanted to hear them. "On a practical level," he says, "I wanted to download a free audiobook." Disappointed with the somewhat meager outcome of his search, he decided to create an open community website dedicated to creating spoken word versions of public domain texts. In August 2005, LibriVox was born. The call to action is simple enough:"Would you like to record chapters of books in the public domain? It's easy to volunteer. All you need is a computer, some free recording software, and your own voice."Less than a year later, the website features a hundred or so completed books, and 300 people have contributed chapters or poetry. "Probably another 400have done or are expected to do chapters for books not yet completed or cataloged," McGuire explains. The finished audio files, like the texts they come from, are released into the public domain and offered in the MP3 and Ogg Vorbis file formats. Volunteers use the active forums and a wiki to collaborate. We asked Hugh McGuire about the state of the project, internationalization, and the place of LibriVox in the larger free content community.Why did you decide to take the acoustic fate of public domain works into your own hands, and how did you go about it? I think that a vibrant public domain is very important to a healthy world, and so I thought: here's a way to help the cause. I launched LibriVox, emailed some friends and some podcasters who where doing literary stuff, and invited them to record a chapter of Joseph Conrad's Secret Agent. Things have grown steadily since. By the way, AKMA was the first guy I know of to do something like this, with [Lawrence] Lessig's Free Culture. That, I think, started my thinking about this, but it took a while for the idea to crystallize.Do you personally record audiobooks, and did you already do so before LibriVox?LibriVox was my first experience recording audiobooks. I still do the odd chapter, but i am a bit delinquent in finishing some of them these days!Is there a particular LibriVox book which you think stands out because of the quality, the overall effort involved, its popularity, or for some other reason?My personal favourite is Notes from the Underground (Dostoyevsky). Other random good ones: Austen, Jane. Pride and PrejudiceChristie, Agatha. The Mysterious Affair at StylesLondon, Jack. White FangMacaulay, Thomas Babington. History of England (Volume 1, Chapter 1)Marx, Karl and Engels, Friedrich. The Communist Manifesto (solo)Twain, Mark. A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (solo)[Ed.: See the LibriVox catalog for a full index.]Browsing the catalog, I find that the quality of the spoken audio varies greatly from text to text or even from chapter to chapter. If someone wanted to re-record a chapter because they didn't like the speaker, would you then offer two versions?Yes. We take the Wikipedia approach: if you think it should be better, please help it be so. You'll note we offer a couple of versions of some books. Indeed our weekly poetry project celebrates this diversity of voice: each week a new short poem is chosen and as many readers as wish to record a version, so you get 20+ versions of the same poem, a very interesting audio experience.Besides works whose copyright has expired, there is an increasing number of modern books available under Creative Commons and similar licenses. You mentioned Larry Lessig's Free Culture, but it also includes some out of print titles by publishers who are open to the concept, such as O'Reilly. Do you want to limit the scope of LibriVox strictly to old public domain works, or do you have plans to include recent works under reasonably permissive licenses as well?We are only doing public domain works, for a number of reasons, partly to keep simplicity in our copyright situation -- public domain means its as simple as can be. CC makes things more complex. Also, there are other sites, notably podiobooks.com, which are better suited to CC works than LibriVox. we find it makes things clear and easy to say: published works, public domain, and leave it at that.As far as I can tell, podiobooks.com features "free as in beer" content — material which you can download, but which isn't under a free content license. Instead of "public domain", wouldn't "free content" work just as well, using something like the Free Content Definition to limit the scope?This needs more discussion obviously: we chose public domain because the texts we use are public domain and we didn't want to add newrestrictions, especially not non-commercial, since already our recordings are being used for a number of commercialish projects (I can't recall any specific project names, but some pay-education sites use LV stuff). That's good and well and fine with us. We don't want to have to give anyone permission to use our recordings, we want anyone to use them for whatever they want.Also, for the thing to work you need to have many dedicated volunteers willing to do the management (onerous) and many willing to do the reading. While Pride and Prejudice will attract many readers, I don't know about O'Reilly's latest tome on XML... though I might be wrong.Are there plans to fully internationalize the website?LV is a totally open project, so where the volunteers go, we go. We have books in German, Italian, French, Spanish, Hebrew, Finnish, Japanese, Old English... and possibly a few more. We also have a wiki, and our response to such questions is to encourage any non-anglos to make translations there, and we can incorporate into the site as needed. We have a language policy, which basically says that in general the forum language is English (so that admin know what's going on) but that if a non-English book project is started, the language in that thread can be whatever volunteers wish to use.I was thinking specifically about things like the user interface of the website and the forums. Are there plans to internationalize these? Many people speak no English at all, so an English website might not work for them.In order for this to happen we need volunteers willing to do it. We have no budget (literally zero) and our structure is totally loose and open, so if a volunteer or group of volunteers offer to do this, we will find a way to help make it happen. There is the constraint that we'd be most comfortable with active volunteers doing it, who understand the project and its particularities. Since everything is volunteer, the current admin would have to find the time to manage this, too, but I expect if there were a serious desire on the part of some volunteers, we'd have no problem adding the text. We have a wiki, where anyone is welcome to write the text in whatever language, and then we could easily post pages up to the site.Has podcasting helped you in gaining more awareness?Sure! Podcasting was the inspiration for LV ... easy, cheap, do-it-yourself audio! Superb. Podcasting is an important part of our distribution, but torrents and regular downloads are probably bigger.So, do you have an idea how many people listen to your podcast?Last estimation was in the 5000 range.Besides human readers, there's also the fully automated approach of turning text into sound. Text-to-speech software is getting better every year, with an increasing focus on "natural" voices.I don't find text-to-speech very interesting. LV is about people reading to you, which is very different than having a computer - no matter the naturalness - read to you. Our recordings have mistakes, fumbles, coughs, and beautiful human voices being human, reading wonderful works of literature. It's not just transmission of audio information, it's something much more, and something no computer, robot etc. could ever replicate. Do you not sometimes get worried that your work might eventually be made obsolete by technology?See above, but we don't really feel like we are in competition with other projects. Many of us are working for similar goals, and there's room for many of us. Personally, I am very much interested in what the readers get out of the process, as much as the listeners. If there are computer-generated public domain audiobooks, so much the better. There are also many other audiolit projects, and we all seem to be doing parallel stuff. I think that's great. The beauty of LV, podcasting etc. is that it's all so cheap to do - you can have your choice. I will choose a real human reading over a computer reading any day, but others might not agree. That's fine. LVers read out of love of literature, and nothing more. Wikisource is the Wikimedia project which digitizes and archives free content texts. There's also an existing Wikimedia effort to create spoken versions of Wikipedia articles. Are you guys aware of each other, and possibly already working together?We're aware of some of these projects, and have corresponded with some of these and others. There's so much to do! It's great that so many are doing this stuff, and that people can choose the things that interest them. this is the thing about LV (as with Wikipedia etc) ... we can't control our volunteers, nor do we want to. We just give a framework, and hope for the best. What is the last audiobook you've listened to?To be honest, I haven't listened to a full book in a long while! Last chapter I listened to was from Whitman's Leaves of Grass.January's second Interview of the Month was with Danny O'Brien of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) on 23 January in IRC. The EFF is coming off a series of high-profile successes in their campaigns to educate the public, press, and policy makers regarding online rights in a digital world, and defending those rights in the legislature and the courtroom. Their settlement with Sony/BMG, the amazingly confused MGM v Grokster decision by the Supreme Court of the United States, and the disturbing cases surrounding Diebold have earned the advocacy organization considerable attention.When asked if the EFF would be interested in a live interview in IRC by Wikinews, the answer was a nearly immediate yes, but just a little after Ricardo Lobo. With two such interesting interview candidates agreeing so quickly, it was hard to say no to either so schedules were juggled to have both. By chance, the timing worked out to have the EFF interview the day before the U.S. Senate schedule hearings concerning the Broadcast flag rule of the FCC, a form of digital rights management which the recording and movie industries have been lobbying hard for - and the EFF has been lobbying hard to prevent.PRS for Music is the UK's music royalty collection society tasked with working on behalf of copyright holders, specifically authors and music publishers.  Founded in 1914, the PRS is a non-profit organisation with 350,000 UK businesses holding PRS licenses.  The society works in conjunction with PPL which collects fees on behalf of the copyright holders of the actual recording.So, if a cover version of a song is played on UK radio, PRS collect a fee on behalf of the original writer and publisher, whilst PPL collect a fee on behalf of the record company of the cover.  In a recent Wikinews interview, Paul Campbell, founder of Amazing Radio, an unsigned UK radio station, lambasted PRS for their "barmy standard contract" and their outdated equipment.  That interview can be found here.Wikinews reporter Tristan Thomas interviews PRS, following up on Campbell and others' criticism as well as finding out about future plans.The inventor of instant noodles has died in Japan at the age of 96. Momofuku Ando suffered from acute heart failure on Friday, said Nissin Food Company. Momofuku Ando was born as Wu Bai-fu (吳百福) in Chiayi, Taiwan, on March 5, 1910. He founded Nissin in the year 1948 from a humble family operation. Japan faced food shortages during the post-World War II period and Ando thought a quality, convenient noodle product would help feed the masses. He brought out the Chicken Ramen, the first noodle product in the year 1958. The chicken-flavored dried noodle cake could be served in minutes by pouring hot water over it in a bowl. He started exporting it to the US during 1970.The Cup Noodle concept was born in 1971. Ando said, he was inspired when he saw people lining up to buy bowls of hot ramen soup at a black market stall during this period. Its taste and ease of preparation made it one of the most favorite food in the world. The Chicken Ramen product had been a  hit, and the despite a hefty tag of 35 Yen, he unleashed the product – Cup Noodles, on the market. Nissin has been the undisputed leader of the noodle industry since then, selling a 85.7 billion servings every year, according to Agence France Presse."The Momofuku Ando Instant Ramen Museum" opened in 1999 in Ikeda City in western Japan housing his various inventions. His firm also developed a version of Cup Noodles for Japanese astronauts to eat on Space Shuttle Discovery. "It is like a dream that people from rivaling countries can eat Ramen together in space," were Ando's words to the reporters at that time. He retired as the chairman of Nissin in the year 2005. The Japanese newspapers have been paying tribute to him by publishing long obituaries and eulogies. According to the Mainichi Shimbun, Ando was last seen in public on Wednesday when he made a New Year's speech at Nissin's head office in Osaka and had a lunch with executives, a bowl of Chicken Ramen with rice cake.The incumbent Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger had been one of the celebrities to endorse the brand. Ando is survived by his wife, Masako; two sons; and a daughter. His son Koki Ando is president of Nissin Food Products Co. Ltd.A number of relatively unknown entrants made the Taiwan 2008 Invitational Games for the Deaf soccer tournament an unpredictable event. Teams from Thailand, Australia, Iran (Silver Medalist in soccer at the 2005 Summer Deaflympics), Uzbekistan, Malaysia, and Japan took part.On September 6, soccer giants Thailand and Iran defeated Malaysia and Uzbekistan in shutouts of 11-0 and 9-0 respectively. Anothai Sathiyamat, Somsak Thongdee, Nares Numphakdee of Thailand all scored hat-tricks in the game against Uzbekistan.On the second day of competition, a decisive battle in Group A between Japan and Iran was keenly watched by Thailand, as one of the two teams would be their opponent in the finals. The game was scoreless in the first half, with conservative tactics from both teams.Iran's Mostafa Heydaribondarabadi scored rapidly after the second half started, but Shun Igasaki of Japan scored a penalty kick after a foul by Iran in the penalty area and tied the score again. The penalty became the key of the match when Tetsuya Kurata scored 5 minutes further in, as the Iranian players became frustrated by the penalty kick. Finally, Japan won with a final score of 2-1, and advanced to the championship match on the final day.After group standings were mostly stabilized in the third day of competition, Thailand and Japan handled their respective Group matches by replacing several substitutes with frequently lined-up players to defeat their opponents easily. They will face off on the final day for the gold medal of soccer event in the "Invitational Games for the Deaf, Taipei 2008".The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has lifted a ban on Iraqi athletes participating in the Beijing Olympics. The IOC placed a ban on the country's participation on July 24 claiming a political influence within Iraq's national Olympic committee. This came after the Iraqi government's suspension of the National Olympic Committee (NOC) of Iraq in May 2008.File:LogoBeijing2008.jpgThe decision to remove the ban is a result of the Iraqi government's agreement to allow free elections for their National Olympic Committee while under international scrutiny. "The National Olympic Committee will have fair elections before the end of November," said Pere Miro, Director of the IOC's relation with NOC's. In the meantime, Iraq's NOC will be run by a interim Committee approved by the IOC. Even though the ban has been lifted, five of the seven athletes are still unable to participate due to the final date of selections having passed. Two athletes participating in sprinting and rowing are expected to compete.There has been some who believed that Iraq has been treated wrongly in the matter of their NOC. Ahmed Tabour, head of the Cultural and Sports Committee stated that "Iraq was never suspended during the days of Saddam [Hussein], who personally appointed the national Olympic committee. The Iraqi people need hope, and sport gives them a lot of hope."London, England — At a press conference in London yesterday the President of the International Paralympic Committee (IPC), Sir Philip Craven, criticized media coverage of the Paralympic Games in the United States and Canada.In the United States, NBC is running only four one-hour highlights packages. Canada's CBC is doing only slightly better, with one hour of highlights each night of competition. This contrasts with extensive coverage in the United Kingdom, France, and other countries. Sir Philip told the fifty-plus attendees which included Lord Coe, "some people feel that North America lead on everything, and on this they don't.  And it's about time they caught up." He said he was very disappointed for the athletes, the people, and the organizations. The Paralympic Committee has tried to fill the void with streaming video over the internet.  According to Tony Naar from the Australian Paralympic Committee, his American counterparts were "defensive" about the arrangement whereby they bought the television rights and sold them on to NBC. Referring to previous Australian coverage he said, "[t]hat is where we were back in 1996, so they are that far behind."The Ipswich serial murders, in which five female prostitutes were killed in Ipswich, Suffolk, England, are to be turned into a show entitled London Road. The "documentary musical" is expected to debut in the Royal National Theatre in London this April.The concept has been criticised. When ITN conducted some vox populi interviews, members of the public reacted negatively: "[A]lmost makes it seem a bit light-hearted, doesn't it? It takes the impact out of it," one woman said. One man said that it would "bring back memories to [the families of the victims] and that's not right." Another woman remarked: "It's not a musical, you know, it's a tragedy for the families it happened to." The Reverend Andrew Dotchin, who knew victim Tania Nicol, advised: "It's holy ground. Take your shoes off. Walk carefully. Remember you're dealing not so much with an event in the news but with something that in a real sense that is still alive, still affecting lives. It has a great potential to bring healing but if you're not careful, it can also bring harm."In their defence, a National Theatre spokeswoman made a statement, saying "London Road has been created from edited interviews recorded with people from Ipswich and is a serious look at the effect on the community of this tragic event, rather than at the murders or victims themselves; and at how the community was able to pull together to create something positive out of the tragedy.  We're not going to call it a musical in future because we recognise it gives a misleading impression; the music will do something very different by reflecting the voices of the interviewees. We realise how sensitive a subject this is and hope that, when people come to see it, they will see that the piece doesn't seek to exploit or sensationalise but to shed light on a side of the story that hasn't previously been told."The name London Road is a reference to the name of the street where Steve Wright lived. Wright was was jailed in February 2008 for the murders of Tania Nicol, Gemma Adams, Anneli Alderton, Annette Nicholls and Paula Clennell - all of whom were female prostitutes that lived in the Ipswich region. Their naked bodies were discovered close to Ipswich in December 2006.The BBC News Website and a Civil Liberties organization are claiming that the BBC Persian website has been blocked by the government of Iran.Reports indicate that the cities of Shiraz and Zahedan are unable to access bbcpersian.com. As of press time no explanation has been given for the block. The BBC said that it would approach the Iranian government to ask about getting unblocked.Iranian internet providers routinely block pornographic and anti-Islamic websites, but they also block some pro-reform websites and blogs, sometimes permanently. This follows a history of alleged censorship - in 2004 the pro-reform Emrooz, Rooydad and Baamdad online newspapers were reported to have been shut down or blocked often.An Iranian court in Tehran yesterday confirmed film director Jafar Panahi's sentence to six years in jail, and a twenty-year ban on filmmaking. Charges against the award-winning director were summarised by state media as, "[...] acting against national security and propaganda against the regime".In September, before the original sentence was handed down, Panahi lamented, "[w]hen a film-maker does not make films it is as if he is jailed. Even when he is freed from the small jail, he finds himself wandering in a larger jail". With the ban now in-place, the filmmaker's This is not a Film, which premièred at Canne Film festival, may be his last work for two decades. The handheld-shot documentary covers Panahi' struggle with censorship whilst being prosecuted.Panahi's is the second high-profile case this week; actress Marzieh Vafamehr was sentenced to 90 lashes and one year in jail for starring in the controversial Australian-produced film My Tehran For Sale, directed by Iranian-Australian Granaz Moussavi. The film is about a young Tehrani actress whose work is banned by the government. Iranian commentators heavily criticised the film, which is being distributed illegally in Iran, and in July Vafamehr was arrested. Producers Julie Ryan and Kate Croser state they "did not set out to produce a political film." Stressing, "[w]e definitely didn't set out to make a film that criticised the government". The role played by Vafemehr shows her with a shaved head, and without a hijab.Australian Foreign Minister Kevin Rudd's office issued a statement condemning Vafemehr's sentence.The Supreme Leader of Iran, Ali Khamenei, appointed 22 members to the main body that determines the cultural policy of Iran.  The body is known as the Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution.Khamenei's decree allows the appointees to serve for three years on the cultural council.  Appointees like Ahmad Jannati, Mir-Hossein Moussavi, and the others are long-time allies of Khamenei.  Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel's daughter is married to one of Khamenei's sons. (Secretary of the Guardian Council) Haj Sheikh Ahmad Jannati(Majlis Speaker) Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel(Former Vice-President) Hassan Habibi(Former Prime Minister) Mir-Hossein MoussaviAhmad AhmadiAli ShariatmadariReza Davari(Former Foreign Minister and Leadership Advisor for Foreign and International Affairs) Ali-Akbar VelayatiIraj Fazel(Former Vice-President) Mohammad-Reza ArefMehdi Golshani(Top nuclear negotiator and Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council) Ali LarijaniAli-Reza Sadr-HosseiniMohammad-Ali KeynejadMohsen GhomiHassan RahimpourMohammad-Reza MokhberSadeq VaezzadehAli-Akbar Sadeqi-Rashad(Head of the Islamic Culture and Communication Organization) Mahmoud Mohammadi Araqi(Deputy Minister of Science, Research and Technology for Education) Mansour Kabkanian(Member of Board of Instructors of Tehran University's Faculty of Social Sciences) Hossein Kachuian.The cultural council has to ensure that Iran can counter the Western culture with Islam and works closely with the Ministry of Islamic Culture and Guidance."The enemies try to defeat Islam by undermining Hijab and thus fostering corruption in Islamic countries," according to Grand Ayatollah Nasser Makarem Shirazi.  Makarem-Shirazi was addressing the Hijab Dialogue Group where he also expressed effusive support for the Iranian police force which enforces Islamic morality.  He also wants to extend the hijab to all Islamic countries.    In the past Makarem-Shirazi has given reasons for the mandatory hijab.  He has blamed improper hijab for "destruction of families and increase in rate of divorce and crime," on a page on his own website.  He believes that in order for the government to "not resort to force for this problem," people have to be responsible themselves.  He also expressed disappointment at mass media rowdyism.Makarem-Shirazi's view on the necessity of hijab for preservation of marriage has been echoed by Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei as well.  He has said,"you will realize that all Islamic laws and injunctions are directed at safeguarding the marital bond. Hijab is for this, it means not displaying your bodies for others, not to appear in public without proper, decent clothing, not to stimulate certain motives improperly and unlawfully, so that all and every such attractions are only reserved for your own loving partner in life."Like all Islamic fundamentalists,  Makarem-Shirazi is a strong proponent of literal or near-literal interpretation of Islamic laws.  With respect to the hijab, Islamic fundamentalists back up all their positions with sharia and Islamic jurisprudence sources.  Imam Jaffer Sadiq has said, "Modesty is the symbol of faith and whoever has no modesty (Hijab), has no religion."  There are only a tiny minority of Islamic clerics who don't second compulsory hijab in Iran, like Hojatoleslam Sayyed Hussein Khomeini who has said, "I am personally in favor of the hijab, but not like this. The hijab is a personal issue. If a woman wants, she may [wear it], and if she doesn't [want it], she may [refuse it]."  His grandfather, Imam Khomeini fiercely defended the compulsory hijab and wrote, "With the slogans of freedom and equality, they promoted the culture of nakedness and libertinism, in the process making use of the most draconian of despotic measures as seen in Riza Khan’s policy of forcing women to remove their Islamic veils (kashf-i hijab)."  Reza Pahlavi was a secularist like his contemporary Ataturk. As a member of Society of Seminary Teachers of Qom, Makarem-Shirazi proposes judges to Iran's Islamic courts.Iranian police raided a dance party held 12 miles west of Tehran arresting some 230 participants. The authorities described the rock and rap performers as "satanist" without elaborating.The raid comes as part of a recent crackdown on un-Islamic dress and hairstyles among young people in Iran. In particular, this event included some female vocalists; it is illegal for women to sing in Iran.Rock concerts and dancing are illegal in Iran but festivals are occasionally organized illegally. In this case, the revellers were made aware of the venue only hours prior to the event.The Iranian Fars News Agency (FNA) yesterday apologised over an article it reproduced Friday, originally written by US satirical news website The Onion on Monday September 24. The parodic article reported "a Gallup poll" suggesting "the overwhelming majority of rural white Americans" would vote for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the President of Iran, instead of US President Barack Obama. The Onion article also said "77 percent of rural Caucasian voters"  would prefer to drink beer with Ahmadinejad or attend a baseball game with him as opposed to Obama.The FNA's English service Editor-in-chief said the article had been "extracted" from The Onion and that FNA gives "our formal apologies for that mistake", as well as pointing out the article was "taken down from our outlook in less two hours".However, the editor-in-chief also said "we do believe that if a free opinion poll is conducted in the US, a majority of Americans would prefer anyone outside the US political system to President Barack Obama and American statesmen". He stressed that this belief does not constitute justification for the error. In The Onion's article, fictional West Virginia resident Dale Swiderski says about Ahmadinejad: "I like him better". 'Swiderski' is also quoted by the Chicago, Illinois website as saying the Iranian President "takes national defense seriously, and he'd never let some gay protesters tell him how to run his country like Obama does."In Iran, homosexuality is a criminal offence which can carry a penalty of incarceration or capital punishment. Just over five years ago, when he participated in a debate at Columbia University in New York, New York, Ahmadinejad said: "In Iran we don't have homosexuals like in your country".The FNA's error made international headlines, including in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, India, and Australia. Will Tracy, editor of The Onion, said their website "freely shares content with Fars and commends the journalists at Iran's Finest News Source on their superb reportage", a humourous reference to The Onion's slogan, 'America's Finest News Source'.On the original web page on The Onion's website, the satirical news organisation added a reference to "our Iranian subsidiary organization", providing a link to a screenshot of the FNA's page.On the article page, in which The Onion was not attributed as a source, the FNA copied The Onion's article verbatim and in its entirety, save for part of a sentence saying Ahmadinejad was "a man who has repeatedly denied the Holocaust and has had numerous political prisoners executed".This is not the first time The Onion has caused the mistaken belief of their material being factual. In a November 2007 interview with Wikinews, The Onion's Editorial Manager Chet Clem recounted an incident in which the Beijing Evening News reproduced a story from The Onion created in 2002, copied entirely verbatim, headlined "Congress threatens to leave DC unless new capitol is built". When the error was highlighted to the Chinese newspaper, Clem said "their response was not to print a correction, but just to say that some newspapers in America make money by printing lies." In a separate incident, Christians forwarded a story on the Internet from The Onion saying children were converting to Satanism as a result of reading the Harry Potter book series.The FNA statement released yesterday went on to say "[a]ctive and well-known media occasionally make mistakes, and no media is an exception to this rule", before going to provide a list of errors made by such publications as The New York Times and Beijing Evening News, as well as television broadcasters like the BBC, ITV, and CNN.The bottom of the FNA's statement introduces a list of notable BBC errors reported by The Daily Telegraph on December 6, 2010. While the FNA referenced The Daily Telegraph and the order of the mistakes was changed from the original article, the wording was reproduced verbatim, excluding one omitted sentence under the subheading 'Nicky Campbell and hunting mark II' which reads: "Campbell, who is also the presenter of the BBC's flagship programme for Holy Week, apologised profusely for the mistake."According to BBC News Online, the FNA is associated with the Army of the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution, an Iranian military branch.The Fars News Agency (FNA), an Iranian news agency, yesterday reported an article from US satirical news website The Onion as fact. The article reports "a Gallup poll" suggesting "the overwhelming majority of rural white Americans" would prefer to vote for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the President of Iran, as opposed to US President Barack Obama. The Onion article reports "77 percent of rural Caucasian voters" saying they would prefer to drink beer with Ahmadinejad or attend a baseball game with him. Fictional West Virginia resident Dale Swiderski is reported by the Chicago, Illinois based website saying about Ahmadinejad: "I like him better". 'Swiderski' is also quoted as saying the Iranian President "takes national defense seriously, and he'd never let some gay protesters tell him how to run his country like Obama does."In Iran, homosexuality is a criminal offence which can carry a penalty of incarceration or capital punishment. Just over five years ago, when he participated in a debate at Columbia University in New York, New York, Ahmadinejad stated "In Iran we don't have homosexuals like in your country".The FNA copied The Onion's article verbatim and in its entirety, excluding part of a sentence saying Ahmadinejad was "a man who has repeatedly denied the Holocaust and has had numerous political prisoners executed". However, the Iranian news service did not attribute The Onion as its source.The FNA's error has made international headlines, including in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia and India.A link to the FNA article page redirects to an error message which reads: "Error For Your Request. Not Exist This Story."  However, The Onion included a link to a screenshot of the FNA's page on their original article, accompanied by a message telling readers to "visit our Iranian subsidiary organization" for more information on the story.There are no reports of the article being republished in Persian. The FNA has yet to comment on the incident. However, The Onion's editor Will Tracy humourously remarked their website "freely shares content with Fars and commends the journalists at Iran's Finest News Source on their superb reportage".This is not the first time The Onion has caused the mistaken belief of their material being accurate. In a November 2007 interview with Wikinews, The Onion's Editorial Manager Chet Clem recounted an incident in which the Beijing Evening News reproduced a story from The Onion created in 2002, copied entirely verbatim, headlined "Congress threatens to leave DC unless new capitol is built". When the error was highlighted to the Chinese newspaper, Clem said "their response was not to print a correction, but just to say that some newspapers in America make money by printing lies." In a separate incident, Christians forwarded a story on the Internet from The Onion saying children were converting to Satanism as a result of reading the Harry Potter book series.BBC News Online also reported an instance of two newspapers in Bangladesh apologising over their publication of an article disputing the validity of the moon landings, originally written by The Onion.The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has told the Iraqi Olympic Committee that Iraq can not field a team in the 2008 Summer Olympics, which are due to open in Beijing, China August 8, 2008.  The International Olympic committee said that it took this action "as a consequence of the ongoing political interference by the government within the sports movement in Iraq." The Iraqi government suspended its Olympic Committee, the National Olympic Committee of Iraq, which they viewed as dysfunctional for several reasons, including the holding of illegitimate meetings, having officials serve past their post and living outside of the country. Interference by government is not permitted by the IOC.  The government of Iraq has said that the decision undermines the effort athletes put into getting a place in the Iraqi Olympic team. Dana Hussain, one of the sprinters who would have been on the Iraqi team, was reported to be distraught by the decision. According to her coach she was "crying for about two hours." Her coach compared the decision to "finding out that a close relative has died."The deadline to register for five of the seven would-be Iraqi Olympians has passed. However, if the National Olympic Committee of Iraq is reinstated, the possibility exists that its two sprinters may be able to compete, if they register before the track and field deadline at the end of July.Iraqi officials are planning on having a Ferris wheel built as a tourist attraction to the nation's capital, Baghdad. The wheel would be called 'Baghdad Eye' and is planned to sit over 650 ft above the Tigris River. Adel al Ardawi, a Baghdad municipality spokesman said that "[t]his wheel will be taller than the iconic 443-foot London Eye." He failed to comment on construction cost or a time line of how long it would take to build the wheel. The London Eye in London, England sits 443 ft over the River Thames. It has attracted more than 27 million visitors since its formal opening on December 31, 1999. Each compartment is set to be air-conditioned and hold up to 30 people. Three possible locations for the wheel to sit have been selected. This is not the first attempt by the Iraqi Tourism Board to bring tourists into the capital. The board are seeking investors for a resort island. The island would include a six star hotel and a 18 hole golf course. The United Kingdom's Foreign Office advises against all travel to Baghdad. A spokesperson said "The security situation in Iraq remains highly dangerous with a continuing high threat of terrorism throughout the country."The game publisher Konami stated today in a Japanese newspaper that they will not be releasing the game Six Days in Fallujah. The game is based on the Second Battle of Fallujah, a vicious battle between American and Iraqi forces."After seeing the reaction to the video game in the United States and hearing opinions sent through phone calls and e-mail, we decided several days ago not to sell it," Tokyo based Konami told the newspaper. “We had intended to convey the reality of the battles to players so that they could feel what it was like to be there."The developer of the game, Atomic Games, received controversial feedback from families of dead soldiers stating the game's concept as "exploitative and distasteful", as paraphrased by the The Wall Street Journal.That paper also quoted a woman whose son had died in the Iraq war, who said "These people who aren't affected by the war get to sit on their couch and play this 'fun' game."Video game developer Atomic Games has not yet stated a reaction to Konami's announcement.After what was almost certain defeat, Ireland's Padraig Harrington has come back to win the 136th British Open in playoff after Spain's Sergio Garcia missed what should have been a game winning putt. Harrington originally was knocked out of the game when he landed his ball twice in Carnoustie Golf Links' infamous Burry Burn leading him to a double bogey. However, Garica bogeyed on the same hole leading to a playoff.The two men had tied 277, seven under par.The earliest surviving complete census of Ireland is now available freely online. It may be viewed through the website of the National Archives of Ireland.Within the census are more than 4.5 million records from 850,000 households across the 32 counties; the information covers the night of Sunday March 31, 1901. 1911 Census records were made available online in 2009, subsequently attracting more than 260 million hits.The 1901 census lists a number of now-famous Irish people; James Joyce as a 19-year-old student living with his family in Fairview, Dublin. Author Peig Sayers, under her married name of Margaret Guiheen, on Great Blasket Island. A 22-year-old Pádraig Pearse, one of the leaders of the Easter Rising and Edward (Eamon) de Valera, a significant leader of Ireland's struggle for independence, at the time an 18-year-old boarder in Blackrock College, are also included.The majority of 19th century Irish census records are now lost for a variety of reasons, including a fire at the Public Records Office during the 1922 Irish Civil War.Digitisation of the records cost almost €4 million; the work was carried out by the National Archives of Ireland in partnership with Library and Archives of Canada.A song proclaiming that United States president-elect Barack Obama is Irish has got more than 600,000 views on video sharing site YouTube, with many of those views coming after he was elected on November 4."O'Leary, O'Reilly, O'Hare and O'Hara, There's no one as Irish as Barack O'Bama," states the song. "You don't believe me, I hear you say. But Barack's as Irish, as was JFK. His granddaddy's daddy came from Moneygall, a small Irish village, well known to you all".Moneygall is located on the border of the Irish county of Offaly. It is primarily residential although it also features open space around the edge of the village and non-residential buildings in the centre. The village has one main road, and a few smaller roads leading out of it.Obama, who won the recent U.S. election as the Democratic presidential nominee, won 360 electoral votes, more than enough to clinch the Presidency of the United States. He is the first African American to be elected President in U.S. history.On Monday, 46-year-old Dolores O'Riordan, lead singer of Irish rock band The Cranberries, was found dead, her publicist Lindsey Holmes confirmed; reports suggested she was found in her room at the London Hilton on Park Lane hotel. O'Riordan's agent said she was in London, England, for a recording session. According to the police, her death was considered "unexplained" and no cause of death disclosed, though it was to be investigated. Later one of the richest women of Ireland, O'Riordan joined the rock band, then known as "the Cranberry Saw Us", as a teenager around 1989, after Niall Quinn had left the band. Also featuring drummer Fergal Lawler, bassist Mike Hogan and his brother Noel Hogan, the lead guitarist, the band released their first album Everybody Else Is Doing It, So Why Can't We? in 1993. The debut album featuring single Linger was an international success. The band went on to release six more albums  featuring O'Riordan's voice, including Something Else, which was released last year.A year later, in 1994, the band released their second studio album, No Need to Argue, which featured the song Zombie,  a song about bombings related to Northern Ireland. Zombie topped the singles charts in various countries. In the same year, O'Riordan married Don Burton, sometime manager of the Duran Duran band. Their third album, To the Faithful Departed, was released in 1996. The album did not receive the acclamation of the first two.In 2003, the band split, and it was reunited in 2009. During those six years, O'Riordan released two solo albums — Are You Listening? in 2007 and No Baggage in 2009. 2012's Roses was the first album The Cranberries released after reunification.Last year, O'Riordan revealed through London's Metro newspaper she had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. She also spoke of suffering from depression to The Irish News. In 2014, the singer was involved in assaulting a flight attendant and three police officials on a flight from New York, US to Ireland. She was fined €6000 (US$6600) after she pleaded guilty; medical reports said she suffered from mental illness during that incident. Last year, the band's tour to North America and Europe for Something Else was cancelled partway through as O'Riordan suffered from a back problem.After announcement of O'Riordan's death, Irish prime minister Leo Varadkar tweeted, "For anyone who grew up in Ireland in the 1990s, Dolores O'Riordan was the voice of a generation. As the female lead singer of a hugely successful rock band, she blazed a trail and might just have been Limerick's greatest ever rock star. RIP."The official twitter handle of The Cranberries posted a tweet saying, "We are devastated on the passing of our friend Dolores. She was an extraordinary talent and we feel very privileged to have been part of her life from 1989 when we started the Cranberries. The world has lost a true artist today."Born on September 6, 1971 in Ballybricken, a town in southeastern Ireland, O'Riordan had six older siblings. She wrote songs since the age of twelve. James Walton, a priest from her home area, said, "The plan is for her to be buried here at home. When that will be will depend on when her body is released."Dolores O'Riordan is survived by three children and ex-husband Don Burton.A woman from Limerick, in the Republic of Ireland, has won a record European lottery win on the EuroMillions cross-European lottery draw. Delores McNamara won €115.6 million, tax-free in the game, after the jackpot had rolled over un-won for 9 weeks.The Garryowen woman will have to wait until at least Tuesday, August 2nd, to claim her winnings, as the Irish National Lottery offices are closed for the August Bank Holiday.Aerial photos were released Friday of an uncontacted native group in Brazil. The pictures were taken along the Peruvian border near the Envira River. According to David Hill, a researcher at Survival International, these are the first photos taken in the area for 20 years.They were taken by a collaborative effort of the Brazilian National Indian Foundation (Fundação Nacional do Índio, or FUNAI) and the Special Secretariat of Indigenous People of the Government of Acre. FUNAI has been keeping tribes under surveillance in this area for the last 20 years but does not make contact with such groups. FUNAI also helps to prevent invasion of their lands to ensure their autonomy.An estimated 500 natives live in the area near the Envira River, which is being threatened by commercial logging operations.The pictures, taken by a helicopter flying overhead, show a group of men painted red and pointing bows and arrows towards the helicopter. FUNAI officials state that the group live in six longhouses. They do not know what tribe the group belongs to.The pictures were taken in order to show the world that these uncontacted people exist. Such tribes are under risk from reduction in their land, disease, and invasion.An Israeli rocket has struck the Press TV building in the Gaza Strip. According to the news agency, other television news stations called Al-Alam and Al Arabiya are also based inside the building. At least two people have been injured. The attack occurred at about 15:40 GMT.There was no warning prior to the attack and only journalists were inside the building when the rocket hit. Press TV states that some of their broadcasting equipment on the building's roof was damaged in the blast. According to live video being broadcast by Press TV, journalists on the roof are marked with 'TV' or 'press' on their coats and helmets. Press TV uses the roof of their building to broadcast most of their live video feeds of Gaza.The agency claims that they were given assurance by the Israeli military that the building would not be targeted. The agency also states that coordinates of the building were given to the Israeli military everyday so they would not attack the building or mistake news crews for Hamas militants.Despite the claim by witnesses and Press TV employees, a spokesperson for the IDF states that the building was not a target and was likely a result of "collateral damage." There are no reports of other buildings having been hit in the area around the Press TV building.Press TV states that regardless of the attack, they are still "prepared to show the horrific attacks by the IDF (Israeli Defense Force) with graphic images of children being killed".Press TV, an Iranian based news agency, is one of few international news agencies broadcasting live video feeds of Gaza and currently has more journalists in Gaza than any other world news agency.The European Union chose Istanbul, Turkey's and Europe's largest city,  as one of the three European Capitals of Culture for 2010 in 2006, along with Pécs in Hungary, and Essen in Germany. With its rich heritage and urban life, Istanbul is already recognized as one of the world's great cultural capitals.Istanbul beat Kiev, Ukraine's capital, for the title and became the last European Capital of Culture outside the EU; after 2010, non-EU cities can no longer apply.The celebrations started with a protocol event taking place at the Haliç Congress Centre, where Ministers from Turkey as well as neighbouring countries participated."Istanbul is a European city. With its heart, its culture and civilisation, its people, its past and future, it has always looked towards Europe. Istanbul has shaped European culture and has been shaped by it." said Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the country's Prime Minister.Earlier this month, over 150 delegates from cultural institutions, government and the online community gathered at the Australian War Memorial in Canberra over one and a half days for the first GLAM-WIKI conference. The conference brought together representatives from the GLAM sector, comprising galleries, libraries, archives and museums, politicians, and members of the Wikimedia community (who edit the online encyclopedia Wikipedia and its sister sites), to enter into a dialogue regarding ways the three areas can work collaboratively to preserve and promote cultural collections online.Highlights from the conference included keynote speeches by Wikimedia Foundation Chief Program Officer Jennifer Riggs and Senator Kate Lundy, as well as a panel discussion on the political pressures involved in improving and disseminating GLAM organisations' online collections featuring Senator Lundy as well as Senator Scott Ludlam, ACT Legislative Assembly shadow minister Alistair Coe, Government 2.0 Taskforce member Seb Chan, Adjunct Director to the Digital Library of the National Library of New Zealand Paul Reynolds and Kylie Johnson, the New Media Advisor for the Department of the Environment, Water, Heritage and the Arts. Sessions focused on ways the Wikimedia and GLAM communities could better work together to further their missions of preserving, curating and sharing cultural knowledge, with streams examining the topics of legal and technical barriers, and the impact on business and education.Two case studies were presented at the conference, the first being the Powerhouse Museum's experimental release of some of their photographic collection to Flickr Commons, and the second the collaboration between the German Wikimedia chapter and German Federal Archives to release their collection to Wikimedia Commons. While these and other projects were examined as successful forays into open content, the recent legal action between the United Kingdom's National Portrait Gallery and a Wikimedian was raised in most sessions as an example of such efforts having negative consequences.Delegates at the conference engaged in heated discussion both on- and offline, with the #GLAM-WIKI tag on Twitter generating over 500 tweets during the course of the first day. Overall, feedback from participants was strongly positive over both the event and its plans for the future.Liam Wyatt, the Vice President of the Australian Wikimedia Chapter and organiser of the event, was impressed by the turnout. According to Wyatt, "at 170 registrations it is one of the largest Wikimedia events ever, after [international Wikimedia conference] Wikimania, and to be able to offer that for no attendance fee is testament to the support we received from our partners - most especially the WMF ... There are many proposals and discussions that are now starting up as a result of the event and, rightly, these may take quite some time to bear fruit. However, what I think we have achieved immediately is to take the heat out of the debate between the cultural sector and the Wikimedia community."Jennifer Riggs was similarly impressed by the dialogue that came as a result of the conference. "It's gone terrifically, really. People have had the opportunity to be really frank about the concerns that they have."The Tuesday drawing of the Italian Superenalotto game has awarded the biggest prize ever won in a betting game in Italy. The single winner of the first category prize (6 numbers guessed) will receive an amount, including the jackpot from previous un-won draws, of €72.090.405,19 (US$93 million.) The prize money will be received in full without further taxation, since taxes in prizes of that type are taken at a fixed rate by the Italian State from the money paid for the bet.The winning card was purchased in a café in Milan. The betting game, in some respects similar to Powerball in the USA, but without the special number, requires guessing 6 numbers out of 90.There is not a drawing for the Superenalotto itself. Numbers are taken from the drawing of another Italian lottery game called the national Lotto. If you guess all 6 numbers in Superenalotto, you win the highest prize.One additional number is drawn from the Lotto drawing. If you have guessed 5 numbers of the normal Superenalotto 6, where the additional number is called the Jolly number or Joker number, you win a runner-up prize (somewhat less than the full 6 award). Called the 5+1 prize, it was just won in the previous drawing on April 30. There are minor prizes for 5, 4 or 3 numbers guessed, but only the full 6 and 5+1 prize have the jackpot mechanism.The Italian Geographic Society (Società Geografica Italiana) celebrates the 140th anniversary of its foundation (1867). Today an official ceremony, the first of a series, was held in the Palazzetto Mattei at Villa Celimontana in Rome, Italy, where the Society is based in a historical palace. The former chief of state Francesco Cossiga, a honorary member of the Society, was among the many personalities invited to the ceremony. Professor Salvatori, in his welcoming speech, summarized the historical growth and the principal results of the institution, starting with its first expeditions in Africa at the beginning of the 20th century, underlining the modernity of the latest programs recently launched. Also, the many agreements with international institutions and universities and the activities for the preservation and advancement of the geographical culture, Salvatori said, keep the Society at a level of excellence in its field.The Society received the compliments and greetings of the principal Italian institutions. Messages were read which came from Mr. Napolitano, current chief of state, and other authorities. Representatives from UNESCO, CNR (Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche), Accademia dei Lincei, and the well known IGM, Military Geographical Institute (Istituto Geografico Militare), among other ones, brought the salute and the gratitude of their own institutions.Most speakers pointed out the extraordinary scientific patrimony collected over time by the Society (450.000+ volumes, rare ancient maps, technical studies, images), which is among the greatest sources of academic pride for Italy. Further, its international prestige was complimented: the Society hosts in Palazzetto Mattei the European Geographic Society (EUGEO), as well as the so-called "Home of Geography" (for the International Geographical Union), and is involved at a primary level in a UNESCO program for the Education in the Sustainable Development.Celebrations will continue over the next days.Wikimedia Italia, WMF's local chapter, was invited and two members attended the celebrations.An Italian court today ruled that marriages conducted over the telephone are admissible under Italian law.Mushtaq Z. C., a Pakistani national who lives in Italy under a work permit, had permission to bring his wife to the country refused by the Italian Embassy on the 20th of September 2006, on that grounds that a wedding celebrated by telephone could not be valid. Mushtaq had remained in Italy when he married his wife who was back home in Pakistan.The Tribunale dell'Immigrazione di Milano ruled that, under Italian law, Mushtaq's right to bring someone to Italy as his wife could only be judged on the basis of the legitimacy of the marriage under the laws the country in which the marriage had been conducted. Mushtaq was able to demonstrate to the court not just a marriage certificate from Pakistan but a video of the wedding celebration in Pakistan in which relatives and friends had celebrated the event in the absence of the happy couple.The court ruled, therefore, that the happy couple could finally meet at an airport somewhere in Italy and live as man and wife within the country.Umberto Eco, semiotician, philosopher, and novelist, died on yesterday night at the age of 84 at his home in Milan, according to his family.  He had cancer.Eco was born in Alessandria, northern Italy, on January 5, 1932 and attended University of Turin, focusing on Medieval philosophy and literature. In 1956–1964 he worked closely with the Italian television station RAI. In 1975 Eco became a University of Bologna semiotics professor.Though an essayist, he is best known for his first novel The Name of the Rose, published in 1980 and later made into a motion picture directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud, starring Sean Connery. After the successful debut he wrote more novels, the most recent, Numero Zero, published in 2015.Eco's wife and two children survive him.A spokesperson stated on Monday that UK television company ITV have been fined A$3000 (about US$2591 or £1663) for cruelty to animals in an incident on programme "I'm a Celebrity…Get Me Out of Here!", where two celebrities killed and ate a rat.The incident involved actor Stuart Manning and television chef Gino D'Acampo, who went on to win the ninth series of the programme, which was broadcast in 2009. Inside the jungle, having been reduced to rations of beans and rice, the two celebrities caught a rat before killing it and then cooking it, to give the beans and rice "more protein", before eating the rat, which contestant and actor George Hamilton described as "actually quite nice". Inside the programme's video diary room, at the time of the recording of it, Gino D'Acampo said: "I saw one of these rats running around. I got a knife, I got its throat, I picked it up."RSPCA Australia had stated that performing an act like this on television was "not acceptable". Initially, Manning and D'Acampo were charged for animal cruelty. However, their charges were dropped when ITV made the confession that production staff had allowed the celebrities to carry out the act of killing the rat. After a court trial in Sydney, Australia, ITV got a fine of A$3000. The company also had to pay costs of A$2500 (US$2192 or £1396).An ITV spokesperson said that "ITV has apologised for the mistake which led to this incident. The production was unaware that killing a rat could be an offence, criminal or otherwise in New South Wales, and accepts that further inquiries should have been made. This was an oversight and we have since thoroughly reviewed our procedures and are putting in place a comprehensive training programme to ensure that this does not happen in future series."ITV is to postpone broadcast of the 2007 British Comedy Awards, after it was discovered to have been involved in Britain's recent phone-in scandals.In July this year, a scandal was uncovered about the 2005 awards. Viewers were encouraged to phone a premium-rate phone line to vote for the People's Choice Award (which was won by Ant and Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway). At 22:30, the coverage of the ceremony was stopped whilst ITV1 broadcast the news, and returned at 23:00. However, the ceremony kept going whilst the news was being delivered. When it returned, the viewers watch what was assumed to be a live broadcast, and kept on voting, when in fact the ceremony was over and the People's Choice Award had been given. As a result, all votes given after this time were pointless and the money spent by viewers was wasted.In a statement, ITV said, "ITV have today asked media law firm Olswang to conduct an investigation into an issue that has arisen in respect of the British Comedy Awards 2005. Pending conclusion of the investigation, broadcast of the British Comedy Awards 2007 will be postponed. ITV will not make any further comment regarding this matter until the conclusion of the investigation." Meanwhile, Olswang are also investigating another ITV programme, Malcolm and Barbara: Love's Farewell, where ITV wrongly claimed that it showed the dying moments of man suffering from Alzheimer's disease.The British Comedy Awards have been broadcast on ITV since their creation in 1990. Notable television moments to have come from the show have included camp comedian Julian Clary claiming he has been fisting conservative Member of Parliament Norman Lamont and Goon Show creator Spike Milligan calling fan Prince Charles a, "grovelling little bastard".Other than the British Comedy Awards, British comedy is also awarded in the BAFTAs, the if.comedy award (formally the Perrier Comedy Award), the Chortle Student Comedy Awards and the British Sitcom Guide Awards. The British Comedy Awards themselves were parodied by a Chris Morris fansite "Cook'd and Bomb'd" in 2005, with the Comedy Tumbleweed Awards, which dishonour the worst of British comedy.On December 7, Wikinews first reported that some Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in the United Kingdom, were filtering access to an image and an article on the popular, free online encyclopedia Wikipedia, amid allegations that they contain child pornography. The filter was brought into play by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), which has stated that today they have removed the ban.The IWF said, in a statement on its website, that "the decision has been taken to remove this webpage from our list." However, the organization does maintain that "the image in question is potentially in breach of the Protection of Children Act 1978."At approximately 19:45 UTC, the ban was removed for customers of Virgin Media, who were previously unable to access the Virgin Killer article or the associated image.The image and article in question is that of the 1976 album Virgin Killer, a studio album by the Scorpions, a German rock band.  The controversy began after the image of the album's original cover, which depicted a naked prepubescent girl, was reported to the IWF in early December. Wikinews first discovered the controversial image in May 2008 after there were several attempts to delete it on Wikipedia. The image had been blocked because the IWF considered it to be "potentially illegal". As a result, the IWF have contacted authorities in the United States and in the UK.The measures applied redirect Wikipedia-bound traffic from a significant portion of the UK's Internet population through a small number of servers which can log and filter the content that is available to the end user. A serious side-effect of this is the inability of administrators on Wikimedia sites to block vandals and other troublemakers without potentially impacting hundreds of thousands of innocent contributors who are working on the sites in good faith.Contributors or individuals attempting to view an affected image or file, depending on their ISP, may get a warning saying, "we have blocked this page because, according to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), it contains indecent images of children or pointers to them; you could be breaking UK law if you viewed the page.". Other ISPs provide blank pages, 404 errors, or other means of blocking the content.File:RyanDunn-HOB.jpgRyan Dunn, one of the stars of the TV series Jackass, has died in a car accident aged 34. The accident occurred near West Chester, Pennsylvania early yesterday morning, when the car Dunn was driving left the road and crashed into a tree. The vehicle burst into flames; Dunn's body was identified by his tattoos. An unidentified passenger also died in the accident. Police suspect speed to have been a factor.Dunn's death was announced by April Margera, the mother of one of his co-stars, Bam Margera. MTV released a statement saying "We are devastated by the tragic loss of Ryan Dunn — a beloved member of the MTV family for more than a decade."Jackass started in 2000 after a series of internet clips were released showing Dunn skateboarding and performing stunts along with Margera, Christopher Raab and Brandon DiCamillo. The show was created after Johnny Knoxville contacted the group to ask if he could use their videos on the show.As well as the TV series and three Jackass movies, Dunn also appeared on Viva La Bam and presented his own shows, Homewrecker and Proving Ground.In just over 24 hours, the Mega Millions lottery jackpot in the United States has risen to US$330,000,000 to make it the third largest lottery jackpot in the world.On Thursday, the jackpot was at $325 million and it still could rise before the drawing takes place tonight at 8:00 p.m. (pacific time), 11:00 p.m. (eastern time).Twelve states in the U.S. participate in the lottery and the odds of at least one person winning the jackpot are one in 175,711,536. It costs just one dollar to purchase a ticket and if you win, you can receive the winnings in sums of 36,000 for every million won, each year, or receive it all in one lump sum which totals just under $200 million before taxes.On March 6, 2007, the Mega Millions jackpot of US$390 million, the highest lottery jackpot ever in the world, was paid out to two individuals who lived in Georgia and New Jersey. If no one wins Friday's jackpot, which will have rolled over 16 times without a single winner, it could break the record for the largest lottery jackpot ever.Citing a lack of results from the primary autopsy by the Los Angeles (LA) Coroner's Office of Michael Jackson's body, the Jackson family has requested that an independent coroner examine the body in hopes of finding the cause of death. The LA Coroner's have ruled out foul play, but the toxicological tests could take as long as 6 weeks, and as of now have not specified the reason for Jackson's death. The Coroner's officer has stated though the decision for an independent autopsy was surprising, they didn't have any issues with allowing it.The Jackson family has been unable to contact Michael Jackson's personal physician, Conrad Murray, who was with the star during his final hours. Police have stated that Dr. Murray is not a suspect, but they are attempting to set up an interview. Reverend Jesse Jackson, an American civil rights activist and Baptist minister, has been in contact with the family and has been providing counseling. He stated "they [the Jacksons] didn't know the doctor...He should have met with the family, given them comfort on the last hours of their son." An associate of Ed Chernoff, Dr. Murray's lawyer, stated that "contrary to what has been out there, Dr. Murray has been co-operating with authorities from the outset and will continue to do so."Firefighters have confirmed that the large James Bond sound stage at Pinewood Studios has been destroyed by fire. It is thought eight fire engines were called to the scene near Iver Heath in Buckinghamshire on Sunday morning, where filming for Casino Royale, the latest Bond movie, has been completed. Jen McVean witnessed the event, and she said the stage was “completely on fire”. The set had been transformed into a replica of the Italian city of Venice, but Mrs McVean, who owns a firm at the studios, said: “Nothing is salvageable and there are many, many fire engines there.” One spokesman said around 40 to 50 firefighters were at the scene. It is reported that fire damage caused the building’s roof to fall in and firefighters were damping the flames down with specialist equipment. “We do not know the extent of the damage to the 007 stage, although it is believed to be significant,” a spokesman for Pinewood Studios said. “Filming was not taking place. A production had completed filming and its film sets were in the process of being removed,” he added.No one was reported injured in the incident.Pinewood, which was created in 1935, was the filming ground for Dr No, the first ever James Bond movie in 1962. It merged with Shepperton Studios in 2001, and high-budget movies like Harry Potter and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory have since been filmed there.  In 1984, a sound stage caught fire, but it reopened in January 1985 and was named the Albert Brocolli sound stage in honour of the man who produced many Bond films. In 1997, Pinewood was hit by fire again after flames broke out in the roof of a sound building where The Avengers was being recorded.On Tuesday, British actor Roger Moore, best known for portraying Simon Templar of the 1960s series The Saint and the spy character James Bond, died in Switzerland at the age of 89.Before his death, Moore fought recently diagnosed cancer. His family confirmed his death on Twitter saying, "It is the heaviest of hearts, we must share the awful news that our father, Sir Roger Moore, passed away today. We are all devastated."Other stars paid tribute to Roger Moore via Twitter, including Russell Crowe, Michael Ball, Mia Farrow, Boy George, and Duran Duran, who sang the eponymous theme song for Bond film A View to a Kill featuring Moore as Bond.Moore was born in Stockwell, South London an only child to his working-class parents on October 14, 1927. During World War II, he and his mother mostly stayed in Amersham, 25 miles from London. Moore left grammar school in 1943 to work.Moore's father, a detective sergeant, came to the home of film director Brian Desmond Hurst that had been robbed. Moore was introduced by his father to Hurst and then started his acting career in summer 1944 as an extra in the film Caesar and Cleopatra. Impressed, Hurst helped Moore gain extra parts in two other films and then paid for Moore's acting studies at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts.Moore was assigned to the National Service in 1945 and then, after training, was ranked captain. Afterwards, he appeared in modeling engagements, like appearance in Women's Own magazine.Moore arrived in the United States in 1953 and then signed a contract with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) for mainly supporting roles. He portrayed the male lead in 1956 film Diane. He first appeared on television as the titular character of the late-1950s ITV series Ivanhoe. He later appeared in some western series, like Maverick from 1960 to 1961, replacing James Garner as the lead of the series.Moore then portrayed Simon Templar, stealing from rich antagonists, in the ITV series The Saint. The series ran 118 episodes from 1962 to 1969. Due to his contract for The Saint, Moore was prevented from being cast as James Bond for the 1962 film Dr. No, which stars Sean Connery, the first actor to portray Bond.Moore eventually became the third actor to portray Bond, and his first Bond film was the 1973 film Live and Let Die. He would appear again as Bond in six more films: The Man with the Golden Gun, 1974; The Spy Who Loved Me, 1977; Moonraker, 1979; For Your Eyes Only, 1981; Octopussy, 1983; and A View to a Kill, 1985.In 1991 Moore became a UNICEF goodwill ambassador. His UNICEF work earned him Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the late 1990s. He was knighted in 2003 for that.Throughout 2000s, Moore performed voiceovers in mostly animated films and made appearances in some other live-action films, like the 2002 film Boat Trip, portraying a gay man resembling Bond. Then he wrote his 2008 autobiography My Word Is My Bond and other books, including memoir One Lucky Bastard and Bond on Bond.Moore married four times, to four different women. He was survived by his fourth wife, Danish-Swedish multimillionaire Kristina "Kiki" Tholstrup, and his three children.James Cameron, director of the $1.8 billion grossing film, Titanic, has signed up special effects studio, Weta Digital of Wellington, New Zealand for his next sci-fi film, Avatar.Weta Digital, owned by Peter Jackson, Richard Taylor and Jamie Selkirk, will provide the visual effects, of which the movie will be mostly of, excluding some action shots in the USA, for the NZ$322 million film. The visual effects will also include performance capture animation where the actors movements are translated onto an animated character. Weta Digital is famous for this with characters Gollum in The Lord of the Rings and King Kong in King Kong modelled after actor Andy Serkis.The reason that Cameron chose Weta Digital over other special effects studios is "Weta have proven themselves a leader in visionary effects. Along with their world-class capability comes a genuine passion to blaze new trails." Cameron said.Cameron also added that "We may end up with stars in Avatar but it's not a requirement."The Avatar film is a movie about a war veteran that is fighting aliens on other planets. The movie will be launched in 2008.James Montgomery Doohan, the Canadian actor best known for playing the role of Star Trek's "Scotty" the engineer died Wednesday of pneumonia after a long battle with Alzheimer's disease. He was 85 years old.Now, Doohan's family is hoping to beam him up to the "Final Frontier" that Scotty loved so dearly. The actor had told relatives he wanted his ashes blasted into outer space, as was done for "Star Trek" creator Gene Roddenberry. "He'll be there with his buddy, which is wonderful," said Doohan's agent and longtime friend, Steve Stevens.At the time of his death, he was living in Redmond, Washington in the United States with his wife and their three young children. Doohan was born in Vancouver and participated in World War II as a captain in the Royal Canadian Artillery. He lost the middle finger of his right hand at the Invasion of Juno Beach on D-Day, a bloody scene immortalized in the 1998 Steven Spielberg film Saving Private Ryan. Doohan was among the film's greatest supporters, thanking the director for not sanitizing the gore of the actual event.He started his acting career with a radio appearance at a CBC show and went on to act in several character roles. Doohan had already made a name for himself in the entertainment business as a featured voice actor in Canadian and U.S. radio dramas and motion picture voice-overs due to his knack for picking up linguistically perfect accents. His ability to affect a near-perfect Scottish accent made him a natural for the role of Scotty, according to producers at the time.When he auditioned for what would become the role of his life in 1966, Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry asked him which of the different accents Doohan mastered would best suit the role of Scotty. Doohan respond that he believed "all the world's best engineers have been Scottish". After the original Star Trek series had ended, Doohan found himself typecast and had difficulties getting other roles.Doohan suffered from Parkinson's as well as Alzheimer's disease. In August last year he received a star on Hollywood's Walk of fame.After DeForest Kelley, Doohan is the second actor of the original Star Trek cast to die.He is survived by his wife Wende, with whom he had been married since 1975, and seven children.Jamie Lee Curtis, 47, has stated that she will end her acting career, but said that she will continue writing."I'm not an actor anymore," she told Access Hollywood host Nancy O'Dell. "I really don't imagine I'll do that again." She later said in the conversation, "I'm just focused on my family and just can't imagine anything that's going to pull me away from them right now."Curtis appeared on the Access Hollywood show to promote her newest children's book, Is There a Human Race?. The interview she participated in with O'Dell will appear on the show's weekend episode.The picture book writer had this to say about ending her acting career, "No. I don't want to be somebody else anymore."The last film Curtis starred in was the 2005 film The Kid & I.Japan banned possession of child pornography though a bill passed in the Upper House of Japanese Parliament yesterday. The ban prohibits owning a real life image of child pornography depicting a child under the age of eighteen. However, this does not include depictions of children in computer-generated or drawn forms, such as anime and manga.Japan banned child pornography production and distribution fifteen years ago, however possession had remained legal until now. Possession of child pornography under these new laws may involve financial penalty of up to one million yen (about US$10,000 or euro7,000) or a year in jail. Individuals who currently possess child pornography are to be given a year to dispose of the material as the penalties are to be unenforced for the first year the law is in effect.Bill supporter Kiyohiko Toyama of the New Komeito Party, speaking to Reuters, said "For too long, there was a poor understanding of children's rights. Ultimately, that's why it's taken so long [...] By outlawing the possession of child pornography with the intent to satisfy sexual interest, we make it harder for people to trade in such material."While sexual images depicting real-life children have been banned, depictions in anime and manga have not. Last month the metropolitan government of Tokyo did restrict manga comics depicting incest by prohibiting their sale to children.Justice Minister Sadakazu Tanigaki said on Tuesday, "We must fight against a tendency of looking at children as sexual objects, and allowing them to be taken advantage of, sexually and commercially".Some manga artists, publishers, and free-speech activists have objected to the censure of manga content, saying it encroaches on the right to free speech. Some objectors cite Japanese government press controls during the lead-up to World War II.Japanese anime and film producer Yoshinobu Nishizaki has died at the age of 75 after he fell out of a boat just off the Ogasawara Islands. He had been preparing to swim. The coastguard recovered his body after 20 minutes but he died two hours later. Nishizaki was best known for his work on the series Space Battleship Yamato.Nishizaki co-created Space Battleship Yamato with Leiji Matsumoto. The pair later fell out after a dispute over franchise rights. The argument also involved the Tohoku-shinsha Film Corp.Nishizaki's career was sometimes controversial; in the 1990s he was placed on bail after he was caught with multiple illegal substances. It has been alleged that he smuggled arms including an assault rifle and grenade launcher from the Philippines whilst bailed. In 1999 he was again arrested, this time for drug and firearms charges. He later handed over his weapons to the police.Eight people are currently being questioned over the circumstances of Nishizaki's death.Ochi Yosuke, from Japan, has retained his title at the world air guitar championships, held in Oulu, Northern Finland.Yosuke was one of a range of international competitors, who had qualified for last night's final in the Teatria rock club, where they performed in front of a panel of judges.French competitor Guillaume "Moche Pitt" de Tonquedec told reporters "It's great. We've seen all the nations, united nations, 'rocking on the free world' and that's good, that's great,".The contestants who qualified for the finals were from Finland, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, Canada, Germany, Switzerland and Spain. The surprise finalist was local female Oulu resident Hilkka "Gore Kitty" Suvanto, who has twice previously received the lowest score in qualifying.The performers each mimed one song of their choice, and improvised to one set by a jury. The panel of four judges each gave scores out of six, based on stage persona, technical skill and a quality known as "airness".Yosuke's prize for the victory is custom built; a Flying Finn electric guitar with a value of U.S.$3,400.Oscar Peterson, a Canadian jazz pianist who earned many honours during his decades-long career, died Sunday in Mississauga, Ontario aged 82.The Montreal-born Peterson learned to play piano in childhood and by the 1940s was actively performing in Canadian big bands such as the Johnny Holmes Orchestra. A groundbreaking performance at New York's Carnegie Hall in 1949 brought Peterson's career to an international level.Among many honours, he was appointed a Companion of theOrder of Canada, the nation's highest civilian honour, in 1984. He also received seven Grammy Awards and in 1978 was inducted into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame.After initially being carried by only 45 stations nationwide, the host of the long-running syndicated program, The Jerry Springer Show will eventually have his radio show heard on all 51 Air America affiliates. The show also is planned to be broadcast by the Sirius and XM satellite radio services. Springer said he is committed to making his radio show a success. "Progressive, populist voices need to be a part of our nation's dialogue," Springer said in a press release. "I hope I can make a contribution." Although best-known for his low-budget, tongue-in-cheek talk show, Springer does have a political pedigree. He was a Democrat mayor of Cincinnati in 1977 and made a failed bid for governor of Ohio in 1982.American actress Jessica Alba, 26, has announced her engagement to producer, and father of their unborn child, Cash Warren.The pair met on the set of the movie The Fantastic Four, where Warren was a directors assistant. They have been together since 2004, although they did briefly split at one point.Alba made the announcement via her publicist, Brad Cafarelli, who said "I can confirm they are engaged." She had only announced her pregnancy earlier this month, and the child is expected in spring or summer next year.As well as Fantastic Four, Alba has starred in Dark Angel, Sin City, Good Luck Chuck, The Ten and Awake.Jessica Watson, a 16-year-old Australian, became the youngest person to sail around the world unassisted and alone when she arrived in Sydney Harbor earlier today.Watson, from Buderim, Queensland, departed from Sydney October 18, last year. In 210 days, she traveled by herself for over 23,000 nautical miles on a 34-foot (10.4m) yacht, called Ella's Pink Lady. Watson completed her journey days before her seventeenth birthday.When Watson neared land, a large assortment of other watercraft began to parade alongside her yacht. She was greeted by Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, who called her "Australia's newest hero." However, Watson disagreed with the comment, saying, "I don't consider myself a hero." Rudd also congratulated her with a free driving lesson and a copy of the Australian "Keys to Drive" program.Prior to her voyage, Watson caught some criticism when she first announced her intention to sail solo around the world. Some thought that she was too young and too inexperienced to safely travel alone, but Watson's mother stated that she had been sailing since she was eight years old. Last week, it was questioned whether Watson had sailed far enough past the Equator to satisfy the requirements for achieving the record. Watson's record is unofficial because the World Speed Sailing Record Council no longer has a category for the sailors under eighteen. Jesse Martin, also Australian, held the previous record in 1999, when he was eighteen.British author J.K. Rowling has revealed the title of the seventh and final book in the Harry Potter series in an online game on her official website. Contenders would click on items to reveal a chamber, then they would use the clues given and guess the title. After fans played a game they were rewarded with the title of the book which is to be called Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows. She also revealed that Harry had been taking place in her dreams and she was returning to writing in cafes, as she did 13 years ago."One character got a reprieve but I have to say that two die that I didn't intend to die," Rowling, 41, said June 27 on Richard & Judy, a television show run in the U.K.The book is first published in the U.K. by London-based Bloomsbury and then sent to the U.S. by Scholastic Corp."I'm writing scenes that have been planned, in some cases, for a dozen years or even more," Rowling wrote on her website. "I don't think anyone who has not been in a similar situation can possibly know how this feels: I am alternately elated and overwrought. I both want, and don't want, to finish this book (don't worry, I will)."The film version of Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, the fifth book in the series published June 21, 2003, is still in production and will be released in July 2007.Rowling was inspired to write after her mother died from multiple sclerosis in 1990 and after a marriage breakdown. She started writing in Edinburgh cafés. Whenever her daughter Jessica fell asleep she would put her in a carriage beside her and stroll her to the closest café. 300 million books worldwide have been sold and the series has been translated into 47 languages.No publication date has been set.Joe McElderry has won the sixth series of the UK X Factor, in a hotly contested final with Olly Murs, after the third finalist, Stacey Solomon was voted off last night.  McElderry was the favourite earlier this evening with odds of 2/9 from both Ladbrokes and William Hill, compared to 3/1 odds for Murs.  Joe's family had clubbed together to bet on his winning the show, even before the first live show was aired, at odds of 14/1.  They are expected to receive approximately £14,000.On Saturday night, McElderry sung Don't Let The Sun Go Down On Me with George Michael, who said that Joe "rose to the occasion...I think he's got a great future."  He also received a video message from Kylie Minogue after his performance, in which she said "I'm sending you lots of love and kisses. Have fun."  McElderry is from South Shields, Newcastle and born in 1991, began singing at 14.  He auditioned for The X Factor in 2007, but felt too young when compared to the other contestants.  Together with Lloyd Daniels and Rikki Loney he was mentored by Cheryl Cole, one of the four X Factor judges.The weekend's prime time shows are expected to have had more than 18 million viewers, with one analyst estimating £100m of revenue going to ITV from the autumn show.  ITV also hope that it will aid in turning around their declining revenue.As is tradition, McElderry will release a single next week in an attempt to gain the Christmas Number 1 chart spot. In recent years, the X Factor single has always gained that accolade.The mystery of the location of a viewpoint used by English painter John Constable has been solved, after nearly 200 years.  The Stour Valley and Dedham Church was painted in Suffolk, England, between 1814 and 1815, but changes to the landscape meant that the spot he chose was not known, despite the best efforts of historians and art experts.Now the puzzle has been answered. Martin Atkinson, who works for the National Trust as property manager for East Suffolk, used clues from the painting and looked at old maps to track down the viewpoint. Trees had grown, a hedgerow had been planted and boundaries had moved or disappeared, but Atkinson eventually worked out where Constable had stood.  He said, "When I discovered that I had worked out the location where Constable painted this particular masterpiece, I couldn't believe it. All the pieces of the jigsaw finally fitted together."Atkinson used an 1817 map of East Bergholt, where Constable grew up, as a reference point, but found that the view would have changed not long after the painting was completed.  "The foreground didn't fit at all, it was quite unusual as we know Constable painted it in the open air so he would have been standing in the scene. The hedgerow in his work no longer exists and there's another hedgerow that runs across the scene today which wasn't there. When you stand on the road on which he would have stood, and use the oak tree as a reference point, you see the same view. It's great to see where an old master stood – and be inspired by the same view," he said.Suffolk, where Constable painted many of his finest paintings, is often called "Constable country". Most, but not all, of the locations that Constable depicted are known.  The picture is now housed in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Massachusetts.A huge political storm has erupted around Australia after labor leader Kevin Rudd was found to have gone to a strip club during a taxpayer funded trip. This caused many people to ask their country's politicians questions. John Key, leader of New Zealand's National Party, has openly admitted to visiting a strip club after being posed the question by reporters.However, unlike Rudd, Key never visited the club when he was a politician, nor on an official trip, when he went to the two strip clubs. The two trips Key has made was once as a business trip at New York while working the finance industry, and the second for a stag night in New Zealand.Helen Clark, prime minister of New Zealand, refused to comment on the visits by Key and Rudd, but did say she, as a woman, saw it as inappropriate entertainment.Key takes the position, however, that he would never visit a strip club now.Johnny Hart, author of comic strip B.C., and co-author of strip The Wizard of Id, died Saturday, April 7. Hart died at age 76, sitting at his storyboard where he suffered a stroke, according to his wife.In 1958, Hart started B.C. which quickly became syndicated around the world with an estimated readership of 100 million. Hart started The Wizard of Id with Brant Parker in 1964.Oscar-winner Angelina Jolie in a recent interview with the press acknowledged that playing slain journalist Daniel Pearl's wife in the new movie, A Mighty Heart, was a challenge in itself as she has to portray her strength amid the loss of her husband. Jolie said she wants to make the world understand this woman and her family.Dan Futterman portrays Pearl and Jolie plays Mariane Pearl who was kidnapped and murdered in Pakistan in 2002. He was on a research assignment on Islamic militants in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 attacks."We need to tell the story of Daniel Pearl and the reason we are making this film is because it's very important to have a dialogue between the two cultures," Jolie told an Indian daily on Thursday in Mumbai. Jolie arrived in India last month to begin work on filming portions of the movie there. Due to security concerns this movie could not be filmed in Karachi, Pakistan and its venue was shifted to western Indian cities of Pune and Mumbai. This movie is produced by Brad Pitt who is also Jolie's partner.Jolie is most famous for her roles in Girl, Interrupted for which she won an Oscar, and Lara Croft: Tomb Raider, the 2001 blockbuster.Jon Stewart is to return as host of the Academy Awards. It will be the second time he has hosted the awards, having first done it in 2006. The 80th Academy Awards ceremony will be presented at the Kodak Theatre on February 24, 2008.When Stewart last presented the Oscars, he received mixed reviews. Tom Shales called him, "a sad and pale shadow of great hosts gone by." However, Roger Ebert called his performance a "home run". The 2006 awards performed poorly in terms of ratings. It attracted 38.9 million viewers, compared to 39.9 million last year when it was hosted by Ellen DeGeneres and 42.1 million when hosted by Chris Rock in 2005.However, the producer for the Oscars, Gil Cates, said that, "He is smart, quick, funny, and loves movies. What else could one ask for?" Stewart is said to be thrilled to be asked to host the awards again, "Because third time's the charm."Stewart is most famous as host of Comedy Central's The Daily Show.Television presenter and BBC Radio 2 disc jockey Jonathan Ross has announced his departure from the British Broadcasting Corporation. Ross currently presents his own chat show, Friday Night with Jonathan Ross, as well as presenting his own programme and The Film programme on BBC Radio 2. He has decided to leave the corporation when his contract ends in July 2010. The contract was reported to have a value of £18,000,000 over the space of three years, however this has not been confirmed by the BBC.Ross, who has been working with the BBC since 1996, spoke to news reporters outside his house.  "It's probably not a bad time for me to move on — and it's probably not a bad time for the BBC, either," he stated.  "I've got six months left, I'm hoping to make the best shows of my career with them."  This information emerges one day after the announcement came that another BBC talk show host, Graham Norton, had signed a deal for two years with the BBC.  Rumours began to mount in the newspapers that Norton would soon take over Ross' television slot.  Alan Yentob, the BBC's Creative Director, said that "[y]ou don't need to compare Graham with Jonathan Ross.  No decisions have been taken with that slot."  In 2008, Ross was involved in the infamous incident involving Russell Brand and himself leaving obscene messages to actor Andrew Sachs via a voicemail service. Regarding his departure from the BBC, Jonathan said: "Although I have had a wonderful time working for the BBC, and am very proud of the shows I have made while there, over the last two weeks I have decided not to re-negotiate when my current contract comes to an end. While there, I have worked with some of the nicest and most talented people in the industry and had the opportunity to interview some of the biggest stars in the world, and am grateful to the BBC for such a marvellous experience. I would like to make it perfectly clear that no negotiations ever took place and that my decision is not financially motivated. "As I have said before — I would happily have stayed there for any fee they cared to offer, but there were other considerations.  I love making my Friday night talk show, my Saturday morning radio show and the Film Programme, and will miss them all.  Working at the BBC has been a tremendous privilege, and I would like to thank everyone who has watched and listened so loyally over the last 13 years."Jonathan Ross presented his final episode of Friday Night with Jonathan Ross on the BBC after more than nine years. He also finished hosting his programme on BBC Radio 2. Ross announced his departure from the BBC in January 2010, having decided not to renew his contract with the broadcasting organisation.The guests that appeared on Friday Night with Jonathan Ross on Friday were English football player David Beckham, American actor Mickey Rourke and Jackie Chan, an actor from Hong Kong. Ross has stated that he was "ashamed of" few programmes and that "[t]he vast majority are shows I am proud of." He felt "grateful, lucky and honoured" to have been able to work at the BBC. When talking about his programme on BBC Radio 2, during his final pre-recorded three-hour-long edition broadcast yesterday, Jonathan Ross commented: "It has been a tremendous experience for us - obviously I like to think that the place has always been a little livelier while we are around. There were certain periods when it was a little too lively, but it's been a great experience and a learning experience, bizarrely for people of our age." The final song to be played at the end of the show was "Drive-In Saturday", performed by David Bowie.Jonathan Ross is expected to present a new television chat show on commercial British channel ITV at some point in the future. It is believed that Graham Norton will be the replacement for Jonathan Ross as of 2011.Jordan Lloyd has won the eleventh season of the American version of reality TV show Big Brother on Tuesday.Lloyd, 22, from Matthews, North Carolina, was a waitress prior to entering the Big Brother house. In a twist she was in the Popular clique with fellow HouseGuests Braden Bacha and Laura Crosby who were evicted in the first two weeks. During the course of the show, she was very close to Jeff Schroeder from the Athletes clique. On the finale night she won the final Head of Household competition securing her place in the final two.  Lloyd won the grand prize of US$500,000 with five votes from the jury, beating Natalie Martinez's two votes.  Lloyd received the votes of viewing public, Jessie Godderz, Lydia Tavera, Schroeder, and Michele Noonan to win.  Due to Chima Benson's expulsion earlier in the season, the viewing public voted during the final week for who should win the final jury vote.  Executive producer Allison Grodner noted in a post finale interview that while she didn't know the final percentage votes Lloyd was in the 90th percentile in both scenarios she was in.CBS, the channel which has been showing Big Brother in the United States for the last ten years, recently announced the pickup of Big Brother 12 for the summer of 2010. Big Brother 11 has been the only summer show to grow over a previous season this summer and the finale of Big Brother 11 was extended to two hours. At the time of the announcement, Big Brother 11 averaged 7.1 million viewers up from Big Brother 10's 6.6 million viewers.Yesterday, December 1, 2005, the election for the "Greatest Belgian" ("De Grootste Belg") was won by Father Damien  (Joseph De Veuster). Runners up were Dr. Paul Janssen, founder of Janssen Pharmaceutica, and Eddy Merkx, a cyclist.Father Damien is famous for working and living with lepers on Molokai, where he persisted in caring for the outcasts, against directions of church hierarchy. Eventually, Father Damien died from leprosy himself.The Belgian "Greatest National" poll is organized separately by the Flemish and the Walloon regional television stations. Father Damien was elected "Greatest Belgian" ("De Grootste Belg") in the poll organized by the Flemish television. Next week, the Walloon poll will conclude, so Belgium will have two "Greatest Belgians".Australian singer Dannii Minogue has made the decision to depart from the judging panel of The X Factor, a televised singing competition in the United Kingdom. In a statement, she said: "I am so disappointed that I can't be a part of The X Factor this year. I'm going to miss the show and the amazing team who work so incredibly hard on it."Since her first appearance on The X Factor in 2007, Minogue has gone on to mentor two series-winning acts, Leon Jackson and Matt Cardle. When attributing the reason for her departure, which occurred a short time period before the launch of the eighth series of the competition, Minogue stated, "[d]uring discussions for me to return [to The X Factor] it became clear that unfortunately, this year, the X Factor audition dates in the UK clash with the live shows of Australia's Got Talent [on which she is a judge] during June and July. For this reason I am unable to return."According to Metro.co.uk, British musician Tulisa Contostavlos from English group N-Dubz will be employed in the position Minogue was on The X Factor. Various users of social networking website Twitter reacted negatively to this news, the Metro reported.One source close to the programme told Sky News that Contostavlos is "not a reality TV creation, she's created herself" and that "[e]veryone on the show has met her, and they loved her. She's the real deal." He also reported that "[t]he singer from north London also fits 'the right age demographic'".A day after being released to house arrest, Paris Hilton was brought back into court today in handcuffs, and ordered to serve out her sentence in jail.Upon the judge ordering her to serve out the remainder of her full 45-day sentence in jail, Hilton was escorted from the courtroom screaming and crying. "It's not right!" she shouted. "Mom!" she called out to her mother in the gallery.Hilton was ordered to reappear in court as prosecutors and the judge who sentenced her expressed outrage that Sheriff Lee Baca released her from jail. A Los Angeles County spokesman said Hilton was released "due to a medical condition." She was to be allowed to serve out her sentence at her home on King's Road, fitted with an ankle bracelet, under house arrest.But Judge Michael T. Sauer specifically said that Hilton was not to be placed under house arrest, and prosecutors are considering holding Baca in contempt of court."The decision whether or not Ms. Hilton should be released early and placed on electronic monitoring should be made by Judge Sauer, and not the Sheriff's Department," said Chief of the City Attorney's Criminal Branch in Los Angeles, California, Jeffrey Isaacs.A motion to have Hilton return to jail was filed by prosecutors just hours after her release yesterday. The hearing was scheduled to take place at 9:00 a.m. PT.Sheriff's deputies brought Hilton to the courtroom in handcuffs. She wore no make up, her hair was unkempt and she wore a gray sweatshirt over slacks. She cried all during the proceedings, her body shaking, and she would turn around to face her parents in the gallery and mouth the words "I love you."Reports first indicated Hilton would attend the hearing, but then was reported that she would be there by telephone. In the end, a court spokesperson clarified, saying that Hilton had been ordered to appear.Hilton's attorney, Richard Hutton, asked for a hearing in the judge's chambers, in which testimony would be offered about Hilton's medical condition. Sauer did not respond to that suggestion. Her attorneys also argued that it was up to the sheriff's department to run the jail and decide how prisoners were to be housed.Papers documenting Hilton's medical condition were scheduled to be delivered to the court, but never appeared, with Judge Sauer noting the time during the proceedings and saying the papers still hadn't arrived.An angry Judge Rodney S. Melville threatened to issue a bench warrant for the arrest of world famous pop singer Michael Jackson if he failed to appear at the Santa Barbara County Superior Court in California Thursday Jan. 10, 2005.  Jackson is under indictment there on seven counts of lewd and lascivious acts on a child under 14, and two counts of administering an intoxicating agent. Jackson, held briefly under the threat of jail by authorities on Nov. 20, 2003 when charges brought against him were formalized, gained his freedom later that day by posting a $3 million bail.Judge Melville, apparently frustrated with Jackson who had in two earlier instances caused delays in his court room, issued the warrant just 5 minutes after noting the singer’s conspicuous absence at the scheduled 8:30 a.m. proceedings.  Jackson's defense lawyer, Tom Mersereau Jr., advised the judge that Jackson awoke earlier that morning with severe back pain and was under treatment at an area hospital at the time. The judge moved to give the celebrity one hour to appear or face arrest for contempt of court.As word of the warrant threat traveled to the large news presence gathered outside, a media countdown began.  During the countdown, live televised reports recounted how Jackson had arrived for court 20 minutes late on his own arraignment for these charges, only to be met by a stern lecture from Judge Melville for that transgression.  There was also another occasion where Jackson, while recovering from flu symptoms, delayed the trial's jury selection for a week until he was well enough to return. The glaringly clear message sent by the judge was: bad back or not, Jackson was to appear in court! And fast! Only the televised scene of Jackson's expectant defense lawyer Mersereau with his assistant Susan Yu, both busy on cells phones while tensely waiting curbside beside the court house for the Jackson motorcade, seemed to undermine a feeling that Jackson would make it in time to avoid having his bail revoked.As the deadline came and passed without Jackson’s arrival, live reports were busy with speculation on the superstar persona of Michael Jackson then taking on newer aspects of super-bizarre. But Jackson’s flair for tardiness showed itself with an arrival that was a mere 3 minutes after the judge was being forced to make good on his threat. Dressed in a blue blazer over a light weight undershirt, the star's recent departure from the hospital was evident by the pajama bottom pants and open-heeled bedroom slippers he wore into the court room.Jackson had the assistance of his father and a body guard at each side to keep him steady as he gingerly walked into the Santa Maria court house. He listed slightly to the right and kept a fixed, distant face that was surrounded by uncombed strands of his long hair. The summons issued by the judge forced Jackson from his hospital bed to show the world he was not above the law. In private chambers, Judge Melville met with both the prosecution lawyer, Tom Sneddon, and Jackson’s defense lawyer to verify the defendant’s claims of back pain. After re-taking the bench in the court room, the judge announced to the jury they would proceed with the docket as planned.  Mr. Jackson narrowly escaped prison, and the trial would continue where it left off on the previous day with direct testimony from the now 15 year old boy who accuses him.On Sunday, after nine years of touring and recording, Christian pop group JUMP5 performed their last show in Nashville, Tennessee.Playing at Rocketown in downtown Nashville, the performance reunited the group of four with Libby Hodges, who left the group in 2004.Preceded by a VIP meet-and-greet, the show was scheduled to start at 7 p.m. Opening for JUMP5 were pureNRG, Cali, and Jessie Daniels, three artists who were touring with the group on their "Hello & Goodbye Tour".The tour stopped in 30 cities across North America, playing to over 25,000.Group member Brittany Hargest said in press materials, that it's "hard to believe that everything is ending after this show. We've spent our last nine years together doing shows and touring the country, and its all coming to an end.""We have been so blessed to be a part of your lives for so long," she said, thanking their fans for continued support.Created in the era of long-gone acts like N*SYNC, Aaron Carter, and the A*Teens, and when Britney Spears wasn't nightly fodder for talk show hosts, JUMP5 managed to stay active and for the most part together throughout the years. Even nine years in, the song "Shoot the Moon" from their album "Hello & Goodbye" was able to chart on Radio Disney, one of the key indicators of success in the youth-targeted pop market.The band has recently released an online-only holiday album, Christmas Like This, which is available on iTunes and Rhapsody.Over their nine years, siblings Brandon and Brittany Hargest, along with childhood friends Lesley Moore, Chris Fedun and Libby Hodges sold over 1.4 million albums, and touring with Radio Disney.Soundtracks for kids movies and TV shows included them with some regularity. Jump5 were heard in The Lizzie McGuire Movie, Sleepover, Spy Kids, Ella Enchanted, Ice Princess, and Brother Bear. Best Picture-nominee Beauty and the Beast included one of their tracks on its DVD release. MTV's Newport Harbor, Disney Channel's Kim Possible and the Lilo & Stitch: The Series all featured their songs. Once the group even performed for United States President Bush at the White House.Jørn Utzon, the Danish architect who designed the Sydney Opera House, has died at the age of 90. Mr Utzon died from a heart attack in his sleep at his home in Copenhagen."He had not been doing well these past few days, since Thursday. He had been undergoing a series of operations recently," Mr Utzon's son, Kim, told the Associated Press.The first design for the Sydney Opera House was created by Utzon in 1957. Mr Utzon left Australia and returned to Denmark in 1966 due to disputes with the NSW government over cost blowouts and design differences. The building was finished 1973. Utzon never returned to Australia to see his building completed.Relations between New South Wales and Utzon improved in the late 1990s and in 1999 the Sydney Opera House Trust asked for Mr Utzon to advise on changing the building's interior to match his original design.Mr Utzon was awarded the Pritzker prize for architecture in 2003. The selectors said the Opera House was one of the most iconic buildings of the 20th century saying that Utzon's design "proves that the marvellous and seemingly impossible in architecture can be achieved".Kim Williams, chairman of the Opera House Trust, said the building would dim the lights on its sails on Sunday as a sign of respect. Mr Williams said he had met Mr Utzon at his home in Denmark recently, where they shared emotions and tears."We spoke for 40 minutes and when we left, he embraced me and he whispered in my ear 'no tears'," he said."He hasn't been able to come back himself, but through his son he has been keeping up with all the developments here at the Opera House, really on a daily basis."Premier of NSW Nathan Rees said NSW was "deeply saddened" by the death of Mr Utzon, who gave Australia a "masterpiece" which was now UNESCO World-Heritage listed.Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said Mr Utzon had left an impressive legacy."Joern Utzon was a visionary architect whose legacy includes one of the world's most spectacular and inspiring buildings, the Sydney Opera House," said the Prime Minister in a statement."Standing proudly on the edge of Sydney Harbour, the Opera House is one of the most internationally recognised symbols of our nation."Liverpool-based football club Liverpool F.C. (LFC) appointed German Jürgen Klopp as the club's new manager. Klopp signed a three-year contract with LFC for GBP £15 million, with annual earnings of £5 million and an increment to £7 million if the club wins the Premier League or if the club qualifies for the UEFA Champions League.Klopp's predecessor, Brendan Rodgers, was fired on Sunday after three-and-half-years of service at Anfield. Liverpool were at 10th position in the League table and drew 1–1 against local rivals Everton.Klopp previously served as the manager at German football club Borussia Dortmund (BVB) and won the German Bundesliga with them twice. Klopp held the position of Dortmund manager until May 2015, and his last match was against Wolfsburg in the DFB Pokal cup.This signing made Klopp the highest-paid manager in Liverpool history. His first match in the Premier League will be against Tottenham Hotspur on October 17. Liverpool have only had four wins out of eleven league games this season.In response to this signing, Borussia Dortmund tweeted "We heard the news today, oh boy! All the best at the Kop, Jürgen Klopp!"On Monday, South Korea's TOP Media entertainment management company announced Seo Minwoo, lead singer of K-pop band 100%, had died at his home in South Korean capital Seoul on Sunday; reportedly, in the evening, local time. In the official statement, the agency said, "The deceased was found to have a cardiac arrest in his home in Gangnam, Seoul. 119 [helpline number] paramedics were dispatched, but he was found to have died." ((ko))Korean language: ‍고인은 서울 강남 자택에서 심정지 상태로 발견 119구급대가 출동하였으나 사망판정을 받았습니다.Seo was 33 years old.  He made his acting debut more than a decade ago, in 2006. He appeared in Korean television series Sharp 3. A year later, Seo appeared in The King and I. In 2012, Seo took up singing, and became the lead singer of 100%. In 2014, Seo rendered compulsory military service. He featured in another television drama in 2016 called Twenty thousand won to Pyongyang."The funeral will be held quietly according to the will of the family" ((ko))Korean language: ‍장례는 유가족의 뜻에 따라 조용히 치를 예정입니다, TOP media's announcement read. The boy band had concerts scheduled for April 21 and April 30 in Japan.Miss Gibraltar Kaiane Aldorino has won the Miss World competition of 2009, beating out the projected winner Miss Puerto Rico Mayra Matos.  The first runner-up was Miss Mexico, Perla Beltran Acosta.  During her acceptance speech Aldorino said “I just have no words to explain how I feel! I am just so, so happy!"  In Gibraltar she is an administrative clerk with 4 years experience.When asked what she will do after the competition, she said to the Associated Press "I will try to do the best that I can now that I have opportunity and advantage."There has been controversy in the host city of Johannesburg, South Africa, where the competition was estimated to cost the city R90 million (€8m, US$12m).  In response to criticism pageant owner Julia Morley said "Charity work is integral to the Miss World ethos and part of the brief to contenders in each country is that they volunteer their time or fundraise for charity."Fred Phelps, the founder of the vehemently anti-gay Westboro Baptist Church in Topeka, Kansas, died yesterday aged 84. The church he founded in 1955 became infamous for leading pickets at the funerals of US soldiers, as well as the funeral of Matthew Shepard, a young gay man killed in a homophobic attack in 1998.At funeral pickets and other protests, Phelps and other members of his church held brightly coloured signs with messages including 'God Hates Fags', 'Thank God for 9/11' and 'Thank God for Dead Soldiers'. The picketing of military funerals stems from the postion that God is punishing the United States for its acceptance of homosexuality. Military funerals have not been the only sites of Westboro's protests: the funeral of film critic Roger Ebert and concerts by pop acts Lady Gaga and One Direction — who the church described as "crotch-grabbing little perverts" — have also been targets of Westboro's protests. The Church has sued a great number of local authorities in the United States who attempted to block their demonstrations and the settlements from their First Amendment cases helped fund their activities. In 2011, the Church won a case at the US Supreme Court which upheld their right to demonstrate at funerals.Other countries were not so keen: Fred Phelps and his daughter Shirley Phelps-Roper were banned from entering the United Kingdom in order to take part in a planned protest against The Laramie Project, a play about the death of Matthew Shephard. The UK Border Agency stated the Phelpses were not welcome because of their actions "inciting hatred against a number of communities". The Church has seen a number of widely-reported defections including Megan Phelps-Roper, who used to run Westboro's social media operation before publicly leaving the congregation and publishing an apology on the Internet.Before Phelps's death, he was excommunicated from the Church — whose members are primarily drawn from his family. Nathan Phelps, Fred Phelps's son, posted on Facebook last week announcing his father's hospitalisation and illness: "I’ve learned that my father, Fred Phelps, Sr., pastor of the ‘God Hates Fags’ Westboro Baptist Church, was ex-communicated from the ‘church’ back in August of 2013. He is now on the edge of death at Midland Hospice house in Topeka, Kansas. I’m not sure how I feel about this. Terribly ironic that his devotion to his god ends this way. Destroyed by the monster he made."Nathan Phelps continued: "I feel sad for all the hurt he’s caused so many. I feel sad for those who will lose the grandfather and father they loved. And I’m bitterly angry that my family is blocking the family members who left from seeing him, and saying their good-byes."A diverse group of approximately 25 people gathered at the Johnson County Library on Monday to participate in reference librarian Scott Vieira’s class, Wikiwhatia? Wikipedia. Scott opened the session by sharing a disparaging quote from Robert McHenry (former editor-in-chief of Encyclopedia Britannica) comparing Wikipedia to a public restroom. He then shared a quote from Andrew Keen, author of The Cult of the Amateur, in which he stated Wikipedia is the blind leading the blind. Scott shared Wikipedia usage data from a 2007 Pew Internet study showing 36% of adults have consulted Wikipedia and that that Wikipedia receives 10,000-30,000 searches per second. Scott also pointed out that Wikipedia now has over two million articles in English alone (over nine million articles in 250 languages).  So there is a discrepancy here, lots of critics and lots of use.Scott then shared some historical information in order to provide a context for understanding Wikipedia. This included some important names and dates in the history of encyclopedias… including Pliny the Elder (23-79 C.E.) who published 37 Volumes of Natural History, and Joachim Sterck van Ringelbergh (c. 1499-1556) who first used the term encyclopedia, and then d’Alembert and Diderot who published 17 volumes of their French Encyclopedia from 1751-1765. Encyclopedia Britannica was first published in Scotland in serial format 1768-1771.British actress Kara Tointon and her Russian dance partner Artem Chigvintsev have become the winners of the latest series of the BBC Television programme Strictly Come Dancing. The pair won the dancing show on Saturday, leaving British television presenter Matt Baker and his Kazakhstani dance partner Aliona Vilani in second place. Bookmakers had considered this dancing duo to be the most likely to win the series. Meanwhile, Australian actress Pamela Stephenson finished in third place along with her British dance partner, James Jordan. It was ultimately a public vote that determined the results.Upon winning, Tointon proclaimed: "It's just the most special thing that I've ever achieved." In reference to Chigvintsev, she exclaimed: "I want to thank this man, he's been absolutely wonderful." Talking about the experience, she commented: "I've met the most fantastic friends in my life and this has been the most special experience for me." Chigvintsev then declared to Tointon: "You're amazing." Baker described the dancing pair as "worthy winners, without any doubt", saying: "If I was at home I'd be voting for you, too."Earlier in the final programme, Tointon and Chigvintsev had danced to the tune of Cry Me a River; the dance received the acclaim of the judges. "I would kill to be able to dance like that, I thought it was amazing," Craig Revel Horwood exclaimed. Alesha Dixon commented: "I'm quite sad that that is the last dance we are going to see you do". In reference to the pair, she added: "Together you are first class." Bruno Tonioli remarked: "You danced to a level that we hardly ever see here. Whatever happens, this was incredible."Bruno Tonioli described Matt Baker as "very dashing and elegant". Len Goodman believed that he was "an excellent ballroom dancer". At one point, Palema Stephenson received a perfect score of 40 from the four judges for her Viennese Waltz. Tonioli branded the dance as "simply brilliant". Revel Horwood used the word "remarkable" to describe that performance.The German composer Karlheinz Stockhausen, a pioneer of electronic music among major contemporary musicians, died on December 5. The German foundation, named in his honor, announced today, Stockhausen passed away in his Kürten home in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.A prolific composer, he wrote more than 300 works during his career, establishing himself as a pioneer of electronic music, as well as a representative of serialism. Studie I, dated 1953, is considered one of the first electronic music works ever produced. Born in Mödrath, Germany, in 1927, he was the son of a mother from a wealthy family and a father who was a teacher. He grew up in Altenberg, where he started taking piano lessons. He studied piano and music pedagogy at the Musikhochschule in Cologne. It was at University of Cologne, he later studied musicology, philosophy and Germanics.He was influenced by musicians such as Oliver Messiaen, Edgard Varèse, and Anton Webern, but also by painters such as Piet Mondrian and Paul Klee. Stockhausen's works often departed from usual music styles.During his life as a musician, Stockhausen explored most of the genres and styles. Starting in punctualism and concrete music early in his career, during the 1950s, he proceeded to research the electronic music area, which at the time was in an embryonic state. In the 1960s, he composed works of choral music, putting side-by-side the chorus and the use of electronic facilities. In the 1970s, he dedicated himself to serialism. Between 1977 and 2003, he committed himself to one of his most ambitious projects: a cycle of thematic works named Licht: Die sieben Tage der Woche (Light: the Seven Days of the Week).Various artists have stated that they were influenced by Stokhausen, including artists as varied as Frank Zappa, Björk, Miles Davis, as well as Roger Waters and Rick Wright—two of the Pink Floyd members. The Beatles included a portrait of Stockhausen among the people pictured on the cover of their album Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. Italian singer/songwriter Franco Battiato dedicated Sulle corde di Aries to the composer. While being a controversial artist, Stockhausen became a focus of polemics after he stated that the September 11, 2001 attacks were "works of art". He later explained the meaning of his statements, and said that they had been, according to him, out-of-context and misquoted.Katharine "Kerry" Close, a 13-year-old 8th-grader from Asbury Park, New Jersey, spelled "ursprache", a word for the ancestor of a language or language group, to win the 79th annual Scripps National Spelling Bee on Thursday night. Close beat out 274 other contestants from 9 to 15 years old. This was Close's last year of eligibility; she was one of only two contestants this year to be in her fifth year at the national competition. She finished seventh in 2005, having gotten a better ranking every year she's competed.This is the Bee's first appearance on network television, with the finals airing on ABC; earlier rounds were televised in the afternoon on ESPN. Close, who enjoys running, music, reading, and her puppy, is the first New Jersey resident ever to win the competition, which she prepared for up to two hours each day. Saryn Hooks, 14, was nearly eliminated in the eighth round, with "hechsher", a symbol indicating that a food has been certified kosher. The judges mistakenly had the word down as "hechscher"; after being removed, she was reinstated in the next round after the judges received the correction. Hooks, who spent six months reading the entire dictionary to prepare, came back with confidence and finished in third place, missing "icteritious" in round twelve. This is the first time the judges have made such a visible error in the televised broadcast.Kendra Yoshinaga, 12, of Thousand Oaks, California, a favorite for the finals, was knocked out in the seventh round just before the ABC broadcast began by "cointise", a scarf worn on a lady's headdress. Yoshinaga said that this third national bee she's competed in felt "a lot more rigid" than the previous two. This year's schedule was rearranged for the ABC news broadcast: previous championships have been held earlier in the day. The spellers have all been given more media attention; for this reason Yoshinaga is perhaps one of the few who didn't want to win, claiming that it would be too much. She has already received her share of attention, as co-author of The Spelling Bee And Me: A Real-Life Adventure In Learning, a children's book about her experiences."People I don't know very well seem to make a big deal about it, but my really close friends know that it's not a really huge part of my life," she says, of her relative fame. Keenly interested in politics and social issues, Yoshinaga spent a large portion of her last two trips sightseeing in Washington, but this trip, she says, has been more focused on studying."My mom sometimes finds words for me from books and magazines," says the homeschooler, who studied over 30,000 words in the week preceding the national bee. Paige Kimble, bee coordinator, wouldn't have been surprised to see her break into the top ten.Another favorite eliminated earlier on in the competition was Samir Patel, who tied for second in last year's 19-round marathon and placed third in 2003. Patel misspelled "eremacausis" in round 7, joining Yoshinaga and 6 others in a tie for 14th place. The studious 12-year-old has one more chance at the national finals; Yoshinaga has two, as students may compete from their fourth through eighth grade years.Cody Boisclair, a 23-year-old graduate student at the University of Georgia, misses the competition. He competed in the 1997 and 1998 finals, placing fourth in his second try. The Bee has changed since he began participating, becoming more international, and with increased media attention putting more pressure on spellers. Though many critics claim that the rote memorization and drilling of spelling bees is not a particularly beneficial activity, Boisclair believes his experience in the bee helped his knowledge of language rather than serving as a simple display of memory."I was one of those people who tried to dissect the word into its component parts, to find similarities to other words that I was familiar with," says Boisclair, who began reading at the age of two. "Although I did do some drilling, I tried to find relationships to help me remember words, and even tried to analyze the words I was studying as I studied them." His analysis skills led him not to a career in lexicography or linguistics but rather to graduate study in computer science.Boisclair, who spent the evening watching the Bee on television while in a chat room with several other former national finalists, looks back on the competition as one of the highlights of his school years. "I think the best thing about it was a sense of camaraderie—for once, I really felt like I fit in somewhere. I was with people my age who were, by and large, 'on the same wavelength'." Also, Jasmine Kaneshiro, 14, from Honolulu, Hawaii, was not a favorite, having done quite badly last year, did better. She moved up from 72nd place in the 2005 bee to 45th place.  It was her second year.  "I'm pleased with my performance this year," Kaneshiro said.On Friday Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a decree to change the country's official script for the Kazakh language from Cyrillic script to Latin-based script. The president announced signing the decree on his official website.Per the decree, "a gradual transition of the Kazakh alphabet to the Latin-based script" is expected through 2025. Kazakh is currently written in a derived version of Cyrillic script, with their alphabet consisting of 42 characters, of which 33 characters which can be found in the Russian language. The other nine characters are for sounds used in Kazakh. Asserting modernisation, the ministry of foreign affairs said, "[Latin] is used by approximately 70 percent of all countries, making it an essential part of communicating across the globe, especially in terms of technology, business, science and education". The language has been written in Cyrillic script for about 77 years, after it replaced Latin script in 1940, Back then, the modern-day Kazakhstan was part of the Soviet Union, and Latin script was used for Kazakh since 1929. Before that, Kazakh was written in Arabic.Countries like Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, which also became independent after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, had switched from Cyrillic characters to Latin characters after gaining independence. In April, Nursultan Nazarbayev, who has been in power since the Soviet collapse in 1991, said, "By the end of 2017, after consultation with academics and representatives of the public, a single standard for the new Kazakh alphabet and script should be developed". He called using Cyrillic script "political".Cyrillic script is used to write the Russian language, the second official language of Kazakhstan. Russians form a large ethnic group in the country, and the 2009 census indicated about 85% of the Kazakh population were Russian-fluent, while about 62 percent of the population could speak and write in Kazakh fluently.New Zealand actress and Whale Rider (2002) star Keisha Castle-Hughes will star as The Blessed Virgin Mary in the upcoming New Line Cinema film, Nativity. Castle-Hughes, 15, who is of Australian and Maori descent, was the youngest actress to be nominated for a best-actress Academy Award when she was recognized for her role in Whale Rider.Catherine Hardwicke, who is best known for Three Kings (1999), will direct.Nativity looks at the life of the biblical couple Mary and Joseph prior to the birth of Jesus, showing how their faith, love and beliefs are tested. The script incorporates the couple's journey from Nazereth to Bethlehem, and includes figures such as King Herod and the three astrologers (a.k.a. the Three Kings or the Three Wise Men).Filming is scheduled to begin in May and will include locations in Morroco and Italy. The studio aims for a December 2006 release.According to a recent interview, Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards is said to have snorted his late father's ashes mixed with cocaine.In an interview with the NME magazine he is quoted as saying "The strangest thing I've tried to snort? My father. I snorted my father. He was cremated and I couldn't resist grinding him up with a little bit of blow. My dad wouldn't have cared, he didn't give a shit. It went down pretty well, and I'm still alive. He went down pretty well."Despite the interview, Richards denies he said anything like that and that he ever used cocaine."I wouldn't take cocaine at this point in my life unless I wished to commit suicide. The truth of the matter is that I planted a sturdy English Oak. I took the lid off the box of ashes [of his father] and he is now growing oak trees and would love me for it!," said Richards in a statement also adding that the interview was "lost in the usual slanting."Bert, who had been the father of Richards, died when he was 84, back in 2002.Richard's manager later told the NME that the remarks had been made "in jest", and should not be taken seriously.The Kennedy Center announced that its 30th presentation of the Kennedy Center Honors would go to pianist Leon Fleisher, comedian Steve Martin, singer Diana Ross, director Martin Scorsese and musician Brian Wilson. The Center was opened to the public in 1971 and was envisioned as part of the National Cultural Center Act, which mandated that the independent, privately-funded institution would present a wide variety of both classical and contemporary performances, commission the creation of new artistic works, and undertake a variety of educational missions to increase awareness of the arts.  In a statement, Kennedy Center Chairman Stephen A. Schwarzman said that "with their extraordinary talent, creativity and perseverance, the five 2007 honorees have transformed the way we, as Americans, see, hear and feel the performing arts."Fleisher, 79, a member of the Peabody Institute's music faculty, is a pianist who lost use of his right hand in 1965 due to a neurological condition.  He became an accomplished musician and conductor through the use of his left hand.  At 67, he regained the use of his right hand.  With the advent of Botox therapy, he was once more able to undertake two-hand performances in 2004, his first in four decades.  "I'm very gratified by the fact that it's an apolitical honor," Fleisher said. "It is given by colleagues and professional people who are aware of what [an artist] has done, so it really is apolitical -- and that much more of an honor."Martin, 62, a comedian who has written books and essays in addition to his acting and stand-up comedy career, rose to fame during his work on the American television program Saturday Night Live in the 1970's.  Schwarzman praised his work as that of a "renaissance comic whose talents wipe out the boundaries between artistic disciplines."  Martin responded to the honor saying, "I am grateful to the Kennedy Center for finally alleviating in me years of covetousness and trophy envy."  Ross, 63, was a product of Detroit's Brewster-Douglass Projects when as a teeager she and friends Mary Wilson and Florence Ballardis formed The Supremes, a ground-breaking Motown act. She portrayed singer Billie Holiday in the 1972 film Lady Sings the Blues, which earned her an Oscar nomination and a Golden Globe award.  "Diana Ross' singular, instantly recognizable voice has spread romance and joy throughout the world," said Schwarzman.  Ross said she was "taken aback. It is a huge, huge honor and I am excited to be in this class of people." Scorsese, 64, is one of the most accomplished directors the United States ever produced, whose work includes Mean Streets, Taxi Driver, GoodFellas, Cape Fear, The Last Temptation of Christ and The Departed, for which he won a 2006 Academy Award for Best Director after being nominated eight times.  Scorsese said, "I'm very honored to be receiving this recognition from the Kennedy Center and proud to be joining the company of the very distinguished individuals who have received this honor in years past."Wilson, 65, along with his brothers Dennis and Carl, formed the Beach Boys in 1961.  They had a series of hits that included "Surfin' U.S.A." and "Wouldn't It Be Nice."  Their 1966 album Pet Sounds is considered one of the most influential recordings in American music.  "This is something so unexpected and I feel extremely fortunate to be in the company of such great artists," said Wilson, who is currently on tour.The Kennedy Center's board of trustees is responsible for selecting honorees for "lifetime contributions to American culture through the performing arts."  Previous honorees, including Elton John and Steven Spielberg, also submitted recommendations.  A wide variety of people were under consideration, including Emanuel Ax, Evgeny Kissin, Renee Fleming, Laurence Fishburne, Francis Ford Coppola, Melissa Etheridge and Kenny Chesney.President Bush and first lady Laura Bush will attend the center's presentation at its opera house on December 2, 2007, which will broadcast on December 26 on CBS.Kevin DuBrow, lead singer of American heavy metal band Quiet Riot, was found dead at his home in Las Vegas, Drummer Frankie Banali confirmed. He was 52. The cause is not yet known. He is survived by his wife Andrea Barber.Born on October 29, 1955, he recorded songs with Quiet Riot including "Cum On Feel The Noize" and "Bang Your Head (Metal Health)". In 2004, DuBrow recorded a collection of cover versions for his solo album, In for the Kill.Today the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) announced that Kevin Pietersen MBE has been chosen to be the new England Cricket captain. "I'm very thrilled and excited to have been given the opportunity to captain England," Pietersen told the BBC. He said that he would approach his captaincy like he approached his batting.Michael Vaughan, Pietersen's predecessor, resigned Sunday in what the BBC has described as a "shock." During the news conference, the new captain paid tribute to his predecessor and said that the last few days had been an emotional time.Kids will have to look elsewhere for educational entertainment, after the European Commission received complaints that the British Broadcasting Corporation's website was "unfair competition" to the commercial online games market.The site, called BBC jam, will be suspended on March 20, 2007, pending review, per the BBC Trust.BBC jam offers educationally-oriented games aimed at 5 to 16-year-olds, created with an operating budget of £150 million (US$290 million) over five years, US$85 million of which allocated to independent content producers. The government funded service is formally requesting proposals on how it should promote education and learning digitally, without being "non-compliant".NUT Cymru, a Welsh teachers' union, is worried about the closure.Both NUT Cymru and the Welsh Assembly Goverment have questioned the extent to which commercial firms would step in and fulfill the terms of the Welsh Language Act 1993.Lunar Jim, the star of an stop-motion animated series for preschooler, will be touring Canadian malls this fall. Produced by Alliance Atlantis, the tour will run from September 9 to October 14.The tour will feature part of Jim's lunar village, an inflated replica of his home on Moona Luna. Also at the events will be a colouring activity, an area to play with the recently launched Fisher-Price toys, and have their photo taken with a costumed character version of Jim, and cut-out characters of the rest of the cast.The tour coincides with the launch of Lunar Jim toys by  this month. Canadians can watch the series on CBC and Société Radio-Canada (SRC), the French version of CBC.Coquitlam Centre (Coquitlam, British Columbia): September 9 - 9:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.Landsdowne Centre (Richmond, British Columbia): September 10 - 11 a.m. - 6 p.m.Southcentre (Calgary, Alberta): September 16 - 9 a.m. - 8 p.m.West Edmonton Mall (Edmonton, Alberta): September 17 - 11 a.m. - 6 p.m.Polo Park Shopping Centre (Winnipeg, Manitoba): September 23 - 10 a.m. - 6 p.m.Northgate Shopping Centre (Winnipeg, Manitoba): September 24 - 12 p.m. - 5 p.m.Square One (Mississauga, Ontario): September 30 - 9:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.Upper Canada Mall (Newmarket, Ontario): October 1 - 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.Centre Mall (Hamilton, Ontario): October 7 - 9:30 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.Masonville Mall (London, Ontario): October 8 - 12 p.m. - 5 p.m.Mic Mac Mall (Halifax, Nova Scotia): October 14 - 9:30 a.m. - 9:30 p.m.Ferrari driver Kimi Räikkönen won the FIA Formula One 2008 Petronas Malaysian Grand Prix at Sepang International Circuit, Sepang, Selangor, Malaysia. Both Ferrari drivers, started from the front row of the grid, confidently facing up to their McLaren rivals, but the pole-sitter Felipe Massa first lost his place to Kimi and then went out because of a driving error.Robert Kubica from BMW Sauber placed second, trailing Räikkönen by a considerable margin.McLaren Mercedes drivers took the second row in qualification, but Heikki Kovalainen and Lewis Hamilton were penalized five places yesterday for impeding Nick Heidfeld (BMW Sauber) and Fernando Alonso (Renault).Kovalainen regained his lost places and finished on the last step of the podium, third. Toyota driver Jarno Trulli did his best to hold Hamilton behind and finished fourth.Heidfeld comfortably finished six. Alonso pushed hard on Mark Webber (Red Bull-Renault) but was unable to pass him and closed the top eight. David Coulthard, the cause of the Friday investigation by FIA stewards of RBR suspension failure, finished after Alonso. Jenson Button won the tenth place for Honda. Rookie driver Nelson Piquet Jr. had a first time finish in 11th place for Renault.Giancarlo Fisichella showed progress with Force India team, beating the second Honda of Rubens Barrichello, both Williams', and Super Aguri.Ferrari driver Kimi Räikkönen won the FIA Formula One 2008 Gran Premio de España Telefónica at Circuit de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain. Both Ferrari drivers were on the podium, with Ferrari's Felipe Massa finishing right after his teammate.Fernando Alonso's Renault couldn't maintain the high pace. Having started from second place after Räikkönen, the car's engine failed midway through the race.McLaren Mercedes drivers took the third row in qualification, but Heikki Kovalainen suffered a full speed crash into a wall of tyres during the race. The driver was evacuated to the hospital and is reported to be 'in stable condition'.His teammate Lewis Hamilton gained third place after the two Ferraris, having qualified in fifth place.Robert Kubica earned 5 points for BMW Sauber finishing immediately after Hamilton.The rest of the cars to finish did so more than 30 seconds after Räikkönen.American actor David Carradine was today found dead in a hotel room in Bangkok, Thailand. The 72-year-old actor had been in Thailand for production of his latest film, Stretch.According to Bangkok police, the star of 1970's cult TV series Kung Fu was found half-naked in a wardrobe, a cord around his neck and body; the discovery was made by a hotel maid. One of Thailand's daily papers, The Nation, reports that police state there was no evidence of an intruder, positing that the actor had hanged himself.Carradine's biggest recent success was his appearance in Quentin Tarrantino's movie, Kill Bill. In the 2003 film he played the title character Bill. His other considerable body of work in the entertainment business included around 100 other film appearances and nominations for four Golden Globe Awards.His personal manager, Chuck Binder, told the press the news was "shocking and sad". He described the actor behind the iconic Caine character as, "...full of life, always wanting to work... a great person."Carradine leaves behind wife Annie Bierman and three children, two of which have followed the family tradition and become actresses.Yesterday, La La Land, directed by Damien Chazelle, received a record-equalling fourteen Academy Awards nomination, tied with 1950s movie All About Eve and 1990's Titanic. Mel Gibson's HackSaw Ridge based on true story bagged six nominations.The movie, featuring Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone, received nominations in all major categories. Gosling and Stone received nominations for Best Actor and Actress respectively. The other nominations include Best Picture, Director, Cinematography, Costume Design, Film-editing, Original Score, Production Design, Sound Editing, Sound Mixing and Original Screenplay. Two songs from the movie, Audition (The Fools Who Dream) and City of Stars, received nominations for best original song. Lionsgate studio received 26 nominations — more than any other studio.Andrew Garfield, who previously starred in The Amazing Spider-Man along with Emma Stone, competes with Gosling for his role in Hacksaw Ridge. Based on the true story of US combat medic Desmond Doss, the movie has received six nominations including Best Picture, Actor in Leading Role, Best Director, Film Editing, Sound Editing and Sound Mixing — La La Land also receiving nominations in these categories. Lion and Manchester by the Sea also received six nominations.Author J.K. Rowling's screenwriting début Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them starring Eddie Redmayne received two nominations for costume design and production design. Redmayne won the award for best actor two years ago for playing Stephen Hawking in The Theory of Everything and was nominated last year for The Danish Girl.This year, six black actors received nominations setting a new record. The hashtag #OscarsSoWhite was mentioned lot of times on Twitter as no non-white received nominations for the past two years. April Reign, creator of the hashtag, said "Everyone is saying the Oscars are more diverse this year. No they're not. They're blacker, but where are the Latinx movies, the LGBTQIA movies? The Asian American/Pacific Islander community has had a worse year. We can't forget just because we have black nominees this year." Bradford Young, cinematographer of Arrival, is the first African-American to be nominated and Joi McMillon – editor of Moonlight – is the first non-white woman to receive nomination. Mahershala Ali, Naomie Harris, Viola Davis, Dev Patel, and Octavia Spencer are the non-white people who are nominated for their supporting roles.Disney's Zootopia and Moana received nominations for Best Animated Feature film. Pixar's Finding Dory did not receive this nomination. Last year, Pixar's The Good Dinosaur also missed the nomination but Pixar's Inside Out, directed by Pete Docter, won the award.Manchester by the Sea's nomination made the e-commerce website Amazon.com the first movie streaming company to earn a nomination for the Best Picture category. Arrival bagged eight nominations. Florence Foster Jenkins starring Meryl Streep nominated for Best Actress earned her 20th career Oscars nomination.The award ceremony is to be held on February 26 to be hosted by Jimmy Kimmel.Singer and song writer Lady Gaga has warned her fans attending concerts about "hateful" protests that are set to take place during a concert she will be having tonight in St. Louis, Missouri. The Westboro Baptist Church will be protesting outside the venue during her concert. Gaga warned of these protests on her Twitter page."At the risk of drawing attention to a hateful organization, I would like to make my little monster fan [sic] aware of a protest being held outside the Monsterball in St.Louis tonight. Although we have had protesters before, as well as fundamentalists at the show this group of protesters are hate criminals and preach using lude [sic] and violent language and imagery that I wish I [could] protect you all from."The Church, based in Topeka, Kansas and not affiliated with any Baptist organization, had planned to protest at Gaga's prior concerts held in St. Louis. The most recent protest was scheduled in January and was later canceled prior to the concert. According to Shirley Phelps-Roper, a spokesperson for the church, "[God] hates homosexuals and God hates fags [and] God hates whore Gaga," which is why the group plans a protest at tonight's concert."So when she gets up there and tries to hook God with that thing He calls an abomination; if you love what God hates, then God hates you," said Phelps-Roper in January. According to the church's website, the protest begins at 7:10 p.m. and lasts until 8:00 p.m.. "Now what type of wicked hypocrites would we be if we did not warn this little false prophetess and all of her over-indulged sycophants that they are each one, individually heading straight to hell in a gender-confused, self-loathing, tone-deaf hand basket and that a gift from the God they hate? So, we made a couple of songs just for this event," said their website.Gaga tells her fans to not listen to the group. "My request to all little monsters and public authority is to pay these hate criminals no mind. Do not interact with them, or try to fight. Do not respond to any of their provocation. Don't waste your words, or feelings, no matter what you hear or see. You are more fortunate and blessed than they are, and in your heart just pray for them. Be inspired to ignore their ignorant message, and feel gratitude in your heart that you are not burdened or addicted to hate, as they are."The Church plans two other protests at her concerts in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma on July 20 and Kansas City, Missouri on August 3.Randy Blythe, vocalist of US metal band Lamb of God, has been arrested upon arrival in Prague, Czech Republic. Blythe is suspected of manslaughter after a fan died during the band's last visit, in Prague in 2010.A police spokesperson confirmed Blythe was arrested on Wednesday and a court was due to rule today on continued detention for the singer, who hails from Richmond, Virginia. The rest of the band has returned to Virginia after cancelling Thursday's Prague gig.It is unclear if Blythe is to be, or has been, charged with inflicting bodily harm resulting in death. Details about the incident were sketchy. Initial reports indicated a fight had broken out, but the band's management denied this. A statement painted the following picture: "This incident deals with a fan that three times during a concert jumped the barricade and rushed Randy during the performance. It is alleged that the third time, security was not able to reach him and that Randy pushed him back into the audience where supposedly he fell and hit his head."Local media published statements from a witness and friend of the deceased, who said the dead fan was sober and drug-free, and landed on his head. There is fan footage of the show, but it is not known if any footage captures the actual incident. The fan died after weeks in a coma.The band has started the hashtag #FreeRandyBlythe on Twitter to establish grassroots support. Support has also come from musicians including Cristina Scabbia of Lacuna Coil, Sebastian Bach of Skid Row, and Oderus Urungus of fellow Richmond rockers GWAR,  who said "This whole thing reeks" on Twitter."All I can say is that I can’t recall that particular show let alone a fan being beaten on the stage" said Chris Adler, Lamb of God's drummer. "I think I would’ve noticed something like that considering the Dime thing" he added, a reference to the death of Pantera guitarist Dimebag Darrell, who was shot on-stage by a fan in 2004. "All we try to do is entertain; the fans are why we’re here. We would never try and harm anyone." Adler also offered his sympathies to the dead fan's relatives.A conviction would see Blythe facing a maximum sentence of ten years in prison.Lance Armstrong, seven-time Tour de France champion and partner of singer Sheryl Crow, has criticized Tour director Jean-Marie LeBlanc for his comments that next year's race will be more exciting without him. LeBlanc said Thursday, "It is a change of era. A period of long domination is over. The path is open. It is an exciting time."On Saturday night, Armstrong hosted NBC's satirical TV show Saturday Night Live, making light of the allegations.  During the opening of the show, Armstrong said: "The last time I did something too good, the French started testing my urine every 15 minutes!" Armstrong's Fiancee, Sheryl Crow, also appeared on the show.The Taipei City Lantern Festival  was off to a bright start on Saturday Night as hundreds of thousands of people crowded onto the Chiang Kai Shek Memorial near downtown Taipei to witness city mayor Hau Lung-bin and other dignitaries ceremoniously flip the switch to light hundreds of colorful lantern scenes in and around the 240,000 square meter memorial park.The centerpiece of this rock concert-like performance is a 15 meter high rotating pig equipped with a fog machine, laser light show and theme music.The theme of this years lantern festival revolves around the 12 year Chinese zodiac cycles year of the pig.  Its round shape symbolizes wealth and good fortune and is believed to bring good luck.Started in 1990, the Taipei lantern festival continues a 2000 year old tradition of light related festivals marking the end of the Chinese New Year celebrations.  This particular event grows in popularity every year.  Last Year over 4 million visitors attended the event and this year the city expects about 6 million visitors according to the event website.Colorful lantern scenes not only fill the central square but also the surrounding 2 km circumference of the memorial.  Each section has a theme.  One side of the memorial is scenes made by student groups while other areas represent the counties of Taiwan.  There is even a section of lanterns sponsored by foreign countries.  The Malaysia Tourism board was quite prominent at the main entrance to the grounds.  As with all new year celebrations in Taiwan, the lantern festival is crowded. People flock to see the lantern scenes and enjoy the festival atmosphere as they carry lanterns, given away by the city and bought from street vendors at the event. The many light toys such a swords, devil ears, and lanterns turn the milling crowd into a unique light show that can be observed by climbing the steps of the 70 meter memorial hall on the grounds.Local public transportation hubs are often swamped by the event. The station staff at Chiang Kai Shek Memorial Hall Station do an excellent job of crowd control but lines for the subway can still be hours long and very exhausting.  A sudden rain storm on Sunday night (March 4)caused a mass exodus of people to head for the station prompting lines that backed up into the street. The commuting crowds can be avoided however by walking from NTU Hospital Station or Shandao Station.  Both of these stops are only about a 20 minute walk from the event and have no crowds at all. If you really want to avoid the crowds, definitely avoid the weekends. Wait until the fourth or fifth day of the festival when the crowds will have dwindled.  I visited the festival on Saturday night, the opening night, and there was a sea of people in the square. I went back the next Tuesday night and there was almost no one there, just a few stray photographers taking advantage of the unimpeded views of the lanterns.  The festival runs through March 11 this year.India is the latest of the countries where the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) experiment has started. Children from the village of Khairat were given the opportunity to learn how to use the XO laptop. During the last year XO was distributed to children from Arahuay in Peru, Ban Samkha in Thailand, Cardal in Uruguay and Galadima in Nigeria. The OLPC team are, in their reports on the startup of the trials, delighted with how the laptop has improved access to information and ability to carry out educational activities. Thailand's The Nation has praised the project, describing the children as "enthusiastic" and keen to attend school with their laptops.Recent good news for the project sees Uruguay having ordered 100,000 of the machines which are to be given to children aged six to twelve. Should all go according to plan a further 300,000 machines will be purchased by 2009 to give one to every child in the country. As the first to order, Uruguay chose the OLPC XO laptop over its rival from Intel, the Classmate PC. In parallel with the delivery of the laptops network connectivity will be provided to schools involved in the project.The remainder of this article is based on Carla G. Munroy's Khairat Chronicle, which is available from the OLPC Wiki. Additional sources are listed at the end.U.S. First Lady Laura Bush visited Jerusalem and Egypt on a five-day tour of the Middle East hoped to mend the United States' image in that region.  While in Jerusalem visiting several holy sites, including the Dome of the Rock and the Western Wall, she was heckled by protesters.  Mrs. Bush said she was expecting protests and was in fact welcomed by most people."As we all know, this is a place of very high tensions and high emotions," said Mrs. Bush, as she stood in the garden courtyard of the Church of the Resurrection. "And you can understand why when you see the people with a deep and sincere faith in their religion all living side by side."Mrs. Bush's approval ratings have remained very high, above 80%, even as her husband's have recently dropped below 50%.  "Part of this is just that she's so much more popular than the president at home. What's not to like about Laura Bush?" said professor of political science Barbara Burrell to the Christian Science Monitor.During her visit, she participated in recording an episode of the Egyptian Arabic version of the Sesame Street television program.  The Muppet characters are similar to the U.S. version, but have Arabic names, such as Khokhah, a peach-colored little Muppet girl.  Mrs. Bush emphasized the importance of learning to read in her appearance, which is probably to be broadcast on the show's next season.Among her other activities, Mrs. Bush is having lunch with Suzanne Mubarak, wife of President Hosni Mubarak.  She also plans to tour the pyramids and the library at Alexandria.  Mrs. Bush is a former librarian from Texas.Lauren Nelson, 19, sophomore at University of Central Oklahoma, was crowned Miss Oklahoma last night at the Oral Roberts University Mabee Center.  Nelson is the youngest contestant to become Miss Oklahoma.  She will receive a $16,000 scholarship and represent Oklahoma in the Miss America pageant.Nelson is the daughter of Mark and Sherrell Nelson of Lawton.  Competing for the first time in the Miss Oklahoma pageant; she became qualified for the pageant at the Oklahoma State Fair. In 2004, Nelson was Miss Teen Oklahoma.Lindsay Miller from Tulsa, Miss Grand Lake, won an $8,000 scholarship for being the first runner-up.On Wednesday, Martin Harrington and Thomas Leonard, songwriters of the song Amazing performed by Matt Cardle in The X Factor six years ago, claimed British singer Ed Sheeran copied it 'note-by-note' in his 2014 single Photograph. The duo claimed there are 39 identical notes in both the tracks and they seek about US$20m (about 17.8m euros) and royalties from their song in settlement.Matt Cardle, performer of Amazing, denied his partipitation in filing the lawsuit. He tweeted, "Please read news articles closely. This is not my lawsuit. I think Ed Sheeran is a genius & 100% deserves all his success".Photograph, the fifth single of the album x, has more than 208 million views on YouTube and has been purchased 3.5 million times. The song was featured in Hollywood romantic movie Me Before You.The hearing is to take place in federal court in California and Richard Busch is to represent the duo.The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints announced on Wednesday April 20, that they will build a five story library and archive next to Temple Square in Salt Lake City, Utah. Church Member Elder Marlin K. Jensen noted that "Scholars, Church members and other researchers will enjoy expanded, more comfortable research facilities and enhanced access to our collections."The new five-story library is expected to reach completion in late 2007.International leaders have issued Christmas time messages:Long John Baldry, English-born blues legend, passed away at the Vancouver General Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Thursday evening after fighting a severe chest infection for the past four months. Baldry was considered an innovator and inspiration in blues music in the 1950s and 60s and is credited with inspiring other music legends such as Elton John, Rod Stewart, Eric Clapton, and The Rolling Stones.Baldry was born in East Haddon, England, 1941-01-12 and grew to the imposing height of 6 feet 7 inches (2 metres) which gave him his nickname "Long John". He began playing folk and jazz music as a teenager in the 1950s but his deep voice resonated with the blues. Eric Clapton credits seeing Baldry play as an inspiration for him to play the blues himself. In the early 1960s Baldry sang with Alexis Korner's influential band, Blues Incorporated, and then went on to lead a series of bands himself and featured many new musicians who would go onto superstardom, including Rod Stewart, Mick Jagger, Charlie Watts, Jack Bruce, and Jimmy Page.He befriended Paul McCartney while playing at the Cavern in Liverpool and performed on The Beatles' internationally televised special Around the Beatles in 1964. In 1966, Baldry adopted Bluesology for his back-up band, after seeing "promise" in the young keyboard player, Reginald Dwight. In 1968, Dwight adopted the name Elton John, taking the name John in tribute to Baldry.In 1978, he moved to the United States, spending time in New York and Los Angeles, before moving on to Vancouver permanently about 1980 and becoming a Canadian citizen.Baldry has released over 40 albums and, in the last twenty years, done much voice-over work in Canada for commercials and animations including ReBoot and narrating the Disney production, The Original Story Of Winnie-The-Pooh, which earned him a 1998 Grammy spoken word album for children nomination.Before his illness, it had been anticipated that Baldry would be touring in the autumn in support of new recordings produced by Rod Stewart and Elton John to be released this September.British singer Leona Lewis has allegedly been assaulted at an autobiography signing event in the Piccadilly region of London, England.The singer, who rose to fame after winning series 3 of The X Factor UK, was at a Waterstone's book specialist store in the to sign copies of her new autobiography, entitled Dreams, for fans who attended when a fan allegedly "slapped" her on Wednesday.A spokesperson for Scotland Yard had confirmed that police were called to an incident in the area. However, said the spokesperson, "she did not require hospital treatment." A spokesperson for Leona Lewis has also said that she was "understandably shaken....Leona was a victim of an unprovoked attack this afternoon at her book signing," said the spokesperson."The police were called immediately and medical attention has been sought. Leona's understandably badly shaken and apologises to the fans she was unable to meet and complete signings for."Waterstone's refused to reveal much information about the assault, however they have made a statement, saying: "There was an incident at our Leona Lewis signing this afternoon and the event was immediately stopped."We are now doing everything we can to support the police in their enquiries. We take security at our book signings extremely seriously and this is the first time anything of this nature has happened. We would like to thank Leona for her professionalism and we are extremely sad that this event was ruined for her, and her fans, many of whom queued from the early hours of the morning to meet her."The singer was expected to appear on BBC One programme The One Show on Wednesday night. However, the spokesperson for Lewis has now confirmed that her appearance has been cancelled.Leonard Skinner, the namesake of rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd, has died at the age of 77. Skinner was a gym teacher and basketball coach and taught members of the group. His death was announced by his son, also named Leonard Skinner, who also said that he was suffering from Alzheimer's disease.Skinner died at the St. Catherine Laboure Manor nursing home in Riverside at 02.30 a.m. His son said that he had a bowl of ice cream shortly after midnight. He had been at the home for about a year.The coach taught the members of the group in the 1960s and was reportedly hard on the students. He later said in a 2009 interview that "he was just following the rules". He disputed the rumours that he was extra tough on them or that he kicked them out of school. In later years he opened up his own bar and became friends with some members of the group and even introduced them at one of their concerts in Jacksonville.The plan to incinerate over 200 years' worth of archived newspapers at the University of Oslo was paused this week, following an article by the Norwegian newspaper Aftenposten publicising the intended destruction. The unwanted archives take up 3 kilometres of shelf space, and neither the University nor the National Library are interested in retaining and storing the years of history any more. The collection consists of both Nordic and non-Nordic newspapers, including Manchester Guardian, New York Times, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and Le Figaro.A planned incineration of them in 2002 was avoided by moving them into a warehouse owned by Nils Christian Bang at Follum Grend, near Ringerike. Edgar Learn Borg, retired supervisor of the collection, continues to be involved in the preservation of the collection which hasn't been accessed by researchers since its move.The order came again to clean up the store.  Frode Meinich, technical director of the University, says that the collection is not unique, and indicated that the University needs temporary storage for some antiquarian furniture during renovation of a music facility  of the University.In 2007, Frode Meinich told Aftenposten that a national program of infrastructure modernization was desperately needed. "For the time being we are managing to keep the ship afloat, but if something serious isn't done in the next few years we have a major problem".On Thursday afternoon, 21-year-old actress Lindsay Lohan turned herself in to the Beverly Hills Police Department to face charges of misdemeanor hit-and-run and the suspicion of driving under the influence. Accompanied by her lawyer, Lohan was fingerprinted and photographed by police.On May 26 of this year, Lohan had crashed her car into a curb and hedge on Sunset Boulevard and received minor injuries. She was then driven to a Century City hospital in a friend's car. The Beverly Hills Police tracked her down at the hospital where they checked her blood-alcohol level, which was found to be above California's 0.08 percent legal limit, although the police would not disclose what level Lohan's blood-alcohol was.After the crash, Lohan checked herself into a rehabilitation center for a 45-day stay, which was her second round of rehabilitation this year.A court date has been scheduled for August 24, 2007.On Thursday, Chester Bennington, lead singer of US rock band Linkin Park, died in his home in Los Angeles at the age of 41. The Los Angeles county coroner confirmed Bennington's death; reportedly it was being investigated as a possible suicide.A two-time Grammy award winner with the band, Chester Bennington joined Linkin Park when he was 23. Also featuring rapper Mike Shinoda, Linkin Park released their first album, Hybrid Theory, in 2000. The band went on to release six more albums featuring Bennington's voice, including One More Light, which was released this year. The band was scheduled to go on a tour for One More Light, but it has been canceled.Their song Crawling, from Hybrid Theory, won a Grammy for Best Hard Rock Performance. The band was also nominated for Best Rock Album and Best New Artist. A year after releasing Meteora, Linkin Park collaborated with rapper Jay-Z for the Collision Course EP in 2004 whose single Numb/Encore won a Grammy for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration. Meteora has sold more than 27 million copies, which featured the hit song Numb.In his statement, Warner Bros. Records CEO Cameron Strang said, "Chester Bennington was an artist of extraordinary talent and charisma, and a human being with a huge heart and a caring soul." The Recording Academy President Neil Portnow said, "We have lost a truly dynamic member of the music community". In 2013, Bennington performed at the MusiCares MAP Fund benefit concert, whose aim was to aid addiction treatment. Born on March 20, 1976 in Phoenix, Arizona, to a nurse and a police detective, Bennington recounted being abused in his childhood, molested by an older friend over the course of several years starting when he was seven or eight. In a 2008 interview with Kerrang!, he said, "It destroyed my self-confidence [...] Like most people, I was too afraid to say anything. I didn't want people to think I was gay or that I was lying. It was a horrible experience."In an interview with Noisecreep in 2009, he said, "I don't have a problem with people knowing that I had a drinking problem. That's who I am, and I'm kind of lucky in a lot of ways because I get to do something about it." Of the band's Grammy-winning song Crawling, Bennington said the song was "about feeling like I had no control over myself in terms of drugs and alcohol." His first marriage ended in a divorce, and he said, "I knew that I had a drinking problem, a drug problem, and that parts of my personal life were crazy, but I didn't realise how much that was affecting the people around me until I got a good dose of 'Here's-what-you're-really-like.'" In 2011, he told The Guardian, "When I was young, getting beaten up and pretty much raped was no fun. No one wants that to happen to you and honestly, I don't remember when it started [...] My God, no wonder I became a drug addict. No wonder I just went completely insane for a little while."Bennington died on the day his singer friend Chris Cornell would have turned 53. Cornell hanged himself earlier this year. After Cornell's death, Bennington said, "I can't imagine a world without you in it."Bennington is survived by his six children and his wife, Talinda Bentley, whom he married in 2006.When radio host Jerry Klein suggested that all Muslims in the United States should be identified with a crescent-shape tattoo,"the switchboard went from empty to totally jammed within minutes." Some callers agreed with Klein, one saying that, "Not only do you tattoo them in the middle of their forehead but you ship them out of this country ... they are here to kill us." Another caller added that America should, "set up encampments like during World War Two with the Japanese and Germans"At the end of the show Klein revealed that that it had been staged as a hoax. "I can't believe any of you are sick enough to have agreed for one second with anything I said," he told his AM 630 WMAL audience which covers Washington D.C., Northern Virginia and Maryland"For me to suggest to tattoo marks on people's bodies, have them wear armbands, put a crescent moon on their driver's license on their passport or birth certificate is disgusting. It's beyond disgusting.""Because basically what you just did was show me how the German people allowed what happened to the Jews to happen ... We need to separate them, we need to tattoo their arms, we need to make them wear the yellow Star of David, we need to put them in concentration camps, we basically just need to kill them all because they are dangerous."Council on American-Islamic Relations Communications Director Ibrahim Hooper commented:In a press conference held at 13:00 UTC on Tuesday, Bob Geldof, Elton John, and Harvey Goldsmith announced Live 8, a set of simultaneous free concerts to be held in Philadelphia, London, Paris, Rome, and Berlin on July 2, 2005, to raise awareness of Make Poverty History, a campaign to get the richest nations to cancel debt and increase aid to developing countries.  The concerts are scheduled to occur just before the G8 Summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, from July 6 to July 8."20 years ago, at the time of the original Live Aid concert, I was a self-obsessed drug addict.",  began Elton John.  "I've grown up since".  He then described the aim of the concerts to raise awareness in the richest countries of the world of the plights of the poorest, and how his work on global AIDS awareness had impressed upon him the lack of awareness and ignorance that exists.  "The Prime Minister of South Africa thinks that AIDS is something that is caused by poverty.  I wish!"Bob Geldof thanked the corporations who had already come forward to sponsor the event, including the BBC and AOL.  In mentioning AOL he said that "20 years ago, almost nobody had a mobile 'phone", hinting at the possibility of AOL broadcasting the concerts to mobile telephones.  Geldof also thanked The Prince's Trust, which had already booked Hyde Park for July 2, for stepping aside in favour of Live 8.Massive music concerts took place around the planet under the Live 8 banner in an effort to put pressure on the leaders of the eight richest countries in the world to end global poverty.All concerts were timed to take place between noon and 10pm local time, with over a million people expected to attend concerts in Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the US, Canada, South Africa and Russia. The events were broadcast to a potential audience of five and a half billion people world-wide.The largest concert was in the US in Philadelphia where, over the course of 7 hours, hundreds of thousands of people gathered to watch Stevie Wonder, Kanye West, Destiny's Child, Dave Matthews Band, and Black Eyed Peas among others. Philadelphia native Will Smith both performed and was the opening presenter.  Peak attendance, the maximum amount of people believed to be watching Live 8 on the Benjamin Franklin Parkway at a given time, is estimated to have been between 600,000 and 800,000.In Hyde Park in London, 205,000 people watched acts including Elton John, Madonna, Coldplay, Robbie Williams and Pink Floyd. The concert was opened by Sir Paul McCartney and U2 playing Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band - the first time the song has ever been performed live by a Beatle. It ended at 11.58pm with all of the acts coming on stage to sing one last time.Bill Gates - founder of Microsoft and the richest man in the world (owning $46.5 billion) - appeared on the London stage to discuss the challenges facing the world, before introducing Dido. Later, Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the UN addressed the audience, thanking them for their support.However, the first concert to open - in Japan - only drew 10,000 spectators, disappointing many.The concerts follow on 20 years after the Live Aid concert organised by Bob Geldof, which was created to raise money for famine victims in Ethopia.By contrast, the aim of Live 8 - also organised by Geldof - is not fund-raising but instead to apply pressure to the leaders of the G8 to end world poverty, which claims the lives of 50,000 every day.The Live 8 organisers are urging the G8 to:Double the aid sent to the world's poorest countries,Fully cancel their debts,Change the trade laws so that they can build their own future.The Finance Ministers of the G8 agreed a plan last month to cancel the debt of 18 of the poorest countries to the IMF, the World Bank and the African Development Fund, but are requiring other countries to end political and financial corruption before they become elegible for debt relief.On Thursday the President of the United States, George W. Bush, announced that the US will double US aid to Africa by 2010 - increasing to $8.6 billion a year. Bob Geldof welcomed the news, saying "This is the first time we have heard this sort of language. "This is very, very positive indeed."The 2006 Liverpool Biennial art festival will start its ten week run on September 16, finishing on the November 26. The exhibition uses public places located across the city. Installation will be situated at sites across the city including St. George's Hall and Church of St Luke with specialist centers such as the Bluecoat Arts Centre, FACT centre, Tate Liverpool and the Walker Art Gallery providing exhibition space. The international '06 exhibition includes 35 commissioned works, while the 24th John Moores Exhibition of Contemporary Painting is the UK's longest running open painting competition.The Independents is an art exhibition that runs alongside the Biennial. Several shorter festivals will run over this period including the Hope Street festival.The one billion pound Liverpool ONE retail development has opened in Liverpool. A 42 acre area of the city has been cordoned off for 3 years as developers from the Grosvenor Group rebuilt the area.Currently about 40 shops are open and another 120 shops and 20 bars and restaurants will open in September. The area also includes residential development and a cinema. The flagship store is John Lewis.The development is the largest retail development in Europe and contains the longest single-span box bridge in the world. A Novotel and a £50m Hilton Hotel are included in the site. Early next year Chavasse Park will reopen early as well as the 600 flat One Park West tower. BBC Radio Merseyside was one of the first parts of the development to open.The annual Lord Mayor's Show went ahead today in London, continuing a centuries old tradition. Severe weather forced the cancellation of the fireworks display for the first time in twenty years, but thousands of people turned out to watch the procession.The newly elected Lord Mayor of the City of London has journeyed through central London every year since 1215. The ceremony has only been cancelled once, in 1852 for the Duke of Wellington's funeral. Nick Anstee was appointed as the 682nd person to hold the position on Friday.Saturday's show was opened by a flypast from the Royal Air Force. Anstee himself is the son of an RAF pilot, and tried to get into the service. On failing the entrance exams, he moved into finance.Next floats and over 6,000 people began the procession from the City of London to the Royal Courts of Justice. This included 2,000 servicemen and women, as well as the Lord Mayor in the 252-year-old gold State Coach. At the Royal Courts of Justice the Lord Mayor then pledged his allegiance to the Crown.Anstee described the show as "fantastic", and stated his intention to help restore trust in the financial services of the City.The London Planetarium, famous for its distinctive green dome and for being next to Madame Tussauds, will close this week to make way for a new celebrity-themed show opening in July. The Planetarium used to be an attraction in its own right, but in recent years has become simply a feature tacked onto the end of the waxworks tour, the original 45 minute show cut down to just over 10 minutes. The planetarium will be renamed 'The Auditorium' and will feature a show that "gets to the heart of celebrity", being produced in collaboration with animation house Aardman Productions.Famous astronomer Sir Patrick Moore has called the decision "most regrettable", and many have commented that the change from space to celebrity is an unfortunate sign of our times.To say 'farewell' to the planetarium, Tussauds have allowed free entry in its penultimate week, from 24th - 30th April. Visitors could enter through the group admissions entrance to see the show, running every twenty minutes. Unlike the queues for Madame Tussauds, which typically run right up the street, few people waited to see the planetarium show, even on the Saturday. The show, titled Journey to Infinity, was projected onto the inside of the dome using Digistar 3 digital projectors. It told the story of space, starting from Earth and zooming out to reveal the other planets in the Solar System, the Milky Way, the other galaxies and the rest of the universe. It ended with an optimistic message suggesting that humans would continue to explore space, going further than ever before.The London Planetarium opened in 1958 on the site of an old cinema that was destroyed in the second world war. Evening laser performances called 'Laserium' were held between 1977 and 1990. A £4.5 million redevelopment saw it relaunch in 1995 with a new 'Digistar II' monochromatic 3D projection system. This was upgraded to the full-colour 'Digistar 3' system in 2004 which is currently in use.The planetarium at the also famous Royal Observatory in Greenwich has also been closed since September 2004, however this is due to re-open in 2007 having received a £15 million redevelopment programme. It will be three times the size of the old planetarium, and has received backing from Astronomer Royal Sir Martin Rees, and the Astronomer Royal for Scotland, Professor John Brown.Anschutz Entertainment Group (AEG) and mobile phone company O2 have said they intend to open London's Millennium Dome as a concert arena in April 2007.The 365 m diameter dome was built in the 1990s for the year 2000 celebrations and is the largest single-roof structure in the world. After hosting an exhibition for 2000, the dome has mostly laid empty.The building, to be renamed the O2, will contain a 23,000 seat arena, an 1,800 seat theatre and a 2,200 capacity night club.A recent scientific review, involving more than 300,000 people across several previous studies, has revealed that inadequate social networking and frequent isolation can have negative effects on a person's health equal to that caused by smoking and alcohol abuse.  It was found that those who experience sufficient social interactions were 50 per cent more likely to be alive when re-examined eight years later than those who were more socially isolated.The scientists on the project ranked having low-quality relationships with friends and family as equivalent to frequent substance abuse (that is to say, 15 cigarettes a day or heavy alcohol consumption) but worse for a person's health than not participating in exercise and being obese.Timothy Smith, project leader from Brigham Young University (BYU), in Utah, claims that "the importance of having a network of friends and good family relationships is comparable to quitting smoking and exceeds many risk factors of mortality such as obesity, physical inactivity."Related studies have shown that quality relationships stimulate mental and physical health. Smith went onto suggest that General Practitioners should also examine a patient's social network to promote good health."Physicians, health professionals, educators and the public media take risk factors such as smoking, diet and exercise seriously. The data presented here make a compelling case for social relationship factors to be added to that list," he continued.Star of one of the longest-running shows in television history, 79-year-old Chris Wedes is celebrating half a century since he became "Julius Pierpont Patches".From 1958 to 1981, CBS affiliate KIRO-TV produced The J.P. Patches Show. The show featured J.P., the Mayor of the City Dump, who lived in a shack with multiple characters visiting. Virtually the entire supporting cast, male and female, human or non-human, was played by the versatile Bob Newman.The character itself is more than 50 years old.J. P. Patches was created at NBC-affiliate WTCN by Daryl Laub. When he left for KSTP-TV, also in Minnesota, the character was taken over by Wedes. (Wedes was then an actor, DJ, and kids TV cook.) In 1958, Wedes moved to Seattle, to become the first floor director at KIRO-TV, bringing The J.P. Patches Show with him. (Laub, meanwhile, created T. N. Tatters at another station.) The show aired twice a day for 13 years, and once on Saturdays, for 8 more years just in the morning, and for the final two years only on Saturday morning. In total, an estimated 12,000 shows made the air, all of them live, with next to no budget.Wedes told the Everett Herald that: "I'm still amazed at the longevity of the character. When I go on appearances, I get hugs, I get tears, I get laughter. The people are so in love with J.P. Patches. I can't believe it that it has hung on that long."Businesses paid Wedes and the station to appear in character at grand openings, appeared at a Boeing Christmas party with an audience of 55,000, and appeared on Darigold milk containers, Sunbeam bread bags, and Dankens ice cream lids. Even still, the image has been licensed for bobble heads and an action figure. The book "J.P. Patches: Northwest Icon" was published in 2002.While the cartoons were airing, Wedes' Patches would greet guest children; the waiting list was for a while six months long. Children who stopped by include now-billionaire Bill Gates, and former Washington Governor Gary Locke.Celebrities appearing on the show included politicians, Olympic medalists, comedian Steve Allen, Burt "Robin" Ward of Batman, folk singer Tiny Tim, actress Debbie Reynolds, oceanographer Jacques Cousteau, and Colonel Harland Sanders, the founder of Kentucky Fried Chicken.Some parents objected to KIRO-TV dropping the national series Captain Kangaroo, three years into its run, to put in Patches.A minor controversy erupted when a local newspaper photographed Wedes, being taken in an ambulance when involved in a car crash, not of his own fault. The official site reads that "The picture distressed many local children and would remain an embarrassment to the local media if they actually had any shame."There are still enough "Patches Pals", fans of the show, that a statue is planned for Seattle's Fremont neighborhood. To be completed this summer, the fundraiser is just $55,000 away from the $165,000 needed for the sculpture of Patches with Gertrude, the character's girlfriend.They've so far donated $110,000 of $165,000 to cast a bronze statue of J.P. Patches and his sidekick Gertrude to be placed in the Fremont neighborhood of Seattle. More money is still needed for the statue, being made by a Sultan sculptor and completed this summer. Any money raised that isn't needed for the statue, coordinated by the local chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, goes to the Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center in Seattle; the statue itself will have a slot to collect money for the hospital. Billboards around the region track the fundraising progress.Wedes was diagnosed in October with a controllable but incurable blood cancer, "acute myeloma". He had to avoid public appearance until recently, due to the told of dialysis. He made seven county fair appearances in 2007, and 30 other gigs. Newman often joins him to perform, despite have multiple sclerosis for the past 20 years.The two will appear in "An Evening With JP Patches & Gertrude: The Men Behind The Makeup", April 5 at The 7th Street Theatre in Hoquiam.Lord Terence Burns has been confirmed as the new chairman of British television channel Channel 4.Burns, who was the Permanent Secretary to the Treasury from 1991 to 1998, will take the position on January 24, 2010. He will replace the former chairman, Luke Johnson, who is now retiring. Luke was chairman of Channel 4 since early 2004. Lord Burns will also immediately take the position to try and find a new chief executive alongside Luke Johnson, after it was announced that the current chief executive Andy Duncan was to retire after being in the position for five years. Speaking about joining the corporation for the channel, Burns said: "I am delighted to be joining Channel 4. This is a time of great change as we experience the impact of the rapid development of digital technology in the communications sector and Channel 4 has a very special and continuing role to play."Colette Bowe is the current chairman of Office of Communications, or Ofcom, an independent regulator and competition authority for the communication industries in the United Kingdom. Speaking about this announcement, Bowe said: "He [Lord Burns] has an outstanding record of public service and a real depth of commercial expertise. He will provide strong leadership at a time of considerable change in the broadcasting world. I would also like to pay tribute to Luke Johnson’s tremendous contribution to Channel 4 in a period during which it has enjoyed considerable success."This September 15, 2007, being the birthday of Lord Ganesha, marks the important festival of Ganesh Chaturthi for Hindus in India and world wide. Lord Ganesha occupies a special god status in Hindu tradition, and is considered as the bestower of all auspiciousness and destroyer of all negativity. Typically these festive celebrations last from one to 11 days, concluding with a Nimajjan ceremony (immersing the deity in the waters of lake/pond/river/sea/ocean etc). These celebrations are splendidly carried out in India amidst strict security as thousands participate. However; several Indian Hindu communities spread across the globe from Australia to North America have celebrated with no less pomp. Notable ones were the celebration in the Scandinavian towns of Roskilde and Skovde, where due to the unavailability of Ganesh Maharaj statue (which are readily available in India), the organizers made a deity with black sticky clay soil collected from local farmlands with no added artificial colours. These celebrations in Scandinavia besides having the usual religious significance has an added flavor demonstrating the environmental awareness in nordic countries. Recently eco-friendly Ganesh immersions are being urged by various environmental activists in India as well.Finnish theatrical hard rock band Lordi have been added to the billing of the upcoming Castle Festival in Serbia.The event will take place at the Smederevo Fortress in Smederevo across July 1-5. Over 70 bands will perform at the festival.Festival organisers released a statement saying “Lordi is very popular in Serbia amongst heavy metal bands. They revolutionised Eurovision with their rock song”. This refers to Lordi's victory at the 2006 Eurovision Song Contest, at which their song Hard Rock Hallelujah scored a record 292 points and gave Finland their first win at the contest.The bands scheduled span a wide range of rock and metal genres. Amongst the other acts already confirmed to appear are Judas Priest, Helloween, Soilwork, Ensiferum, At The Gates, Avantasia, Sodom, Dismember, Saturnus, Manticora and Sybreed.Dark Floors, a horror film under production in Northern Finland and starring the hard rock band Lordi (who are famed for their monster costumes and lyrical themes), has received €300,000 (£200,000) funding from the Finnish government.Lordi are also famed for their record-breaking 292 point victory in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006 with their song Hard Rock Hallelujah. It was also the first time a hard rock song had won the contest, and Finland's first ever victory.The film is being shot in English, with a largely Finnish cast, and has a production cost of €4.2 million (£2.84 million). The plot features a "monster attack" on the world, with a young Autistic girl being the only person in a position to save it.Lead singer Mr Lordi said that as their masks and costumes were derived from horror films it was "kind of natural" that they should make their own.Finnish theatrical hard rock band Lordi have released Beast Loose in Paradise - which will be the soundtrack to the band's upcoming horror movie Dark Floors - as a downloadable single.The song was originally intended to be released via Zed.fi, but for unknown reasons has not appeared on the site. However, it has appeared on at least two other sites as a pay-to-download single - MSN Music Finland and MTV3.fi.The song was one of two recorded last month, and will be released by Sony BMG Finland as an actual CD on January 8 . The other song, titled Studs and Leather, was also written for the movie.The cover art for the CD single has already been revealed. It is a direct tribute to the KISS album Creatures of the Night.Most of both songs were composed during Lordi's tour of the United States as part of Ozzfest, with the band's lead vocalist saying in an interview with MonsterDiscoHell.com that the main riff of Beast Loose in Paradise was written in Milwaukee, while the chorus of Studs and Leather was composed in St. Augustine. He went on to say that Studs and Leather had originally been intended for Bend over and Pray the Lord!, an unreleased album from 1999 that had been intended to be Lordi's debut. The verses from Beast Loose in Paradise had been decided on between the whole band during therapy sessions at Christmas 2006. He said that he had written most of the rest between two US tours, the Ozzfest tour and a tour as the support act for American gothic doom metal band Type O Negative.He continued to deny a recent rumour posted in Finnish music periodical Soundi that the new material was going to be "more brutal and raw" than that on Lordi's last album, The Arockalypse. "Our music is not gonna get any brutal or heavier, but not any lighter [either]... I'd say these two songs are familiar Lordi. Although Beast Loose in Paradise is more 'movie-esque' and 'horror-ish' on purpose. And some might say it's even heavier, but at the very least the chorus will be familiar and melodic Lordi stuff. And Studs and Leather is basically Heaven's on Fire (KISS song) meets Balls To The Wall (Accept song).Finnish theatrical hard rock band Lordi - who are known for their 'monster' personas - have released a music video for the single Bite It Like a Bulldog. The song rose to number one on the Finnish single chart.The song is the lead single from Deadache, Lordi's new album, which is due for release later this month. The album's musical style is described as similar to the band's previous work in that it is melodic hard rock, but with a 'rougher' quality to it and stronger horror themes. The band's keyboardist previously compared some of the music to that of Rob Zombie.The band have also introduced new incarnations of their costumes, as they do for the release of each album. According to the group's frontman, part of the aim for the video was to showcase these to the world for the first time. "The modern horror film classics such as The Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake and Hostel were the starting points and the influence for the visual look," he told MTV.He also explained that the intention was to produce something different with the video. "We wanted to achieve something that breaks the tradition of Lordi videos... The idea was to have a video with a not-so-simple and easily understandable storyline. We wanted the clip to focus on the feeling of the song and the new, more grotesque look of the band." The video was directed by Limppu Lindberg, who has worked on graphic design with Lordi and directed videos for Finnish metal bands such as Children of Bodom and Norther.The video's United States TV debut will be made tonight at 11pm on MTV2’s Headbangers Ball.Finnish hard rock band Lordi are to star in a horror movie called Dark Floors.The film is written in English and began filming earlier this month and will premier in Finland late this year. The film has a budget of 3-4 million euros.Lordi are famed for their monster costumes and lyrical themes. The band, who won the Eurovision Song Contest 2006 with Hard Rock Hallelujah, stated at the time they would like to star in a horror movie. They were one of a number of people promoting their films at the Cannes Film Festival this weekend; a "Finland Bar" was set up near the area.Mr Lordi, lead vocalist of the band, said at the time "In a way it is traditional horror film, but a traditional modern horror film. It has monsters obviously in it... It has some twists in the plot, of course, it has some horrific scenes and a horrific mood, it is more like a psychological thing... Lordi goes to the twilight zone, that is pretty much (what) you can say." Lordi also performed at the Cannes festival.The long-lost tomb of Marcus Nonius Macrinus, the inspiration of the character Maximus Decimus Meridius in Ridley Scott's popular film 'Gladiator', was discovered off the ancient Via Flaminia road in Rome this Thursday.Pieces of the tomb first began to emerge from the ground during construction for a residential complex along the Tiber River's banks.The archaeological finding was "the most important ancient Roman monument to come to light for 20 or 30 years", said Daniela Rossi, who was a top member of the effort in finding the tomb. The Superintendent of Archaeology in Rome, Angelo Bottini, described the tomb as "a monument of great beauty". Cristiano Ranieri led the effort along with other archaeologists, who are still working hard to fully uncover the site. The team hopes to find the sarcophagus of the ancient hero among the sprawling tomb.Marble columns fifteen meters wide, inscriptions, decorations, writings and other priceless treasures have been preserved thanks to an ancient flood from the Tiber River. The massive tomb details the life of the ancient gladiator through ten inscriptions, whose history differed greatly from the movie's version. The two had only shared being close friends and generals of the Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius. The historical version of the character had lived on to become wealthy and famous, while the character played by Russell Crowe had a tragic ending.Plans are underway to turn the area into the Via Flaminia Archaeological Park, with the tomb as the central attraction.After years of rumours George Lucas personally announced at Star Wars "Celebration V" Convention in Orlando the worldwide release of the Star Wars  Saga on Blu-ray in autumn 2011. All six films will be released as a box-set with high video- and audio-quality and containing additional features.Specific details have not been mentioned, but a "deleted scene" was shown at the convention, where Luke Skywalker assembles a lightsabre. "Blu-ray is the absolute best way to experience Star Wars at home – in pristine high definition,” said George Lucas, creator of the Star Wars Saga. “The films have never looked or sounded better."According to The New York Times, George Lucas said that they wanted to wait with the Blu-ray Disc release until market penetration was high enough, because they learned from the 1980s VHS release that an early release on a new home-video system can negatively influence sale figures.Wikinews learned yesterday that Lucasfilm have issued copyright claims to YouTube regarding videos related to the convention and the deleted scene that is now slated for release. As a result, YouTube has removed at least two videos showing this content.Computer hacking group Lulz Security has attacked a server of one of the United States affiliates of Nintendo, a Japanese-based video gaming company. Nintendo themselves confirmed the news on Sunday, with a statement from the corporation reporting that the unit was illegally accessed "a few weeks ago".Speaking on behalf of the corporation, Ken Toyoda had claimed that "[t]here were no third-party victims" but acknowledged "there was some kind of possible hacking attack". According to Tomokazu Nakaura, Nintendo in Japan considers "protection of our customer information" to be the "utmost priority". To adhere to this claim, the corporation does "constantly monitor our security".In this instance, the hackers were not able to gain consumer details as the attacked server did not have any on it, according to Nintendo. On social networking website Twitter LulzSec defended their actions, tweeting: "We're not targeting Nintendo. We like the N64 too much - we sincerely hope Nintendo plugs the gap. This is just for lulz. <3"Nintendo has reported that the issue has now been rectified and that the incident will have no effect on their intentions to launch an e-shop in association with one of their products, the Nintendo 3DS, a games console which allows users to play games in a three-dimensional space without the requirement of glasses.Recently, LulzSec has claimed responsibility for a number of Internet attacks that have occurred during 2011. Amongst those were three aimed at the Sony online network. The first attack occurred in April, when the group hacked the PlayStation Network, placing the personal details of 77 million users at risk. This prompted Sony Pictures Entertainment to remove access to the network for in excess of one month.The second attack occurred on May 23, when LulzSec unlawfully gained access to the details 52,000 Sony Pictures Entertainment consumers, as well as illegally taking them. In a third incident, LulzSec accepted responsibility for an alleged database hacking on the website for Sony Music in Japan on May 23.A group of Internet hackers, which refers to itself as Lulz Security or LulzSec, has claimed to have broken into servers for Sony entertainment websites and stolen in excess of one million items of personal details, including email addresses and passwords. Seventy-five thousand "music codes" and three-and-a-half million "music coupons" were also alleged broken into, according to a statement on their website.In a statement, LulzSec reported that, "[f]rom a single injection, we accessed EVERYTHING" [sic]. Claiming that Sony had not encrypted data which they allegedly gained access to and "were asking for it", the group questioned: "Why do you put such faith in a company that allows itself to become open to these simple attacks?" Sony Pictures Entertainment spokesperson Jim Kennedy has stated that the corporation is "looking into these claims".This incident is reminiscent of an occasion when the data of over 77 million accounts on the PlayStation Network were unlawfully taken by hackers in April 2011. The thefts prompted Sony to close the network, as well as other features, for nearly one month. According to BBC News Online, the attack is thought to be the largest in the history of the Internet.Acclaimed lyricist, poet and screenplay-writer Javed Akhtar has been awarded the Indira Gandhi Prize for National Integration. Congress Party President Sonia Gandhi presented Akhtar the award, in the presence of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh at a function in New Delhi.Dr. Singh pointed out that the prize celebrated the late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's "deep commitment to the unity and integrity of the country", recalling Akhtar's comments that the 2002 communal clashes in Gujarat were not a "Hindu-Muslim problem, but a clash of secularism and democracy versus fascism and intolerance". Singh also expressed his delight at the fact that "a creative, committed, secular and patriotic Indian" was being honoured in memory of Mrs. Gandhi.The Prime Minister also commended Akhtar's contributions to the empowerment of women, while Sonia Gandhi (who headed the advisory committee that chose the winner) spoke about the lyricist's efforts to fight against fundamentalism and expose the divisive forces in Indian politics.Esma Redžepova, a Macedonian singer nicknamed the "Queen of Gypsy Music", was on Sunday reported to have died. She was 73.An ethnic Roma, Redžepova spent decades performing and was an early Balkan singer to use the Romany language. She combined Roma, Macedonian, and contemporary music in her work and also campaigned for humanitarian issues such as women's rights and for Roma people.Her worldwide career saw her collaborate with many young Balkan artists as well as composer Stevo Teodosievski, whom she married. She was thrice nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize and fostered over 40 children. Her varied performances included singing for world leaders, representing Macedonia at the 2013 Eurovision Song Contest, and recording the opening song for the film Borat.She was also known for eye-catching outfits. Redžepova died after an illness in Skopje.Amid economic turmoil, rising costs, and the growing popularity of the internet, many magazines are closing or cutting staff, worldwide. The following is a sample of the news.The CBS Evening News commentary segment "Free Speech" , which made its debut with Katie Couric this month, was accused last Friday by Bill Maher of HBO's "Real Time with Bill Maher" of being "anything but free speech".Maher said he was asked by CBS News to appear on the segment. But when he asked if he could talk about religion, "that was a dealbreaker from the start". Instead, he said they would send over a list of "acceptable topics". CBS News executive producer Rome Hartman has since responded in an e-mail to TVNewser saying that, "Bill Maher was never told that he couldn't discuss religion in a Free Speech segment," and added, "In fact, Free Speech has already addressed religion and we expect others will in the future." No response from Bill Maher on this statement as of yet.Actress Majel Barrett-Roddenberry, who was the wife of Star Trek creator Gene Roddenberry, has died of leukemia at the age of 76. According to a spokesperson, Roddenberry died in her home in Bel-Air, California.Roddenberry was probably most known for her role as the voice of the computers in nearly every Star Trek television spinoff series from the 1960's to present time. She is also the voice of the computer in the upcoming movie by director J.J. Abrams, Star Trek. Majel also played Nurse Chapel in the original Star Trek series starring William Shatner and later played Lwaxana Troi in Star Trek: The Next Generation and Star Trek: Deep Space Nine. Majel also starred in other TV shows not related to Star Trek such as Earth: Final Conflict, The Lucy Show, Leave it to Beaver and Genesis II.Majel's husband Gene died in 1991 of heart failure. After his death, Majel took over the Star Trek franchise and put several of Gene's unfinished projects into production which included two television shows.The fourth annual Maker Faire took place this past weekend at the San Mateo Fairground in San Mateo, California located in the United States. The first Maker Faire, which took place in 2006, had approximately 20,000 people in attendance. This year, more than 80,000 people were expected to attend; quadruple the attendance of just four years prior. On Saturday night, it was reported that attendance was up considerably over last year's event.Maker Faire, the self-declared "World's Largest DIY Festival", offers a forum where hundreds of makers and crafters alike man booths where they display their work. In the main halls alone, there were hundreds of booths. Outside the expo halls, the surrounding area was also filled with many interesting projects, some of which were mobile. In addition to all of the projects on display, there were a number of on-stage presentations. The biggest presentation of the weekend was given by Adam Savage who spoke on the topic of his "Colossal Failures". During his talk, the Fiesta Hall was filled to capacity. The theme for this year's fair was "Remake: America" after President Obama's call to "begin again the work of remaking America". In addition, "going green", alternative fuel vehicles, crafting, steampunk and sciences for the young, were common themes found throughout the fair.According to a press release today from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, there are seven films in contention for the "Academy Award for Makeup".Alphabetically, the films are:ApocalyptoClickPan's LabyrinthPirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man’s ChestThe PrestigeThe Santa Clause 3: The Escape ClauseX-Men The Last StandTen minutes of each film will be screened for the Academy's Makeup Award Nominating Committee on Saturday, January 20, 2006. The committee will decide which of the three films should receive nominations. This list will then be voted on by the entire Academy.The 79th Academy Awards will honor the outstanding film achievements of 2006. The ceremony is scheduled for Sunday, February 25, 2007, at the Kodak Theatre at Hollywood & Highland Center.The film was passed without any cuts by the National Film Censorship board in March but the Home Ministry retracted the approval ten days before film was scheduled to start screening. The film is described as a "semi-musical documentary" and is inspired by the leader of the disbanded Malayan Communist Party, Chin Peng and the Malayan Emergency during which over ten thousand Malayan and British troops and civilians lost their lives.The film features "interviews with the people in the towns [Peng] lived from birth to national independence" that is "interspersed with specially composed songs in the mould of old-fashioned propaganda films." The film made its world debut at the Berlin Film Festival. It also appeared at this year's  Seattle International Film Festival and the London Film Festival.The ban comes after Berita Harian, a conservative Malay daily, printed a series of articles critical of the film and the Censorship board. In the first article, the reporters ask government ministers and professors to comment on the impact of the film."About 20 [Ministers of Parliament] but 40 journalists including photographers," said filmmaker Amir Muhammed about a screening of his controversial documentary at the National Film Institute on Sunday, May 21. Among the ministers to comment on the film, Culture, Arts and Heritage Minister Datuk Seri Dr Rais Yatim has been widely quoted in the press.On May 21, Malaysia's national news agency, Bernama, filed a story entitled, "Rais finds the 'Last Communist' not offensive." With reference to the May 18th screening, Bernama reports Rais  said, "The plot isn't controversial and there's nothing that could be deemed as offensive from the cultural viewpoint."Commenting on interviews with former members of the Malayan Communist Party, "they were vague, not conclusive for any quarters," he said.The national daily New Straits Times also reported on the screening. It reports Rais said the film is "not important enough to be controversial".The daily followed up with an article where Rais is reported as saying the film "indeed 'glorifies' former communist leader Chin Peng", filed May 24. "Amir should have interviewed the security forces, the Home Guard, the families of the home guard who were killed by the communists, and government officials of the time," said Rais.The Bernama article incorrectly attributes the source of the ban to the Internal Security Ministry, it was widely reported that the Home Ministry was responsible.The film has picked up controversy because it is inspired by the Malayan Emergency. Chin Peng himself is living in exile in North Thailand. He released an autobiography last year entitled, "Chin Peng: My side of history."Angry fans of popular Indian film actor Rajinikanth rioted in 10 cinemas in Malaysia after the release of the actor's latest movie was delayed by technical problems.The release of Sivaji: The Boss was supposed to occur simultaneously across southern India and Tamil-speaking parts of Malaysia on Thursday. But not enough prints of the film were available, so cinemas in Malaysia had to resort to trying to screen digital versions of the movie on equipment they were unfamiliar with, which led to the delays and glitches. Fans found the situation unacceptable.According to a report in today's New Straits Times, the worst-hit in the mayhem was the Sri Intan Theatre in Klang, in Selangor state. Patrons had started lining up at 4 p.m. local time (0800 GMT), and waited five hours for the show to start.Due to technical problems, it started late at 10:30 p.m., with tickets for both the 9 p.m. and midnight shows fully booked. Then, halfway through the film, at around 11:30 p.m., the screening was halted due to "technical problems", according to the cinema manager, and could not be fixed.The management announced that the show had to be cancelled and offered to refund the ticket money, but then the crowd became unhinged. Glass displays, lights and speakers were smashed. The screen and curtains were torn. Chairs were ripped apart, and wood panelling damaged. According to another local daily, The Star, angry fans even briefly set fire to the building, but it was quickly extinguished by cinema staff.The Sri Intan has suspended screenings while repairs are made. Damage is been estimated at 70,000 Malaysian ringgit (about US$20,000).In Ipoh, about 125 miles (200 kilometres) north of Kuala Lumpur, police were summoned to control unruly crowds at the Sri Kinta cinema. A cinema manager was beaten by irate fans, and he was taken to the hospital with head injuries that required stitches. Police were also called in at a cinema Penang, where patrons banged on ticket counters, demanding refunds and that the movie be shown. The first showing finally got under way after a three-hour delay. Fistfights broke out at a cinema in Rawang, where fans threw bottles and smashed glass cases.In Kuala Lumpur, the venerable Coliseum Theatre also had an unruly crowd."People grew impatient and started pushing, resulting in a broken glass panel at the counter. We only got the movie at 4:30 p.m. and started selling the tickets at 4:45 p.m.," theater owner Chua Seong Siew was quoted as saying in the New Straits Times.The movie distributor said the delay was due to not enough prints of the film being sent from AVM, the Chennai-based production company."Rain and delay in getting the digital password from India for security reasons to beat piracy were the primary reasons for the delay and cancellations. Because of the rain, our delivery was affected and as a result, there was a delay in the screening of the movie," S. Vel Paari, head of distributor Pyramid Saimira Theatre Chain, was quoted as saying by The Star.Paari said he had ordered 53 copies of the film, but only got 42."The remaining 11 prints had to be downloaded through the Internet," he explained to The Star.The film, Sivaji: The Boss, is a 185-minute cavalcade of action, romance and song-and-dance numbers, starring Rajinikanth, one of the most popular stars of Tamil cinema, which is also known as "Kollywood", the second-largest of the Indian film industry after the Hindi-language "Bollywood". Budgeted at US$15 million, which is huge by Indian-industry standards, the film is said to be the most expensive yet made in India.The film's flamboyant 57-year-old star, Rajnikanth, has a cult-like following in Tamil-speaking southern India, and tickets to the film have been sold out for weeks.In Malaysia, about 10 percent of the population of 26 million are ethnic Indians, most of them Tamil.Malaysian documentary The Last Communist was passed without cuts by the National Film Censorship board in March. Ten days before it was supposed to start screening, the Home Ministry retracted the approval. The film made its world debut at the Berlin Film Festival 2006 without filmmaker Amir Muhammed in attendance. It also appeared at the Seattle International Film Festival 2006 and the London Film Festival 2006. It has been reviewed favorably in Variety and UK's Sight & Sound. Sight & Sound called the film an "essayistic delight" and of Amir Muhammed "the only visible heir to the Chris Marker tradition."The ban comes after Berita Harian, a conservative Malay daily, printed a series of articles critical of the film and the Censorship board. In the first article, the reporters ask government ministers and professors to comment on the impact of the film. The response is wholly negative.Home Minister Datuk Seri Mohd Radzi Sheikh Ahmad issued a retraction of the approval on May 5, 2006. Deputy Minister Datuk Tan Chai Ho described the reasons behind the ban as, "the public was not very happy about the movie."Neither the Berita Harian journalists nor their sources had seen the full movie. The article misstates that the film glorifies "the communist leader" when Chin Peng is mentioned only once throughout the film. At the request of opposition Parliamentary leader Lim Kit Siang, the documentary was screened for ministers of Parliament. Culture, Arts and Heritage Minister Datuk Seri Dr Rais Yatim said, "The plot isn't controversial and there's nothing that could be deemed as offensive from the cultural viewpoint." Lim Kit Siang called the movie, "an eye opener for all".On Monday, 22nd May, Radzi announced that in the annual meeting of the UMNO supreme council, in June, the government is scheduled to decide whether to keep the ban on the film, or let the people decide.At the time of the ban, Radzi had not seen the film either.Two male models (known as Tyler Denk, 29, and James Branaman) have won the tenth season of CBS' hit show The Amazing Race. The models were awarded USD$1 million. Each received USD$500,000. Both are recovering addicts and are friends in the modeling scene, they reconnected after going through rehab.The models competed in a race around the world against people from around the United States. After arriving at France's Caen Airport, one member of each team was required to skydive. After the task was finished, teams had to design clothes at a shop in Paris. When they were finished, teams had to get a flight to New York City, Rob and Kimberly told the manager that they had to win $1 million, he gave them a seat. Tyler and James also got on the same flight. When the teams arrived in New York their first stop was at the Daily News building. The last stop was at Manhattan's Astor Park were they got their final clue. Tyler and James quickly got into a taxi cab and arrived at St. Basil Academy in Garrison, New York, they ran to the finish line were the host Phil Keoghan with all eliminated twelve teams waited for the winner. Rob Diaz and Kimberly Chabolla were in second and Lynn Turk and Karlyn Harris were in last."For James and I, we've been through so much together as a friendship and in our lives that, first, to accomplish yet another thing — that's gravy on top of the mashed potatoes," said Tyler Denk. "Another gift of life.""We live our lives with such gratitude already that this was just one of those experiences that we would only get through sobriety," James Branaman said.The Amazing Race season 11 is expected to start next year.A man has been arrested and charged after the assault of British singer Leona Lewis, which occurred on Wednesday. The attacker turned out to be 29-year-old Peter Kowalczyk, who suffers from a health condition called anaemia, which causes a reduction from the normal number of red blood cells. The condition also causes a decrease in oxygen-binding ability. His parents said that it "affects his state of mind". He had also been suffering from a series of psychological problems, of which he was getting music therapy for from the National Health Service (NHS).It was thought that he attacked Leona Lewis out of envy because she had won the third series of The X Factor UK, whereas he was turned down from the show, according to British tabloid The Sun. On Wednesday, Leona was signing copies of her autobiography "Dreams" for attending fans in a Waterstone's book specialist store in the Piccadilly region of London, England. Kowalczyk was believed to be waiting for five hours to get an autobiography signing. When he did attack Lewis, he was immediately wrestled to the ground by security guards at the scene, while Leona was escorted away. The attack left a large bruise on her head.Peter has been arrested and charged with assault. He was placed into a psychiatric hospital and sectioned under the Mental Health Act 2007 on Thursday. As a result of this incident, Leona Lewis has cancelled a trip to Germany, where she would have signed more copies of her autobiography. The 24-year-old singer is now being cared for in her East London home by Jo and Maria, her parents, and is also being comforted by Lou Al-Chaama, her boyfriend. It has been reported that Kowalczyk is due to appear in a court in late October 2009.The Blue Man Group issued a press release Friday morning refuting a man's claims that they forced a tube down his throat as part of a show.Earlier this week, audience participant James Srodon filed a court claim in Cook County Circuit Court that members of performance trio forced a dirty tube down his throat against his will while he was part of a skit called "Esophagus Video."The description of the incident is not true, says the musical performance group."We are shocked and surprised to learn of the allegations made in reference to one of our comedic pieces, 'Esophagus Video,'" the group said.Srodon claims that he was unexpectedly approached and had a tubular camera forced down his throat during an October 2006 performance at Chicago's Briar Street Theatre. He claims he had his head was forced back and one of the Blue Men forced the tube in him. The joke is to show footage from the inside of the audience member.The Blue Man Group says that nothing actually goes down anyone's throat." 'Esophagus Video' is simply an illusion," the group wrote in its press release. "A camera is held in an actor's hands, the actor's hands are placed near an audience member's mouth (not on or in). The live-feed video screen then switches to a pre-recorded medical video, resulting in the hilarious and absurd illusion that the audience is peering down an individual's esophagus. Because the camera never enters the mouth, the execution of this illusion could not possibly put anyone at risk of injury."The group added the skit and skits like it have been performed for the past 15 years by them without complaint.The Californian is suing on the basis that the alleged tube was unsafely dirty and that his experience being cornered gave him post-traumatic stress and nightmares.Srodon also claims he lost fillings and dental work because of the tube. The suit is reported to be seeking damages of more than $500,000, however the group reported that they have not been served papers as of Friday morning.The Blue Man Group has a lot of audience participation as part of their show and is a Las Vegas fixture. The music and comedy group came to public consciousness around 2000.A man has died after riding the Expedition Everest roller coaster at Walt Disney World's Animal Kingdom in Orlando, Florida.The man, identified as Jeffery Reed, 44 from Navarre, was given CPR after being pulled off the ride unconscious, and was taken in an ambulance to Celebration Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Reed had no external signs of injuries, and police are investigating to determine whether or not Reed may have had any pre-existing medical conditions. An autopsy is to be performed on the body, but details have not yet been released.Reed was believed to have been conscious at least 50 seconds before the ride ended, when a camera took a picture of him. Cameras are sometimes placed on roller coasters so that riders can buy a photo of themselves as they go down a hill.It is reported that the ride, which opened in 2006, was functioning properly at the time of the incident, but has been closed until further notice.The Walt Disney World website for the ride says "WARNING! For safety, you should be in good health and free from high blood pressure, heart, back or neck problems, motion sickness, or other conditions that could be aggravated by this adventure. Expectant mothers should not ride."Since 1989, 15 people have died while riding on rides at the park; many who have died on park rides have had prior aliments.A four-year-old who died on the Body Wars ride in 1995 had a cardiac conduction defect, which is a congenital heart condition; the mother insisted the girl had no history of health problems, but relatives told officials that the girl was being treated at the University of Texas Medical Branch in Galveston for undisclosed reasons.Autopsy of a boy who died on Rock 'n' Roller Coaster in 2006 found he too had a congenital heart problem. In 2006, a 49-year-old German tourist died in a hospital after she fell ill on the Mission: Space ride, from bleeding brain caused by high blood pressure, not provoked by the ride.In an unusual protest, British performance artist, Mark McGowan ate meatballs which were made from a Corgi, a breed of dog often kept by the Royal Family.McGowan is protesting alleged cruelty exhibited by Prince Philip. The husband of Queen Elizabeth II is reported to have beaten to death a fox, during a fox hunt.The event was broadcast live on a radio program hosted by Bob and Roberta Smith. Yoko Ono, widow of John Lennon, was also there and tasted some of the Corgi meatballs.People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) seemed to approve of the protest: "The idea of eating a corgi will make many people lose their lunch," said Poorva Joshipura, European director. "But foxes, who are hunted for so-called entertainment, are no less capable of feeling fear and pain."  McGowan said the corgi he consumed had died recently at a breeding farm and had not been killed for the purposes of the protest. It was minced with apple, onion and seasoning, turned into meatballs and served with salad, but McGowan said: "It's disgusting. It's really, really, really disgusting."The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) claimed however that there was no evidence that Prince Philip had mistreated the fox or that it had suffered.Jeff Tweiten, a 27-year-old graphic artist, is encamped in front of the Cinerama Theatre, on a blue sofa, in the northwest city of Seattle, Washington. Tweiten plans to wait 139 days for the premiere of "Star Wars: Episode III — Revenge of the Sith," which opens May 19, 2005.He has received help from a community of friends and local business people who have supplied changes of clothes, coffee, food, and a nearby restroom.City authorities have chosen not to enforce vagrancy laws that would force Tweiten to move between the hours of 7AM and 9PM local time.Tweiten also camped out for the previous two episodes of the Star Wars movies, "Episode I" and "Episode II".On Tuesday or Wednesday, by varying reports, Etienne Cardiles married his late partner Xavier Jugelé at a posthumous wedding ceremony in France. Xavier Jugelé was a police officer posthumously awarded France's Legion of Honour — amongst the highest honours of France — after he was killed in the line of duty in April of this year.Some reports indicated the guests included former French President Francois Hollande and current Mayor of Paris Anne Hidalgo.The BBC reported this ceremony may be the first posthumous same-sex wedding in France, where posthumous weddings are legally allowed under the country's civil code. Hollande, while in office, granted Cardiles permission; posthumous marriage guidelines on the French government's website say the president may grant permission if the petitioner, here Cardiles, shows serious cause and the other partner's willingness to be married. In China, posthumous weddings are also practiced in a form called "ghost marriages", arranged for deceased with a living or dead partner.Jugelé had a civil partnership with Cardiles. Jugelé was a campaigner for gay rights, and as an officer worked in Paris since 2014. He also was deployed in the November 2015 Paris attacks.On April 20, Jugelé was fatally shot twice in the head on duty by a convicted criminal Karim Cheurfi during the Champs-Élysées shooting incident of that day. During the shooting, two other officers were wounded, and Cheurfi was fatally shot in action.At a remembrance ceremony for Jugelé in April, then-President Hollande gave him the Legion of Honour. Cardiles said in eulogy, "I have no hatred, Xavier, because it is not like you and does not fit with what made your heart beat nor what made you a guardian of the peace."Canadian Reverend Kevin Fast has set a new record in the "heaviest vehicle pulled over 100 feet", beating his previous best. The record was set on "Live's Guinness World Record Breaker Week", an annual feature on the American talk show program Live with Regis and Kelly.The previous record for this category, also set by Fast, was 125,660 lbs (57,000 kg). With the surprise addition of 92-pounder co-host Kelly Ripa to the International Loadstar truck being pulled, Last hauled a load of 126,292 (57,285 kg) lbs over 137 feet (42 meters).Between pants, the Cobourg, Ontario resident told Regis Philbin and Ripa that he was "a little worried" during the pull. But the first thing he said after the attempt was "I feel great!" Paramedics were standing by, and quickly inspected him after the attempt.Fast's only food in preparation for the event was a cup of coffee. He pulled on a rope, anchored by a parked car."Live's Guinness World Record Breaker Week" continues until Friday. Stuart Claxton from the company Guinness World Records has been judging all of the record attempts, as he has for many years for the program.To protest the €15 million budget of the RomeFilmFest, a man yesterday threw a bucket of red paint into the famous Trevi Fountain in Rome, before fleeing the scene. The water in the fountain turned complete red for a while, before technicians were able to cut off the water supply, let the dye wash out, and then replace it with fresh water.Pamphlets by a previously unknown group called ATM Azionefuturista 2007 were found near the fountain, protesting the budget the festival was awarded. The red fountain was meant as a reference to the red carpet of the festival, which opened last Thursday, October 18. "You wanted just a red carpet - we want a city entirely in vermilion. We who are vulnerable, old, ill, students, workers, we come with vermilion to colour your greyness," the leaflet read.There is no permanent discoloration of the Baroque fountain or the marble statues depicting the Roman Sea God Neptune on a chariot. Francesco Rutelli, Minister of Culture and Tourism in Italy, called the action "an unacceptable and irresponsible act of vandalism" and said that new anti-vandalism laws were needed.On April 22, 2007, a 40-year-old woman from Milan swam naked in the fountain, getting her picture into international newspapers. Tourists throw roughly 3000 euro into the Trevi fountain each day, for good luck. The coins are removed at night and have been used to sponsor a supermarket for Rome's needy citizens.A man has said he has "no regrets" after a romantic e-mail he sent to a woman ended up circulating around the world.Joseph Dobbie, who is in his late 30s and lives in Berkshire, told Kate Winsall in the e-mail: "If I am twice as lucky as I dare to hope, you will find this note charming."After reading the letter, Ms Winsall forwarded the email to her sister, who then sent it on to her friends.  In the message, which contained five hundred and sixteen words, Mr Dobbie commented on how Ms Winsall's smile made "time stand still", going on to say this is the "freshest of my memories". He also said sorry for being drunk at the party the pair met, and he asked Ms Winsall out for a coffee at London's Tate Modern.Due to the email, Mr Dobbie has received hundreds of e-mails and phone calls from people as far away as Australia, America, and South Africa. He has also revealed that he has changed his phone numbers as a result of the situation: "It got to the point where if I hung up either phone they would just ring again," he said. Mr Dobbie, who runs a web-design company, has said he wrote the note in the hope of meeting someone who would be thankful for such an effort. "My mother uses an expression 'it's cool to be cruel these days' and I just don't want that in my life," he said. He said Ms Winsall had been touched by the email, and she also apologised for its universal circulation. "I stood a chance with Kate. Now there’s no way she will say yes," Mr Dobbie said.South Africa's former president Nelson Mandela will turn 90 on July 18, but despite his retirement from the public eye five years ago, his age has never prevented him from being pushed back into the limelight.Political, business and showbiz elite from around the world arrived in London to greet South Africa's long-imprisoned champion of anti-apartheid with a fund-raising concert on Friday, June 27.British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, former United States President Bill Clinton, talk-show queen Oprah Winfrey, Academy Award winning actor Robert De Niro and former James Bond actor Pierce Brosnan were among the stars joining Mandela in the British capital.The Mandela birthday celebration will be capped with a concert at Hyde Park on Friday that will feature Annie Lennox, Queen, Razorlight, Leona Lewis and the Soweto Gospel Choir.The proceeds from the concert will go to Mandela's 46664 Foundation that looks after people suffering from HIV in his beloved South Africa.Mandela was imprisoned for a total of 27 years by a then predominantly white South African government until the abolition of apartheid in the country.In a sweeping change of the political landscape in the wealthiest country in the African continent, Mandela was elected as the first black president of the country in 1994.Mandela said before members of media that, though he may be retired, he still works for his suffering people and he wants to take advantage of his landmark birthday to raise funds for his charity work.The Spanish Benevolent Society announced on Tuesday a DVD edition of the film Little Spain, directed by Artur Balder, is now available on their official website. The film, which summarizes a part of Hispanic immigration in the United States displaying the history of New York City (NYC), is based upon a set of old photographs and testimonies showing a neighborhood called Little Spain in Manhattan, situated at the West End of 14th Street, in the time when it was densely populated by Spaniards and Hispanic immigrants.According to the film's content and press release, Little Spain was populated by Spaniards, Puerto Ricans, and other Hispanic immigrants, located in south Chelsea and West Village, around the west end of 14th Street. The Spaniards tended to live in close proximity to one another; and, in many cases, in close proximityto Spanish-speakers from countries other than Spain — such as Puerto Ricans in New York.In the film, the Spanish-American director and journalist Artur Balder traces the journey of those who left Spain and South America in search of a better life in the United States, describing the story of its most important entrance port, New York City, and the formation of the Little Spain community.The 60 minute, feature-length, documentary looks back at the founding of La Nacional in 1868 and the uptick in migration from Spain following its loss of Cuba in 1898; continuing through to the Hispanic apex in the area, after the Spanish Civil War of 1936–1939, finally charting the community’s sharp decline in the 1970s and 1980s.Well into the 1960s Spanish was still commonly spoken on 14th Street. The film also displays footage of the Santiago Apóstol festival, or St. James Day festival, which died out in the early 1990s as the remnants of the Hispanic community left that part of the city.Artur Balder worked closely with New York's Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), and with the Film Society of the Lincoln Center in order to show the film in NYC. He is currently preparing two new projects: The Reality of the Imaginary, with Nobel prize-winner Mario Vargas Llosa, Cervantes literature award recipient José Manuel Caballero Bonald, and artist Joan Castejón, expected to premier at the MoMA in 2015. The second project being with Armenian–American painter Tigran Tsitoghdzyan and renowned art critic Donald Kuspit.The film shows how Spain contributed to the vast wave of emigration of Europeans to the Americas which, in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, transformed the three continents. The Spaniards were a very small proportion of US immigration compared to some of the other national or ethnic groups of immigrants that came to the United States, such as Italian, Irish, and Polish.Leader of the Manson Family cult Charles Manson, who has tried to get parole 11 times, will have another opportunity to seek it again Wednesday, for his life sentence for his 1969 slayings of actress Sharon Tate and six others.  The 77 year old’s last parole hearing occurred in 2007. Manson didn’t go to his last parole hearing in 2007, saying that he was a "prisoner of the political system." He isn’t expected to attend the Wednesday hearing either, according to a spokesperson at Corcoran State Prison.The district attorney’s office in Los Angeles said it strongly opposed Manson’s release. 	"We consistently (opposed parole) and will continue to do so," spokeswoman Sandi Gibbons said.Manson has hoarded cell phones in his cell, and they were confiscated by the guards. Thirty days were added to his sentence for this offence. In 2009, Manson called people in California, New Jersey, and Florida with an LG flip phone found under his bed.Guards found a second cell phone a year later, and a homemade weapon was found as well. Manson was found guilty of telling a group of his followers to break into the home Roman Polanski and his wife Sharon Tate were renting in a town near Beverly Hills. The followers killed Tate and all six of the people at her home.Despite legislation enacted by Congress and signed into law by President Barack Obama on Wednesday, more than one-third of television stations in the United States are planning to move ahead with the transition to digital television, according to reports.The transition, which was scheduled for February 17, has been pushed back to June 12, 2009, per the DTV Delay Act enacted on Wednesday. However, it left a loophole for broadcasters, allowing them to make the switch anytime between February 17 and June 12."During these challenging economic times, the needs of American consumers are a top priority of my administration," President Obama said in a statement about the DTV Delay Act. "Millions of Americans, including those in our most vulnerable communities, would have been left in the dark if the conversion had gone on as planned, and this solution is an important step forward as we work to get the nation ready for digital TV." On Tuesday, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) said that 681 of the nearly 1,800 television broadcast stations in the United States would cease broadcasting in the old analog format on the original February 17 date.Owners of analog TV sets will need a converter box, for which there has been a US$1.5 billion federal program of $40 coupons for such boxes, which will allow them to view digital programming on analog televisions.The three 'major' networks, ABC, CBS and NBC, have pledged to continue broadcasting in analog, but they only own about 100 of the 1,800 stations.NBC affiliate, WDTN said that it would continue to broadcast public safety information over the analog signals, but that it had done research that showed most viewers were ready for the switch."It's what we've been telling viewers all along," Lisa Barhorst said, explaining why WDTN would go forward with the February 17 switch."Next week is not going to be pretty," Michael Copps, the acting chairman of the FCC, said on Wednesday. "There is going to be consumer dislocation and confusion next week.""Our next few days are pretty much spoken for at the FCC," Copps added. "That's not how I would have hoped to be spending my time as acting chairman.""There's always going to be a certain percentage of people who won't be ready," Wayne Simons, general manager of CBS affiliate WINK-TV, said. "We won't be any more prepared June 12 than we are right now."File:Nixon Mao 1972-02-29.pngThe famous "Mao suit", prominently worn by Chinese leaders in the decades following that country's 1949 revolution, is on the verge of disappearing from China, as the fashion-conscious younger generation shuns the previously common style in favor of the latest apparel offered by modern designers.China's President Hu Jintao was last seen in a green Mao suit while visiting a military base during the Chinese New Year.During the recent National People's Congress gathering in Beijing, Sun Fucai, manager of the official Red Capital clothing store, reported that Mao suits made up only five percent of his sales.One shopkeeper near Beijing, Hu Bixing, sells Mao suits, but hasn't worn his own Mao suit for about ten years. He says they are "...so out of fashion."In China, the style of dress is still worn by older urban dwellers, and many farmers still wear the hat which typically accompanies the suit, called a "Liberation" cap.The Mao suit has a long history in China, going back to 1912, when it became known as a "Zhongshan suit", because Sun Yat-sen, or Sun Zhongshan as he is more commonly known in Chinese, popularized the style as the president of the Republic of China. It was later made famous by the communist Mao Zedong during his reign as the leader of China.One Mao suit owner remembers purchasing what for him was a very expensive version of the suit when it was more popular several decades ago."I haven't worn it in 20 years," said government-employed driver Zhang Xiaotong. "If I put it on today people would look at me like I was a bit odd."The American NBC journalist and Hollywood actress Maria Menounos gave her first official press conference in Greece, as a presenter of the semi-final and the final of the Eurovision Song Contest 2006,[1] which will take place in Athens on the 18th and 20th of May, 2006.Menounos, who is of Greek ancestry and speaks fluent Greek, arrived yesterday in Athens. Today, she talked about the presentation of the song contest and expressed her excitement about being in Greece. She will present the song contest along with the popular Greek pop star Sakis Rouvas.Before official confirmation by Greek National Television (ERT) of Menounos as the co-host of the contest, Greek media had reported the names of the famous actresses Jennifer Aniston and Monica Bellucci as possible presenters.The Eurovision Song Contest 2006 final and semi-final will take place in the Olympic Indoor Hall in Athens.Mark Webber gained his maiden Formula 1 win today at the German Grand Prix, after 130 races.  His Red Bull teammate Sebastian Vettel came in second, with Ferrari's Felipe Massa third.  Reigning champion Lewis Hamilton came last.Webber started from pole position, but touched Rubens Barrichello at the beginning after a slow start.  He received a drive through penalty for this offence, which he served at the end of his fourteenth lap.  This enabled him to join back in to the race in first place.Jenson Button remains first in the championship with 68 points, with Vettel and Webber overtaking Barrichello, taking second and third respectively.After the win, Webber said "I lost Rubens off the start, I thought he had gone to the left but he went right and I banged into him. I had a drive-through and my engineer kept me calm.  It was a difficult winter, Sebastian showed in winter testing what the car could do, so I kept my motivation high and I was hurting a lot. The team had patience with me, everyone in Australia and a few people who doubted me too so hello to them as well. So thank you to everyone who helped me here."Red Bull Racing's Mark Webber won the 2012 British Grand Prix yesterday at Silverstone, having started second on the grid behind Alonso's Ferrari.The second qualifying session of three was red-flagged due to heavy rain; but, despite this, Webber secured second on the grid behind Ferrari's Fernando Alonso, only bettered by under five hundredths of a second. Michael Schumacher, driving for Mercedes, started third with Webber's team mate Sebastian Vettel filling out the second row of the grid in fourth.The race itself started in dry weather, Alonso—running on hard tyres—took an early lead, with Webber—having opted for soft tyres—in pursuit. At the first pit stop, McLaren's Lewis Hamilton stayed out and took the lead, briefly duelling with Alonso before being passed. Shortly after the pitstop, Williams' Pastor Maldonaldo and Sauber's Sergio Perez had a collision, resulting in the Perez being knocked out of the race and Maldonaldo being fined €10,000 (£7,931, $US12,273).Also receiving a fine was Perez' team mate, Kamui Kobayashi. for a dangerous entry into his pit box that injured three of his team's mechanics. According to Kobayashi, "The front wheels locked, I couldn't control the car, and this is how I overshot the pit box."Alonso managed to hold off Webber until the final set of pit stops, but his rules-mandated switch to soft tyres left him unable to compete with the better grip of Webber's Red Bull car. Webber caught him, overtaking Alonso with comparative ease on the 48th lap and going on to cross the line some three seconds ahead of the Spaniard.With this victory, Webber is the second driver to win two races this season. After the race, he described himself as "...absolutely over the moon, absolutely rapt...".Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg has been named the 2010 TIME Person of the Year. He is the second-youngest person to be chosen as Person of the Year. TIME stated in the announcement, "Zuckerberg wired together a twelfth of humanity into a single network, thereby creating a social entity almost twice as large as the U.S." and, "It started out as a lark, a diversion, but it has turned into something real, something that has changed the way human beings relate to one another on a species-wide scale. We are now running our social lives through a for-profit network that, on paper at least, has made Zuckerberg a billionaire six times over."Zuckerberg announced that he had been chosen Person of the Year via a Facebook status update, stating, "Being named as TIME Person of the Year is a real honor and recognition of how our little team is building something that hundreds of millions of people want to use to make the world more open and connected. I'm happy to be a part of that."Others considered for the 2010 Person of the Year award included Hamid Karzai, the president of Afghanistan;  the trapped miners in Chile;  Julian Assange, the founder of whistle-blowing website WikiLeaks;  and the Tea Party movement.With six weeks before the sixth and final Star Wars film saga, Revenge of the Sith, hits theaters worldwide on May 19, the movie studios behind the brand have launched a massive marketing and merchandising campaign. It includes toys aimed at children, collectibles for adults active in fandom and other related merchandise such as science fiction novels based in the Star Wars universe.The 20th Century Fox and Lucasfilm studios make millions of dollars in licensing fees from toy manufacturers and promotional deals with fast-food restaurants, candy and cereal boxes. Even telephone companies are getting into the act. Cingular Wireless will be rolling out a Star Wars-themed promotion and handset downloads within the next few days, according to a company spokesman.Sales from Star Wars tie-in merchandise have brought in a lot of money over the years. Star Wars toy sales themed with The Phantom Menace brought in $500 million. In 2002, Attack of the Clones toy sales were $225 million, according to reports.In January 2003, toymaker Hasbro struck the biggest licensing deal for the brand when it agreed to pay Lucasfilm $200 million in cash and stock for the exclusive rights to make Star Wars-themed toys until 2018. That figure does not include Lucasfilm's percentage of the profit from each toy's sale.Wal-mart and Target, the two largest toy retailers in the U.S. have entire aisles devoted to tie-in Star Wars action figures, full-sized mock ups of light sabers and other more whimsical items. Hasbro is even marketing a "Darth Tater" special edition of its classic Mr. Potato Head.The merchandise also has a literary side. Author Matthew Stover has a monetization of Revenge of the Sith as part of a multi-book deal between Lucasfilm and publisher Random House's science fiction specialty label, Del Rey. Stover's book has consistently been in the Top 50-most ordered books, according to Amazon.com. Other Sith-themed books released within the past few weeks include coffee table picture books and behind-the-scenes documentation detailing the making of the film.The American domestic diva Martha Stewart was today released from prison after a five-month stint at the Alderson Federal Prison Camp in West Virginia. She will continue the rest of her sentence with an electronic tag for the next five months under house arrest. Martha Stewart was sentenced to five months in prison, a further five months under tag and fined US$30,000 for charges of conspiracy and obstruction stemming from insider trading in ImClone shares after the company's wonder drug Erbitux lost its FDA licence.Actor Matt Smith will be the next to portray the Doctor on the BBC television program Doctor Who.  Smith will be the eleventh incarnation of the Doctor, taking over from actor David Tennant who will end his time with the series after filming four editions of the program through 2009.  The Doctor comes from a race of Timelords, and has the ability to "regenerate" and change appearance when his health is failing.  William Hartnell was the first actor to play the Doctor, from 1963–1966.  Smith will become the new occupant of the Doctor's time machine and spacecraft the "TARDIS" in 2010.  John Harper, founder of the Scarborough and Ryedale Astronomical Society and a fan of the series, called the decision to cast 26-year-old Smith in the role "wonderful". MP for Scarborough Robert Goodwill, also a fan of the program, told the Scarborough Evening News: "David Tennant will be a very hard act to follow, but I’m optimistic that the new Doctor will be just as good."Matt Smith, 26, portrayed researcher Danny Foster on the political drama Party Animals, which aired on BBC Two in 2007.  Fellow actor Andrew Buchan from Party Animals told The Guardian: "It's a sublime bit of casting.  He's got that huge hair, a twinkle in his eye — Matt's the king of geek chic.  He is possibly going to be one of the best Doctors we've ever had." After a back injury got in the way of Smith's goal of becoming a footballer, his drama teacher Jerry Hardingham at Northampton School for Boys encouraged him to pursue acting. Though Smith did not audition, Hardingham cast him in a school production of the play Twelve Angry Men. Hardingham later convinced Smith to join the National Youth Theatre, and he landed the lead role in the play Murder in the Cathedral, performing before members of the British Royal Family and other VIPs at the Westminster Cathedral.David Tennant, 37, has portrayed the Doctor on Doctor Who since taking over for Christopher Eccleston in 2005. A major feature of his character's stories involved a romantic interest in his companion in the TARDIS, Rose, played by actress Billie Piper. Tennant announced his exit from the program on October 29, 2008, at the National Television Awards in the United Kingdom, during his speech accepting the outstanding drama performance award at the program. Doctor Who was recognized with the award for most popular drama program. "I love this part, and I love this show so much that if I don't take a deep breath and move on now I never will, and you'll be wheeling me out of the Tardis in my bath chair," said Tennant in his address to the audience in attendance at the Royal Albert Hall. He was previously recognized at the National Television Awards for his role in Doctor Who with the award for most popular actor, in 2006 and 2007.Tennant is currently performing the lead role in Hamlet with the Royal Shakespeare Company, and his engagement at the Novello Theatre in Westminster, London is set to end on January 10. He portrayed Hamlet 60 times with the Royal Shakespeare Company in Stratford-upon-Avon prior to the production's move to London.Now on display at the Fridge Front Gallery in Shoppers World is "Mayfield Exposed!", an exhibit of artworks by high school students.Eighteen students in Mayfield School of the Arts' Visual Arts program participated, from grades nine, ten, and eleven. The exhibit was organized by Stephanie Hagendorn and Paulina Su, both students at Mayfield who were once Visual Arts Brampton teen members.The exhibit highlights a diverse range of subject matter, medias used, and style.Among the sixteen other artists participating are Alana Arvay, Nicole Clouston, Emily Kowalik, Susan Li, Kirsten Marry, Tiffany Modinsar, Jannin Moore, Sarah Patterson, Alexandra Platt, Ricardo Stephen, Paulina Su, Brandie Wilkerson, Kristen Wilkinson, Clint Wilson, James Wu, and Lisa Young.Fridge Front is run by Visual Arts Brampton, and is located on the west side of Shoppers World mall in Brampton. Shoppers World at 499 Main Street South, at the corner of Steeles Avenue.The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) defines McJob as  "an unstimulating, low-paid job with few prospects." The McDonald's fast-food giant has begun a campaign to have the word removed from the dictionary, or to have its definition changed, by lobbying British MPs. The company has also set up an online petition with the slogan "Change the definition. Sign the petition."Clive Betts, MP for Sheffield Attercliffe agrees with the restaurant chain. Betts has tabled a Commons motion on the issue. The motion has so far gained the support of 15 other MPs.The compilers of the OED point out that they merely record the description of how the word is used, rather than prescribe how it should be used. The term, McJob, has been in usage at least 20 years, they say. It was popularised in 1991  in Douglas Coupland's novel Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture as one of the margin definitions. Here it was described as "a low-pay, low-prestige, low-dignity, low benefit, no-future job in the service sector. Frequently considered a satisfying career choice by people who have never held one."In 2003, Merriam-Webster included McJob in the Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, and defined it as "a low-paying job that requires little skill and provides little opportunity for advancement." This definition prompted a letter from then CEO Jim Cantalupo who said it was "an inaccurate description of restaurant employment" and "slap in the face" of restaurant employees.American musician Meat Loaf has canceled the remaining dates of his 2007 European tour on Tuesday. This decision was announced less than a week after the performer prematurely ended a concert in Newcastle upon Tyne.Earlier reports attributed Meat Loaf's medical problems at Newcastle to a sore throat. This week's announcements indicate that the rocker sustained a vocal cord cyst that requires weeks of treatment and possibly surgery.Despite Meat Loaf's indication at the Newcastle concert that his career might have ended, a most recent statement on his fan site declared that he would be "coming back strong in 2008" with hopes of new concerts following treatment.Many media outlets traditionally deliberately spread hoaxes on April Fools' Day, including notable quality sources such as National Geographic and Science.The popular British tabloid The Sun wrote that French President Nicolas Sarkozy is to undergo stretch surgery to make him taller than his wife, Italian artist and model Carla Bruni. The report claimed the 5 foot 5 inch leader would be made 5 inches taller in one year using a method by Israeli professor Ura Schmuck. The Sun noted that during his visit to Britain last week, Sarkozy had high-heel shoes while his wife wore a pair of flat pumps.The Guardian on the other hand ran an article that suggested that Carla would head an initiative by Prime Minister Gordon Brown to bring more glamour, good taste and sophistication to the U.K. general population. This would involve collaboration with Marks & Spencer for high-street fashion and Jamie Oliver for meals and wine.BBC News had real-looking footage of flying penguins fronted by documentary host Terry Jones, which were actually an advertisement for its new iPlayer.Mel Gibson made anti-semitic remarks after being pulled over for drunk driving, having a blood alcohol level of .12. After being pulled over, Gibson berated the police, calling them 'motherfuckers' and saying he would 'fuck them'.  The police report also said "Gibson almost continually [sic] threatened me saying he 'owns Malibu' and will spend all of his money to 'get even' with me."  Gibson went on to say "Fucking Jews... the Jews are responsible for all the wars in the world," and then he asked the deputy: "Are you a Jew?"  He also is reported to have referred to a female police officer as "sugar tits".On Saturday, Gibson released this statement. [1]A memorial service has taken place for Australian actor Heath Ledger, who died January 22 in New York. Hollywood celebrities and many other loyal fans bid farewell to the well known actor. His death has been deemed accidental by the New York City Medical Examiner and was attributed to a toxic mixture of prescription drugs and pain killers. The star died in his Manhattan apartment last month.The service was held at Penrhos College in Perth, Australia and was attended by over 100 people, although the actual funeral was only attended by Ledger's close family. Before the funeral, Heath's father, Kim Ledger, said that "the funeral will be very, very private and there will only be 10 people there, immediate family and nobody else."In addition to family, the memorial service was attended by actors and actresses who have worked with Ledger, including Cate Blanchett who starred with Ledger in the Bob Dylan bio-flick, I'm Not There. Blanchett spoke of the times she shared with Ledger in New York and Los Angeles. The Other speakers included his parents, sister and Neil Armfield, a director of Ledger's last Australian film, Candy. An emotional Williams, was wearing dark glasses and a white dress with black trim, she was not accompanied by her daughter Matilda. Williams walked in clutching the arm of Ledger's older sister, Kate.Williams issued a statement following Ledger's death saying, "My heart is broken. I am the mother of the most tender-hearted, high-spirited, beautiful little girl who is the spitting image of her father. All that I can cling to is his presence inside her that reveals itself every day."The Ledger family asked the media not to visit the funeral because they claim they will find it easier to cope without the media present.  Ledger's father said, "It's a pretty sad time. We're  finding it difficult to cope by ourselves, let alone cope with everybody around the world." He continued, however, by saying that the family does, "really appreciate the outpouring and the emotional support from all over the globe."Ledger starred in the 2005 movie Brokeback Mountain which earned him Academy Award and Golden Globe Award nominations for Best Actor. It was on the set of Brokeback Mountain where he met Michelle Williams and their relationship began. He additionally starred in the 2000 movie The Patriot with Mel Gibson.American metal singer Ronnie James Dio died today at the age of 67, as announced by his wife, Wendy. Dio passed at 07:45 (CST) (13:45 UTC) at the Mayo Clinic, an American disease treatment center, after a two-year fight with stomach cancer that caused him to stop singing while he received treatment. "Ronnie knew how much he was loved by all...Please know he loved you all and his music will live on forever," added his wife in a statement on Dio's website.Dio (born Ronnie James Padavona) was born in July 10, 1942 in the American city of Portsmouth, New Hampshire.  He was most noted for his high pitched vocals and lyrical tales involving battles and themes of good versus evil.He performed with several hard rock and metal groups, but he was most notable for his first act, when he joined as singer of the British metal group Black Sabbath after lead singer and frontman Ozzy Osbourne left the band in 1979. Before Black Sabbath he performed with several less successful bands, including Rainbow, led by former Deep Purple's Ritchie Blackmore, and Elf.He also had a very successful solo career under the simple name "Dio", and had recently reunited with former Black Sabbath band mates under the moniker Heaven and Hell. Some of Dio's hit songs were Holy Diver, Neon Knights, and The Last In Line.One of Mexico's most successful cartoonists, Gabriel Vargas, died yesterday at the age of 95. His death was announced by the National Council of the Arts and Culture. Vargas had been ill for several years before his death, but no cause of death has yet been given. Vargas's most successful comic strip was "La Familia Burron" which he started in 1937. The strip looked at a low-income family struggling with everyday life. It sold up to 500,000 copies per week until the 1970s.Later in his career he won several awards for his work, including Mexico's National Journalism Prize in 1983 and the National Sciences and Arts prize in 2003. There was a memorial viewing for Vargas at a funeral home in Mexico City yesterday.Dr. Conrad Murray has been charged with involuntary manslaughter in connection to the death of Michael Jackson, who Murray was doctor to. Dr. Murray was with the singer when he died on June 25 last year.The doctor is alleged to have acted "unlawfully and without malice". The prosecution's complaint said that when Dr. Murray gave Michael Jackson a powerful sedative to attempt to assist Jackson with his sleeping, he acted "without the caution and circumspection required". During rehearsals for a series of return concerts planned in London, England last year, the entertainer had employed the doctor to be his personal physician for the spring. If convicted of the charges, Dr. Murray could be imprisoned for up to four years.According to Ed Chernoff, Dr. Murray's lawyer, he will not plead guilty. Speaking on Monday, before the charge was filed, Chernoff stated: "We'll make bail, we'll plead not guilty and we'll fight like hell." The coroner's office in Los Angeles, California, US reported that the death of Michael Jackson was a homicide, with the cause being an overdose of sedatives.Michael Jackson's doctor Conrad Murray has posted a one minute video on entertainment site TMZ — and now YouTube — so that he can reach out to his loved ones because he can't contact them by phone or by e-mail.  In the video he has said: "I have told the truth and I have faith that the truth will prevail."I want to thank all of my patients and friends who have sent me such kind e-mails, letters and messages to let me know of your support and prayers for me and my family. I haven't been able to thank you personally, which you know is not normal for me. Your messages give me strength and courage and keep me going. They mean the world to me. Please don't worry. As long as I keep God in my heart and you in my life I will be fine."Law enforcement sources investigating the death of Jackson have claimed that Conrad was to be arrested and charged with manslaughter within the next week. Another source has told Fox News that the former dermatologist of the star is also to face criminal charges. Fox News have also said that investigators had hoped to charge Murray with a more serious crime than manslaughter - second-degree murder.I have not authorized anyone to speak or hold press conferences on behalf of Michael Jackson or his family.  A gag order is in effect which the defense team will continue to honor.The statement follows the comment made by Jackson's spokeswoman Raymone Bain, who stated that she was forced to appear at the courthouse where Jackson's trial was being held.  The statement came after a reporter accused Bain of appearing at a courthouse press conference when on unfavorable terms with Meserau.  Thursday will begin day five of jury deliberations in the trial which the pop star is accused of sexually molesting a thirteen-year-old boy back in 2003.Michael Jackson's This Is It, a documentary film based on world-famous singer Michael Jackson rehearsing for his last tour before his untimely death, will be premiered in at least 15 cinemas in cities all over the world simultaneously.The film is due to premiere on October 27 and October 28. The world cities may be in different time zones with different dates but they will all be premiering the film at exactly the same time. One such premiere location is Los Angeles, in the US state of California, which will have the film starting at 1800 PT. Another simultaneity is the Odeon Leicester Square cinema in London, England, which will start at 0100 GMT on October 27.Other locations holding concurrent premieres are the South African city of Johannesburg, New York City in New York, German capital Berlin, Russian capital city Moscow, Japanese capital Tokyo, Australian city Sydney, French capital Paris, South Korean city Seoul, and Rio de Janeiro, a large city in Brazil.Michael Jackson died on June 25, 2009 aged 50, after suffering from a cardiac arrest. The movie will feature some of the rehearsal footage made in the weeks before his death. In total, there will be at least 25 cinemas premiering the film, but not all of them will be released simultaneously. Sony Pictures, the film production company, have yet to announce the other cities involved. Tickets for the film will be available to purchase from Sunday, September 27. The film is directed by Kenny Ortega, who previously directed all the High School Musical films. He also directed some significant Michael Jackson events, such as his This Is It concert and Jackson's memorial service.Jeff Blake, chairman of worldwide marketing and distribution for Sony Pictures, said: "Michael Jackson has an army of fans everywhere around the world... we are giving the audiences an incredible opportunity to join together in celebration of Michael Jackson's incredible career."The jury hearing the Michael Jackson trial has come to a final decision today, drawing to a close the long and widely hyped trial centering on the famous performer.On this June 13, 2005, the jury in the Michael Jackson trial announced a verdict of not guilty on all 10 counts. The charges which were brought up against Jackson included:One count of conspiracy to commit child abduction, false imprisonment or extortion:  Not guiltyFour counts of lewd acts with a child under 14:  Not guiltyOne count of attempted lewd act on child under 14: Not guiltyFour counts of giving alcohol to enable child molestation:  Not guiltyEmotional jurors of the case, some shedding a tear or two at the verdict's reading, stated that while they initially did not expect the decision to be made by today, they all felt that the decision made was the correct one, and that they indeed had more than 'reasonable doubt' about the claims against the performer. For a juror to return a verdict of not guilty, the US judicial system dictates that they should have reasonable doubt about whether or not the individual has performed the alleged actions. The jurors said that they did this, also commenting that they kept a close eye on the instruction pages provided to them by the judge, often referring back to them when discussing evidence in the case which contributed to the final outcome.Jackson left the courtroom without comment to reporters, and has remained silent since.The pre-trial hearings in the trial of the pop singer Michael Jackson have begun the process of jury selection. An initial jury selection of 4,000 people has been narrowed down to 250 by Judge Rodney Melville and the prosecution and defence attorneys.The process of selecting the final 12 jurors and eight stand-by-jurors will continue on February 14th, following the death in the family of Jackson's lead defence lawyer.Jackson, 46, is accused of child molestation in a case which is expected to last up to six months.Pop star Michael Jackson was caught by photographers dressed in women's clothing in a shopping mall in the Gulf state of Bahrain.  Jackson was dressed in a black abaya (a traditional full-length robe), a veil covering his face, dark sunglasses and gloves.  Jackson was accompanied by three young, Western-looking children, their faces covered with black veils, and an adult woman wearing an abaya over jeans, her face partly covered, and bodyguards.After Jackson was recognized, he reportedly said "Please, No!" and the unidentified woman asked photographers to back off.  Photographers continued to take pictures while mall security guards escorted Jackson and his entourage out through a back door, where they got into a white Lexus with darkened windows.  A picture published by The Australian shows an adult completely covered in black, holding the hand of a young child whose face is covered.  Mall officials confirmed that it was Michael Jackson.Jackson has been a guest of the royal family since June 2004, after he was acquitted of sexually molesting young cancer patients who visited his California ranch, Neverland, in 2003.Martin Dinnes, the owner of Dinnes Memorial Veterinary Hospital, alleges that Michael Jackson owes him over $91,602 in veterinary bills.The pop star's exotic animals were looked after by the veterinarian at the Neverland ranch, where Jackson has not lived in since the last child molestation trial in June 2005.Dinnes helped Michael acquire animals for his zoo which include flamingoes, giraffes, elephants and orangutans.His lawyer, Brenton Horner, stated that Dinnes filed this lawsuit with great reluctance. "He has a lot of admiration for Michael. This is just a business matter."A hearing was set for May 2.Dubbed as the 'King of Pop music', Michael Jackson says he will go one last concert tour in the United Kingdom beginning in July. Jackson had said after a performance at the O2 Arena in London, England on Wednesday that he calls the tour his "final curtain calls"."These will be my final shows ... performances in London. When I say this is it, I mean this is it. I'll be performing the songs my fans want to hear. This is it, this is really it, this is the final curtain call," said Jackson after the concert. Tim Leiweke, CEO of Anschutz Entertainment Group (AEG), earlier told Billboard that the tour in the UK will consist of somewhere between 20-25 concerts, all to be held at the O2, starting July 8."We spent two years working with Michael trying to get him comfortable with this," said Leiweke to Billboard, who also said that Jackson's health is not an issue. "Despite everything you read about him, he was fine. The man took a physical for us to go do these concerts". Jackson's last major concert tour was in 2001. It is also the first major public appearance he will be making since 2005, when a jury aquitted him in a trial where he was charged with child molestation.A tribute concert for Michael Jackson has been postponed and relocated.The concert was originally due to take place on September 26, 2009, just outside the Schoenbrunn Palace in Vienna, Austria. However, the concert has been relocated to the Wembley Stadium in London, England. The date has also been changed to June 2010. Michael Jackson's brother Jermaine, who had organised the concert, said: "Numerous stars were just not able to change their schedules to make a live appearance at the Vienna event possible." Representatives for Mary J. Blige, Natalie Cole and Chris Brown announced that none of these artists could make it to the concert.Jermaine Jackson stated: "Many artists and performers who I have spoken to personally told me that it would be a great honour to be part of this memorial concert for my late brother. However, due to the short time frame it was not possible for many of them to change their schedules so that they could be on stage in Vienna on 26 September."Therefore we decided, after careful consideration, to change the date of the tribute concert to June 2010 – just a few weeks before the first anniversary of his untimely death. Instead of eight weeks we now have eight months to prepare. Some of the stars who were not able to participate in the Vienna concert, but expressed their wish to participate in this event, will be able to perform at Wembley Stadium in London in June 2010," Jackson explained. Michael Jackson himself had performed in the original Wembley Stadium 15 times. Jermaine said that he could not understand why the Austrian media were ridiculing the acts, stating: "When artists who have won eight Grammy Awards and sold millions of records around the world and are able to sell out large stadiums are then called 'B-list artists', are made fun of and generally disrespected, is something I just cannot understand. If these artists are not welcome in Vienna, London is certainly more than happy to have them."A spokesperson for Michael Jackson's family has confirmed that the funeral of Michael Jackson will be postponed from what would have been his 51st birthday—August 29.  Family spokesman Ken Sunshine has said that the date for the burial of the King of Pop would be pushed back to September 3.  The reason for the change of arrangements was not specified.Details of the burial place and the original date were released earlier this week, after speculation about his final burial place.Ken Sunshine has also said that the interring that will take place in the Forest Lawn Memorial in Glendale, Los Angeles, and will be private with only close friends and family being invited to see the ceremony. The family are currently trying to keep his burial location unknown.Neverland Valley Ranch, owned by Michael Jackson, is to be sold at auction on March 19, 2008, unless Jackson pays over US$24 million.Financial Title Company, the trustee of his Santa Barbara County, California, home and amusement park, has foreclosed on the property.  They notified Jackson of the foreclosure and sale on Monday.  Jackson had only just recently paid an overdue property tax bill of $600,000.The court filing, addressed to Jackson, says, "You are in default of a deed of trust ... Unless you take action to protect your property it may be sold at a public sale." Fox News published the filing.The foreclosure includes the ranch and all possessions on the property, inside or out.The foreclosure auction will take place in front of the Santa Barbara County Courthouse in Santa Barbara. Jackson has until then to pay $24,525,906.61 he owes the title company.In 2006, Jackson refinanced previous loans that had been bought up by Fortress Investment Group. The $300-million loan was secured with the aid of Sony Music Entertainment. However, the Neverland property was not part of that deal.Jackson has not lived at Neverland since June 30, 2005, when he moved to Bahrain after a rape charge and subsequent acquittal.Michael Moore's controversial new documentary SiCKO opened to strong box office numbers in limited release over the weekend. The biting and sometimes humorous expose of America's health system earned weekend totals of US$4.5 Million on 441 screens, the second highest opening weekend numbers for a documentary ever, after Moore's own Fahrenheit 9/11.This follows last weekend's 'sneak preview' screenings of the film in 43 major markets. Fox News reports that all of these screenings were sold out. The latest documentary from Academy Award and Cannes Film Festival winning filmmaker Moore earned US$10,200 per screen, second in the weekend averages, and ninth in total sales. Ratatouille was the weekend's number one film with US$11,935 per screen (3940 screens) and top earnings of $47 Million. After only one weekend's limited release, SiCKO is now the fifth most successful political  documentary ever, behind Fahrenheit 9/11,  Al Gore's An Inconvenient Truth, Bowling for Columbine, and Roger and Me. Four of the top five are now by documentarian Moore.SiCKO first opened at the AMC Lincoln Square in New York City. Fox News reported that the first screening's take was "possibly a record for an exclusive showing." Moore attended one of the Lincoln Square screenings; his presence not known until he revealed himself during the standing ovation that the film garnered. The ensuing melee of enthusiastic fans resulted in a NYC fire marshal being called in to clear the theater, with Moore then participating in an informal question and answer session on the street.Moore has appeared on numerous talk shows in support of the film, which The Weinstein Company will roll out to 200 more theaters this week.A number of reports confirm that Michael Moore's forthcoming documentary has been leaked onto Peer-to-peer networks. This is the second pre-release leak in a month of a film from Lionsgate Studios.The movie, SiCKO contrasts the U.S. healthcare system with that of several other countries and includes a trip to Cuba for which Moore is being investigated. The investigation by the Office of Foreign Assets Control within the United States Department of the Treasury is looking into whether Moore has violated United States embargo against Cuba, which has been in effect since 1962 and codified in 1992.Moore has, according to agency reports, stored a copy of the original film in Canada as a result of the Federal investigation by the Treasury department. His concern is that an attempt may be made to confiscate the section of the film shot in Cuba.According to Associated Press, David Boies, attorney for Michael Moore, believes the targeting of Moore for his unauthorised trip to Cuba may be the result of the criticism of the current administration in such films as Fahrenheit 9/11.Tuesday Moore was seen at two pre-release screenings of the movie in Sacramento, California. His audiences were a group of politicians and a number of nurses, each attending their own screening.The movie opens with a cold statistic that approximately 45 million Americans are without healthcare insurance. It continues by giving examples of people with healthcare insurance who have been denied all or part of their treatment for technical reasons. As well as getting thousands of responses from people who had problems with their insurance he received information from people working inside Health maintenance organizations and ex-employees who claim the system is set up to provide the minimum care and the maximum profit to the company.The segment of the film that triggered the Federal investigation is his trip to Cuba with a number of people who relate their experiences with healthcare. Among these are several volunteer workers who worked at ground zero following the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center. These people claim to have been refused aid from the fund set up for 9/11 workers and were thus unable to afford their required treatment.  After an attempt to obtain treatment at Guantanamo Bay detention facility - which Moore described as the only place on U.S. soil where there is "socialised medicine" - they seek out a hospital in Havana. All are checked and treated free of charge. One woman discovers that an inhaler for her respiratory problems costs approximately five cents in Cuba compared to 120 dollars in the U.S.Health insurance companies, speaking through their trade group America’s Health Insurance Plans (AHIP), are critical of the film, which calls for healthcare similar to that of Canada, France, or the UK. "We need a uniquely American solution in which the public and private sectors work together to make sure that everyone has high-quality, affordable healthcare," said Karen Ignagni, president of AHIP, on Wednesday.The film is scheduled for wide release in the U.S. and Canada on June 29, 2007.Seven-time world Formula One racing champion Michael Schumacher announced his plans to replace Felipe Massa in the second Ferrari car in the FIA Formula One 2009 European Grand Prix in Valencia, Spain.Massa was recently injured after a spring got loose from Rubens Barricello's car and hit his head in the Hungarian GP. Schumacher is expected to replace Massa for at least one Formula One event until the recovery of the Brazilian driver. Schumacher will get ready for his return using a special training program, checking his recovery after he fell off a motorcycle.The last time the "Red Baron" drove the Ferrari car was more than a year ago, in April 2008. If Schumacher starts in Valencia, it would be his first GP with Kimi Räikkönen as his team mate.Massa and Schumacher were team mates during the latter's last season and the two are said to be close friends. Massa was in a medically induced coma for several days but took his first steps today and can speak coherently; it was also confirmed today that he can still see out of both eyes. Concern does still remain about potential damage to his left eye. Massa was due to leave intensive care Wednesday and may be walking fully within ten days, although doctors remain cautious in their outlook for the Brazilian, who was runner-up in last year's season.There were different speculations about Massa's replacement: most notable and curious was that the double world championship winner Fernando Alonso was to negotiate with Ferrari after the Renault team was penalized to skip the GP on Alonso's home soil. Alonso was out of the recent Hungarian GP just after the first pit-stop cause of a loose wheel nut of the right front wheel. This incident not only stripped Renault of the possible podium finish, but also caused that penalty. To note, it was also the Hungarian GP of 2006 when Alonso was in the lead for most of the race, but ended it right after his pit-stop because off a badly attached right front wheel. That race was unexpectedly won by Jenson Button, who is now the championship leader.In other news related to Formula One BMW Sauber announced plans to retire from the sport at the end of this season. FOTA says it will try to help the team to stay in Formula One, which could possibly mean moves similar to those when Honda was withdrawn from Formula One at the end of the previous season.London, England — At the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) press conference Monday, Sir Philip Craven indicated the goal of the IPC is to grow disability sport globally. At the same time, according to Paul Bird of the Oceania Paralympic Committee, the Micronesian of Oceania has been left completely behind by the Paralympic movement.According to a member of the Oceania Paralympic Committee, the IPC recognizes fewer countries than the International Olympic Committee, with IPC rules prohibiting countries from becoming full members of the organization if their independence is not clear. This rule dates back to the organization's founding and no serious attempts have been made to change it since.  As many Micronesian countries are not viewed as independent countries, they cannot join.  This includes Guam, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, Palau, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The only eligibility route for elite athletes with disabilities in these countries to the Paralympic Games is through their home country, which for most of the Micronesian region is the United States; they have to compete against better-funded and better-supported competitors to earn national team selection. No disability sport competitors from Micronesia were chosen to represent the United States at the 2012 Summer Paralympics.This problem is not unique to Micronesia, with the United States territories of Puerto Rico and United States Virgin Islands not being represented as members of the United States team in 2012.The future of Microsoft's Flight Simulator series is uncertain after the company fired all of Flight Simulator's developers this January. Microsoft still insists that it is "committed" to the series, although the ACES studio, which develops the simulator, was closed when the company shed 5000 jobs.Nels Anderson, the founder of FlightSim.com, a MSFS enthusiast website, called it a "dark day" for the simulation market. "Microsoft have apparently cancelled a 27 year franchise. Flight sims were one of the few things about Microsoft people actually liked. It made them money and had an enormous following. To cancel something like that is an amazing thing to do," he said in an interview with the BBC.Derek Davis, who is the editor of the PC Pilot Magazine, however, said that there could be a bright side to the news: "I don't know what the eventual fate of Microsoft's Flight Simulator series will be, but I think we're going to see a rise in sales and an increase in third-party development. There is now some stability to be had — we're all going to be using FSX for some time — and that is going to make it far easier for developers to produce new aircraft," he said. Flight Simulator X (FSX) is the current edition in the series.The Flight Simulator series is possibly the longest-running computer game series ever, with the first version of the game released back in 1982. It is known, not only for its official releases, but also for its dedicated fan base, which has produced large amounts of third-party addons for the game.Prior to the dissolution of the ACES studio, an eleventh version of Flight Simulator was planned for release in about a year and a half. Also in development at the studio at the time of its closure was Microsoft Train Simulator 2, which was expected to be released this year.Microsoft Global announced that Xbox 360 first-person shooter Halo 3 launched world-wide during September 25 to 27. This launch of Halo 3 focuses on strategy, shooting, co-operating, and global linking between different languages.In the United States, more than 10,000 retailers opened their stores at midnight on September 25. They provided a Halo 3 painted car as a grand prize. Gamers lined up for hours in excitement for the long awaited game to come out.Shane Kim (Director of Microsoft Games Studio) awarded the first gamer who lined up for the launch at the Best Buy store in New York City, taking pictures with Jim Cush who dressed as "Master Chief", and remarked that other 37 countries will play this game with different languages except English, with the sales of 10 million game copies.In Taiwan, after Microsoft's local division separately invited Taiwanese Band "Mayday" last Sunday (September 16) and SBL Yulon Dinosaur Team Players (Hsueh-lin Li and Chih-chung Chen) 4 days ago (September 22) at the "Halo 3 Pre-launch Carnival" in Taiwan, the company invited famous model Ruru Lin from Catwalk Co., Ltd. for the launch, and held a friendship match with 4 players who lined up from first place to fourth place.Meanwhile, Microsoft Hong Kong held a "Halo 3: Ultimate Collection Exhibition" launch activity to show the Halo series figures, posters, game packs, and history. The first Chinese version of "Halo 3: Midnight Ultimate Madness" was published prior to Taiwan's and USA's release, at the Grand Century Place in Mong Kok, Kowloon in Hong Kong.According to data released by Microsoft, you really are connected by approximately six degrees with the average person on this planet, the Washington Post reported Saturday.Eric Horvitz and Jure Leskovec set out to prove a popular theory, and they did, almost."What's the distance between you and any random person on the planet? That's the kind of result we were seeking," Microsoft researcher Eric Horvitz told ABC's Good Morning America."We've been able to put our finger on the social pulse of human connectivity — on a planetary scale — and we've confirmed that it's indeed a small world." Microsoft researcher Eric Horvitz told Agence France-Presse."Over the next few decades, new kinds of computing applications, from smart networks to automated translation systems, will help make the world even smaller, with closer social connections and deeper understanding among people."Multiple press agencies are reporting that Microsoft's research on over 30 billion text messages from June 2006 averages to 6.6 degrees between any two people on Earth.ABC News reports that the 30 billion messages were sent between 180 million people. This equates to roughly half of the instant messaging traffic during that month."To me, it was pretty shocking," Horvitz told The Washington Post. "What we're seeing suggests there may be a social connectivity constant for humanity. People have had this suspicion that we are really close. But we are showing on a very large scale that this idea goes beyond folklore."According to the BBC, the concept of "six degrees of separation" or "Small world phenomenon" was the product of research done by American Stanley Milgram in 1967 when he mailed letters from himself to a Boston stock broker. Instead of mailing them direct, he instead sent 160 people in Kansas the letters, asking them to send them to someone who might know the person in Boston. It took an average of six mailings, thus six degrees of separation. Research done in 2006 reported a 95% failure rate in these tests.The theory was popularized in the 1990s when college students would play a trivia game trying to link actor Kevin Bacon with any one other answer. The person to do so in the shortest number of links won.In 2003 another similar experiment was undertaken, this time via e-mail. 24,163 volunteers tried to send a message to one of 18 people all over the world. The Post reports that only 384 of the 24,163 chains were connected. That equates to about 98.5% failure rate. An estimate was made at 5 to 7 degrees of separation."To our knowledge, this is the first time a planetary-scale social network has been available to validate the well-known 'six degrees of separation' finding by Travers and Milgram," the researchers said according to The Washington Post.The research found that 78% per connected by 7 steps or less, but some were connected by as many as 29 degrees of separation, the Post said. The most common Microsoft Messenger user is in America, Europe or Asia.Prior to the September 25 launch of "Halo 3" Microsoft Taiwan held "Mayday Fans Meeting" last Sunday (September 16) and "SBL Players Meeting" today, and set experiencing area at PAMC KMall in Taipei on continuous holidays of the Moon Festival (September 22 to 25).A famous Taiwanese Band "Mayday" were invited by Microsoft Taiwan for the voice casting of "Halo 3" and they wrote a theme song named "Zhua Kuang (English Meaning: Crazy)" and produced its special MV with conjunction of "Halo 3" promotional videos. This special video is available before September 25 in the 5th Square of Station Front Metro Mall in Taipei.Not only "Mayday Fans Meeting" at September 16, Microsoft Taiwan also invited Yulon Dinosaur Basketball Team players Hsueh-lin "Iverson" Li and Chih-chung "Virus" Chen have friendship matches with a 17-year-old girl player Shih-ching Wang. Ms. Wang showed her performance at the friendship matches with 3-straight-sets speedily winnings.After the friendship matches, Microsoft Taiwan held a charity bidding event with a Xbox 360 console signed by Hsueh-lin Li and Chih-chung Chen and donated the charity earnings to Taiwan Fund for Children and Families. With the global launch of "Halo 3", Microsoft Taiwan helped the disadvantaged and poor children with this charity bidding.After the pre-launch series, Microsoft Taiwan will invite Ruru Wei-ru Lin at the launch day of "Halo 3" on September 25 at PAMC KMall in Taipei.During the fourth day of the 2008 Taipei Game Show, held at the Taipei World Trade Center, visitors voted for their favourite participating companies and games at the "Popular Game Voting" competition.According to the organizer Taipei Computer Association (TCA), this is the first-ever vote. It has two main categories, quality of the game itself and quality of the presentation at the convention. In the game section there were four categories: leisure game, PC console game, online RPG, and upcoming games. Balancing the vote, booth setup and stage activity were included. If a company won an award in this category, its notoriety is expected to rise and the company could see a great deal of opportunities to market games or its brand to the world.Aside from the presentation class, winners from the game class were decided by votes from on-site, local gaming magazines, and the official website.In the end, Microsoft Taiwan won all of the categories of the popular presentation class. In the game voting class, International Games Systems Inc. (IGS) won both popular leisure and upcoming game categories. Soft-World and Softstar Corp. respectively won popular online RPG and PC console game categories.Announced yesterday in Sydney, the shortlist for Australia's most prestigious literary award, the Miles Franklin Literary Award, includes only women for the first time in the award's history.  The award had been criticized in the past for its exclusion of women on the short list, with no women appearing on it in 2009 and 2011.This year's authors on the short list include Romy Ash for Floundering, Michelle de Kretser for Questions of Travel, Annah Faulkner for The Beloved, Drusilla Modjeska for The Mountain, and Carrie Tiffany for Mateship with Birds.  The winner gets a cash prize of AU$60,000.Judges said the shortlist selection was based on the quality of the literature, with gender not playing a role in their decision processes. Richard Neville, a librarian at the State Library of New South Wales and judge, is quoted by the Sydney Morning Herald saying, "People will probably think this is a riposte to the Stella Prize, [..] But I've judged this for four years, including the infamous year of the 'sausage fest', and we always try to view the books as literature. We felt the books on the shortlist selected themselves."File:Brian Castro2.jpgThe longlist, announced in the last week of March, included two men out of ten total listed authors: Brian Castro for Street to Street, and Thomas Keneally for The Daughters of Mars. Perceived discrimination against women's writers in Australian literary circles led to the creation this year of the Stella Prize. The chair of the Australia Council’s Literature Board Sophie Cunningham played an integral role in creating the Stella Prize, modeled after the United Kingdom's Orange Prize.  The award derives its name from Miles Franklin's birth name, Stella Maria Sarah Miles Franklin.The winner is scheduled to be announced on June 19 in Canberra.File:Marcel Marceau.gifThe French mime Marcel Marceau died at age 84 yesterday in Paris. Emmanuel Vacca, Marceau's former assistant, announced his death on a French-Info radio station. Media reports also indicated his death was announced by his family.Marceau appeared on stage for over 50 years without uttering a word. But, the off-stage chatty Marceau once said, "Never get a mime talking. He won't stop." His last known international tour was in 2005.Prime Minister Francois Fillon said, "The mime Marceau will forever be the character of Bip."Marceau was a French Jew who survived the Holocaust. Marceau was born as Marcel Mangel in Strasbourg, France on March 22, 1923.No details about the cause of death or the funeral arrangements were immediately clear.An advert by fast food restaurant Burger King has been banned from British television over claims that it is misleading. The campaign for the new TenderCrisp chicken burger received two complaints over the fact that the burger appears significantly larger on the advert than in real life. The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) investigated the complaints and purchased three burgers from a Burger King restaurant. They reported that both the thickness and the height were "considerably less" than in the advertisement. The ASA also commented on the actor, stating, "[w]e also examined the size of the burgers in the hands of an average-sized man and considered that they did not fill the hands to the same extent as the burger featured in the advert. We concluded that the visuals in the advert were likely to mislead viewers as to the size and composition of the product."Burger King responded to the complaints, saying that the advert needed to make all the ingredients in the product clearly visible.  Despite the company's defense, it has been ruled that the advert will not be shown again in its current form.Kristina Higgins, who won the title of Miss Georgia 2009 Saturday evening at the RiverCenter for the Performing Arts in downtown Columbus, gave up the crown almost as quickly as she received it. On Sunday morning, Emily Cook, the first runner-up, received word that she would be the new Miss Georgia 2009, and would compete for the title of Miss America next January in Las Vegas, Nevada.Higgins, 24, having previously won the title of Miss Capital City, beat out 34 other pageant hopefuls to take the crown, only to relinquish it privately the next morning. In a rather confusing twist, Higgins had competed twice before in the Miss Georgia pageant, placing second just last year.In a prepared statement via the Miss Georgia Scholarship Pageant, Higgins said, "Due to my current job responsibilities as a middle school teacher and the responsibilities and time commitment as Miss Georgia, I have decided to not fulfill the duties of Miss Georgia 2009. I am grateful for the opportunity to have been chosen as Miss Georgia and fully support the system and wish Emily Cook the best of luck." Higgins is a 2008 graduate from Georgia College & State University in Milledgeville, receiving her degree in special education.Cook, 22, won the title of Miss Cobb County before eventually placing second in Saturday's competition, and now takes over duties for Higgins effective immediately. A 2005 graduate of Kennesaw Mountain High School, Cook graduated this May with a degree in music from the University of Miami, and will be pursuing a law degree this year at the University of Georgia in Athens. Cook was scheduled to make her first televised appearance as Miss Georgia 2009 on Sunday evening, during WTVM's six o'clock news.During Hurricane Camille in 1969, a 72-foot tugboat named the East Point washed ashore on Gulfport's West Beach. Lucille Moody, a beachfront property owner renamed the boat the S.S. Hurricane Camille and built a gift shop behind it, after moving it on specially built railroad tracks. The boat and gift shop became a popular attraction for tourists visiting the Mississippi Gulf Coast.But on August 29, 2005 Hurricane Katrina came ashore pushing a 20-plus foot storm surge leaving mostly everything on the beachfront destroyed. Only a few things were standing including the Biloxi Lighthouse, the Friendship Oak, and the S.S. Hurricane Camille. Lucille Moody decided not to rebuild the gift shop, so there the S.S. Camille stands, a rusted hulk on a beachfront that is quickly rebuilding.People want it gone, suggesting it is an "eyesore", but others suggest this historic object be preserved, especially after the loss of historic sites including Grass Lawn and Tullis-Toledo Manor. They suggest a coat of paint and some repairs could make the boat much more appealing.Held Sunday, the first annual Brampton Day at Ontario Place let hundreds of Brampton residents have fun in Toronto, while experiencing some of their own community.Entertainment on the stage included local rock band Frayed, Cuban singing by Alexis Martinez, blues and folk from Gayle Ackroyd, Carmen Spada's smooth jazz, bhangra dancing by the Koonja and the Punjabi Virsa Art & Culture Academy, and a Brampton Theatre performance of Man of La Mancha.Many groups and community organizations were at the event, from the Farmers' Market to the Brampton Stallions football team. Visual Arts Brampton offered kids the chance to create artwork for their Snail Mail World Postcard Art Show, while the Brampton Arts Council gave away pink sand buckets with Region of Peel water bottles. Young visitors were noticeably enthralled by Sassy the Squirrel, the City's mascot.People who bought passes to the Brampton Day event through the City were encouraged to wear blue wrist bands around the park, for a chance to get spotted and win a prize. A draw was held for prizes including green fees for four at the Peel Village Golf Course, Heritage Theatre tickets, and restaurant gift certificates.Festival Square's proximity to Lake Ontario caused its share of trouble, particularly for the arts groups  displaying in the south. Tents were blown on their sides, becoming veritable wind sails. Luckily no guests or volunteers were injured by the mishaps. One painting infused with a sculpture, at the Beaux-Arts Brampton tent, was destroyed early in the day after catching a gust of wind.Average windspeed for the Toronto Island Airport area is 12 km/h.Last night was the 2007 MuchMusic Video Awards in Downtown Toronto, Ontario, Canada.MuchMusic is the most watched music channel in Canada, and has been holding the event since 1990. Roughly 6,000 fans line the streets surrounding Much headquarters each year, and 1,200 more score "the wristband" and enjoy a free festival-style show in the parking lot, watching four outdoor performance areas spread out in the downtown location. New this year was a special roof-top stage, on the top of the building. Finger Eleven performed on this stage, way above the crowds.Other performers at the show were Avril Lavigne, Fergie, Billy Talent, Hilary Duff, Alexisonfire, Maroon 5, Belly, and The Used.Presenters included Nickelback, Jay Manuel (Canada's Next Top Model, America's Next Top Model), Tara Reid (American Pie, this fall's Land of Canaan), Joss Stone, Sum 41, Amber Tamblyn (Joan of Arcadia, Grudge 2), Hedley, Chris Bosh (Toronto Raptors), Sean Avery (New York Rangers), George, Sam Roberts, Emilie de Ravin (LOST), Marianas Trench, and Kardinal Offishall.Among the awards up for grabs were four People's Choice categories, which were open for text message (within Canada) or online ballots until the night of.In a true sign of the times, a mobile phone ringtone has topped the UK singles chart. The Crazy Frog ringtone, long marketed to children and teenagers was last week launched as a single - and promptly proved more popular than both Coldplay's comeback release, Speed of Sound and last weeks number one by Oasis.The song, if it can be called that, is a variation of the hugely popular Crazy Frog ringtone remixed with Axel F - the theme tune from the 1980s film Beverly Hills Cop which starred Eddie Murphy.The Crazy Frog ringtone has been marketed in Britain, and throughout Europe, by German firm Jamster! It is primarily marketed by multiple TV adverts on music channels which are targeted at teenagers and kids.Friday evening, mockumentary Mister America had its world premiere at Grauman's Egyptian Theatre in Hollywood, California as part of Hulu's Beyond Fest film festival. Mister America is a continuation of the elaborate multimedia universe of Tim Heidecker and Gregg Turkington's web series On Cinema at the Cinema. Wikinews attended the premiere.The film follows a fictionalized version of comedian Tim Heidecker who hosts the absurd and shallow On Cinema film review Web series with purported film expert Gregg Turkington. When Heidecker narrowly avoids a murder conviction, he sets out to run for District Attorney of San Bernardino County and fails to even be on the ballot.The premiere was accompanied by a question-and-answer session moderated by Canadian comedian Nathan Fielder, delving into the logistics of shooting with a five-person crew over the course of three days on a shoestring budget. Fans in the audience probed the stars about their comedic backgrounds, including Turkington's alias of insult comedian Neil Hamburger and Heidecker's interest in political comedy.In addition to the cast of the film, additional On Cinema alumni including Alessandro Serradimigni, Joe Estevez, and Manuel Giusti were in attendance.The Beyond Fest 2019 continues through October 8 and Mister America debuts to a wider audience on October 9.Maxim Kuzmenko, a mathematics and informatics student of Moldova State University, will be representing the Republic of Moldova at the World Cyber Games to be held in Singapore on November 16. The young man won the qualification War Craft computer game tournament held in Chisinau recently.Moldova WCG Committee Chairman Mr. Vladislav Lyahov says Kuzmenko has few chances to win at the forthcoming world championship. However, the experience of participation in such grand assemblies and learning more about computer aces' game strategies is simply priceless, he said.Selective tournaments in Moldova were held in 4 computer games most popular here. The winners in other game competitions will participate in respective World Cyber Game tournaments.In Moldova, the qualifications gathered nearly 300 aspirants aged 15-24, including women, from all over Moldova.Moldovan wine producers took three silver medals at the third annual international contest of wine tasting and judging of strong alcoholic beverages, the "Concours Mondial de Bruxelles 2008". This year the event was held in Bordeaux, France. Previously, the event was held in Portugal and in Maastricht in 2007 and will held in Spain next year.Moldovan wine makers participated with 12 types of wine. The medals went to the wines produced by the stock company Acorex Wine Holding, Amaro de la Valea Perjei 2003, Pinot Grigio/ Aligote/ Sauvignon Blanc 2005 and Pinot Noir 2005, with the last two being from the Private reserve series. Last year's fourteenth edition of the contest, held in the Netherlands in 2007, Moldovan wines won three gold medals and three silver ones.This week the United Kingdom's Ofcom ruled that ITV2 "breached standards" with a repeat of The Montel Williams Show in which Pam and Craig Akers asked "psychic" Sylvia Browne where their son, Shawn Hornbeck, was. Browne told the Akers their son was dead and his body "was in a wooded area near two boulders," but he was later found alive in January 2007. As a result, Browne and Montel Williams not only received heavy criticism for the failed prediction, but the airing of the show in the U.K. concerned "breaching rule 2.1 of the Broadcasting Code, which relates to protecting viewers against offensive material." The program distributors removed the episode from their stock and apologized for any offense to the public. Ofcom also concluded "that a demonstration of the paranormal in this case could result in participants acting on information that could be harmful to them and the Hornbecks could have stopped searching for their child, for example."A bomb scare was sparked after someone mistook a replica bomb from the film Monty Python and the Holy Grail for a real bomb.A member of the water board discovered what they described as a "suspicious object" under a fire hydrant cover at the junction between Tabernacle Street and Epworth Street in Finsbury, London. The police, the fire brigade, and bomb disposal officers were called to destroy the bomb, only to discover it was a replica of the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch.In the film Monty Python and the Holy Grail, King Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table use the Holy Hand Grenade to kill the deadly Killer Rabbit of Caerbannog.One eye-witness, pub landlord Alberto Romanelli, said: "It was one of the most ridiculous things I have ever seen. The bomb squad were here. They evacuated the pub while they were doing X-rays and stuff. It all lasted about 45 minutes before they decided it was nothing — which I thought was pretty obvious from the start. I lost a good hour's worth of business."Former member of Monty Python and star of the film Michael Palin humorously commented on the incident saying: "Our Holy Hand Grenade was fictional and there were no plans for creation. We don't want to add to the armaments of the world."In what appears to be a domestic disturbance, the mother and brother of American singer and Academy Award winning actress Jennifer Hudson were shot and killed in their home in Chicago, Illinois. Hudson's nephew has also been reported kidnapped from the crime scene and his mother cannot be located.Hudson's mother, Darnell Donerson, and brother, Jason, were found dead at about 2:44 p.m. (CDT) in Southern Chicago. Reports indicate that a relative found the bodies and called 9-1-1. Police say that there is no evidence of forced entry into the house.An AMBER Alert has been issued for Julian King, the 7-year-old nephew of Hudson. Police say that he was taken from the scene in a 1994 white Chevrolet Suburban or a teal-green Chrysler Concorde. Police previously thought it likely that the boy was with William Balfour, whose relationship to Hudson or her family is not yet known, except that he listed Hudson's mother's address as a place of residence with the Illinois Department of Corrections. Balfour is currently in police custody and is being questioned, but King was not with him. Police say that the AMBER Alert remains in effect.TMZ.com reports that Balfour is currently on parole from serving time in prison for attempted murder. Authorities consider him armed and dangerous. TMZ also notes that Hudson's sister Julia, Julian's mother, cannot be located and has not been seen since she ended her bus driving shift earlier in the day.Unconfirmed reports have stated that Hudson was not at the house at the time of the incident. While some reports indicate that she was in Los Angeles, California where she was scheduled to begin filming a new music video on Monday, Agence France-Presse says that Hudson was in Tampa, Florida, and is now on her way back to Chicago.On April 4, 2008 Bobbi-Jo Arnold, accompanied by her mother Mary Patricia Moore and other family members, claimed a $3.5 million lottery ticket win in Toronto. On October 2 the two women were arrested by Ontario Police. Both are facing charges including fraud over $5000, possession of property obtained by crime, false pretenses and uttering a forged document. They allegedly stole the ticket from Moore's then-husband.The family dispute has led to Ms Moore (59) filing for divorce from her husband of ten years, Gerald Moore (81), in August. Mr Moore alleges Ms Arnold received the ticket from her mother, who took it from his bedside table. He further alleges his wife "manipulated" his medications to leave him incapable to grasp what was occurring. The Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation is also named in Mr Moore's civil suit for alleged negligence in investigating Ms Arnold's claim.The bail judge's order requires Ms Moore to live with her daughter Arnold in a home she purchased with the lottery winnings, and not with her husband. As well, both women are ordered not to leave Essex County, Ontario and to surrender their passports to the police.Mother's Day was established  on the second Sunday in May by Anna Jarvis after her mother passed away. Former United States President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed the inaugural Mother's Day in 1914."Miss Jarvis thought Mother's Day should be a day you spend with your mother, or a day when you do something special for her like fix her dinner or repair her broken stairs," said an archivist at Mary Baldwin College. "Mother's Day has nothing to do with candy," said Jarvis, "It's really a shame to waste flowers for Mother's Day." This year again, the American congress approved the observance and requested the president to call upon citizens to partake in the time honoured recognition of this tradition.  "I, Barack Obama, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim May 10, 2009, as Mother's Day. I urge all Americans to express their love, respect, and gratitude to mothers everywhere, and I call upon all citizens to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities."Tara McDonald, the mother of abducted Woodstock, Ontario eight year old, Victoria (Tori) Stafford, said "I would really hope to have my child home for Mother's Day."  McDonald said that dealing with Tori's absence since April 8 has resulted in "times when I sit in my house and bawl my eyes out and I curl up into a ball and I sob."61 year old Lynda McDade graduated Saturday from the University of Detroit along with her two daughters.A mother under court order forbidding her access to her three children for three years was thrown in jail for approaching her child and telling him she loved him.  The mother has been accused of turning the children against the father, a rich City financier who now has custody of the family's children.Gloria Steele, Acting Assistant Administrator for Global Health honours the 20th anniversary of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), "Women make extraordinary contributions as caregivers and caretakers, as well as breadwinners and bread-makers. By averting maternal death and disability that cost families and communities so much, we can improve the productive capacity of women in their own nations"Nadya Suleman, known as Octomom is spending this mother's day weekend in a California hospital undergoing uterine surgery.  This operation will also make Suleman's family complete with fourteen children as she will no longer be able to physcially conceive a child following the surgery.Mary Ann Wright, known as "Mother Wright", died Thursday in Oakland, California, but not before achieving renown as advocate for the poor, and feeding the hungry.  She founded the Mother May Ann Wright Foundation from her modest beginnings sparing meals to others while subsisting herself on Social Security checks.Maree Vaile is a mother of three who was humbled by New Zealand's Mother of the Year award.  Her husband and children recognised the adversity the family has overcome and wanted to show their appreciation by nominating her in the "Mums on Top" online competition. In Taiwan, students from South Taiwan who attend University in North Taiwan could board a special train provided by the Taiwan Railway Adminsitration so they could visit their mothers on Mother's Day.  "Give your mother a hug, a big and strong hug, because love is not only a noun, it is also a verb," President Ma Ying-jeou  said, "The older mothers grow, the greater is their need to feel needed. So we should show our love for our mother."Movieforumz.com, a website that allows users to display links to movies you "can watch for free online" has leaked The Assassination of Jesse James, an upcoming movie to be released in theaters on October 10. The movie can be seen in six parts, all of which link to an online video hosting website called Veoh, similar to YouTube. Both websites run on videos uploaded by their users, and do not condone the uploading of copyrighted material.The movie was recorded by someone attending what appears to be a special screening of the film and can be downloaded free of charge, twelve days before its  release into theaters. Directed by Andrew Dominik, the movie is about an outlaw named Robert Ford, a man who decided to join the James-Younger Gang which was the gang of Jesse James, an American outlaw, in the 1800s. The movie is based on the novel of the same name, written by the novelist Ron Hansen.Brad Pitt stars as James, and Casey Affleck co-stars as Ford.According to Dr. Vinton Cerf, a few movie producers have talked about using filesharing such as BitTorrent for the distribution of video content.  Dr. Cerf is considered to be one of the fathers of the Internet.  One of the problems with having a video on demand service is video files take quite a bit of bandwidth to distribute.  Through the use of file sharing, the clients that are requesting a video can share information amongst themselves and can take some of the load off of the original distributor.  The only draw back to using file sharing is the distribution would not be instant; instead, it would have to be pre-recorded like TiVo.Ironically, the movie industry has been suing people for file sharing for years now. In the end, this same technology might save the movie industry millions. Cerf said, "They are only just now starting to come to honest grips with the possibilities of using the Internet," according to ZDNet Australia.Currently, waves of lawsuits against internet file-sharing services continue to be mounted. 11 countries across Europe and Asia have seen lawsuits filed against individuals by record companies fighting file-sharing technology which they say is costing it billions. The total number of lawsuits worldwide is in the range of 12,000.The Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) is suing six websites for hosting  BitTorrent links to TV programs. The MPAA is a movie industry trade group representing most U.S. studios.  The MPAA claims that these sites allow users of BitTorrent software to find and download illegal copies of various TV programmes. Five of the sites sued are registered in the U.S., and the sixth site is registered in Spain. The sites sued are Shuntv.net, Zonatracker.com, Btefnet.net, Scifi-classics.net, Cddvdheaven.co.uk, and Bragginrights.biz.According to research by Envisional, recent surveys report downloads of TV programmes are up by 150% in a year.  Most of the downloads, 70%, used BitTorrent sites. With the increasing ubiquity of broadband Internet access, popular television shows, which are smaller downloads than movies, often appear within hours of airing on TV. The MPAA has filed over 100 lawsuits since December against operators of BitTorrent sites. The MPAA has also sued individuals, but has not reported how many.MPAA CEO Dan Glickman told the BBC, "Since we began shutting these sites down, the time that it takes to download a file on BitTorrent has increased exponentially, which means the experience of downloading copyrighted films and TV shows is not what it used to be. We intend to make it even worse. Protecting the television industry is essential."Pat Morita, nee Noriyuki Morita, who was best known for his work in the 1984 film The Karate Kid and its sequels, passed away on November 24. The cause of death is not yet confirmed, but was said to be natural. Pat started out at a stand-up comedian in the 1960s, and styled himself the "Hip Nip". "'Hip Nip' just sounds groovy," Morita said "A drummer laid it on me." His career took off, and he became a regular on the show Happy Days as "Arnold" of "Arnold's Restaurant" fame. He also acted in the show Mr. T and Tina which was an unsuccessful spin-off of the Welcome Back Kotter series.However, Pat's career continued, and he starred in several TV movies including Amos and a 1987-88 made-for-TV police drama called Ohara. Then, for his acclaimed performance in The Karate Kid, he was nominated for an Academy Award. At his death, Morita had over 100 screen credits, including The Karate Kid sequels, and also as a voice character in the Disney films Mulan and Mulan II. Morita was beloved by many children of the 80s, and remains a popular icon.MTV Networks' MTV and VH1 have secured the rights to distribute over cable networks the Live 8 series of concerts which will be taking place at 8 venues in Europe, North America and Japan. The concerts are meant to raise awareness of poverty in Africa and charitable donations to fight it. America Online holds the rights to broadcast Live 8 over the Internet and is currently in talks with American Broadcasting Company to also broadcast the concert.MTV, VH1, and its college network, mtvU will broadcast the concert from noon to 8 PM. This will be the second outing for MTV, as they broadcasted the original Live Aid concert. If ABC decides to air the concert as well, this will also be their second going as well. According to MTV, this is the longest MTV has gone without a televised event since the coverage of the violent, riot-filled Woodstock 1999.Two radio networks will also broadcast the concert. The subscription-based XM Satellite Radio will broadcast the original five announced concerts but will not broadcast the Tokyo or Barrie concerts. Premiere Radio Networks will broadcast the concerts tailored to the three genres of urban, rock and roll and pop music.Some of the performers slated are: U2, Coldplay, Madonna, Dave Matthews Band, Jay-Z, Destiny's Child and a reunited Pink Floyd.MTV Networks launched a new cable channel to 10 million homes Thursday featuring movies, documentaries and original programming targeting the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender audience becoming the first 24-hour digital cable network offered in the United States on several cable providers and satellite systems.Logo will present original series, documentaries and specials as well as a library of over 200 lesbian and gay films.  The cable channel is also teaming up with CBS News to cover lesbian and gay stories and headlines.While the channel debuted Thursday, Viacom, the parent comany of Logo, had still not signed licensing agreements with several of the largest cable providers including Comcast and Cox.  DirecTV signed a deal Wednesday making Logo available to 13 million households, and Time Warner and Atlantic Broadband have committed to carry the network.Advertisers will include Orbitz, Tylenol, Motorola, Miller Lite, Lions Gate Films and Subaru wishing to market to the coveted 25-to-49 age range providing an opportunity to reach out to the lesbian and gay market.Opposition to the new channel was expected with MSNBC quoting Janice Crouse, senior fellow at Concerned Women for America, a conservative public-policy women's organization based in Washington, D.C., calling Logo "another example of an assault on children's innocence, a means of legitimizing a homosexual lifestyle, mainstreaming homosexuality in a positive and appealing way."The Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) hails the launch of Logo."Logo has the potential to reach millions of American television viewers with images and stories that can play a vital role in broadening understanding of our lives, our families and our relationships," says GLAAD Entertainment Media Director Damon Romine. "MTV Networks has a long history of groundbreaking gay and lesbian programming, and devoting an entire network to telling our stories gives us cause to celebrate.""What these networks provide is something new: an unprecedented opportunity for gays and lesbians to see ourselves depicted as we are, rather than as others see us," Romine says. "At its best, television holds up a mirror to our lives, and the advent of these three networks means that LGBT viewers can now see themselves more accurately and fully reflected in that mirror."Many have wondered why it took as long as it did to introduce a national LGBT cable channel considering the success of mainstream network shows like "Will & Grace" and "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy."Warner Music agreed on Tuesday to license its music videos to MTV for use on devices such as cell phones and other devices. This deal is said to help the recording industry to gain more revenue, despite declining CD sales. The cost of the deal was not disclosed.MTV plans to distribute these music videos as short segments and, in the future, offer full-length videos as part of a subscription. In addition, MTV wishes to use these videos in programs similar to VH1's Driven. Pricing is not available yet.Warner Music is the first label to license music to MTV for the purpose of offering them on wireless devices. MTV plans to get licenses from other music labels.Wikinews will be attending The 2007 MuchMusic Video Awards this weekend, a popular annual event in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. True stars will be out to play, present, and else wise schmooze at the CHUM-City Building just above the city's Entertainment District in the Queen Street West neighbourhood.MuchMusic is the most popular music channel in Canada, and has been holding the event since 1990. Roughly 6000 fans line the streets surrounding Much headquarters each year, and 1200 more score "the wristband" and enjoy a free festival-style show in the parking lot, watching four outdoor performance areas spread out in the downtown location. New this year is a special roof-top stage, on the top of the building.Last year's show reached 3.5 million viewers in Canada and 100 million around the globe, with broadcasts in 65 countries.Performing at the show will be Avril Lavigne, Fergie, Billy Talent, Hilary Duff, Alexisonfire, Maroon 5, Belly, The Used, and Finger Eleven.On stage presenting will be Nickelback, Jay Manuel (Canada's Next Top Model, America's Next Top Model), Tara Reid (American Pie, this fall's Land of Canaan), Joss Stone, Sum 41, Amber Tamblyn (Joan of Arcadia, Grudge 2), Hedley, Chris Bosh (Toronto Raptors), Sean Avery (New York Rangers), George, Sam Roberts, Emilie de Ravin (LOST), Marianas Trench, and Kardinal Offishall.Photographer Robin Wong will be photographing the red carpet of the MMVAs for Wikinews and Wikipedia. He first helped the sites in April of this year, photographing Hilary Duff at MuchMusic. Wong's extensive client list includes Fidelty Investments, Flare Magazine, Masterfile, First Light, Fashion Television, FCB Canada, Profit Magazine, Financial Post, and Publicis. His works have appeared in the 2004 and 2005 Applied Arts Awards Annual, the top publication for the creative industry.Nearing the one year anniversary of the publication of twelve controversial editorial cartoons depicting Muhammad in a Danish newspaper, a leading authority of Sunni Islam has demanded that the newspaper be shut down.In an interview with the Danish newspaper Berlingske Tidende, Sheikh Mohammed Sayyed Tantawi, Grand Iman of the Al-Azhar University in Cairo and formerly Grand Mufti of the Republic, demanded the closure of Jyllands Posten, the paper responsible for publishing the cartoons.  He went on to call for chief editor Carsten Juste to be jailed for three years, and for the editor of the paper's cartoon section, Flemming Rose, be depicted as a pig."It is thought provoking," Rose said, "that he (Tantawi) believes it would be a punishment for me to be depicted as a pig.  It confirms that the imam has a shocking lack of knowledge about our civilisation, and it confirms the need for dialogue."  Rose added that it shows how blasphemy law in the Arab world is used to suppress those with views different from those in power.Tantawi called the drawings "one of the most serious crimes ever committed."News Corporation, owned by Rupert Murdoch, has made the decision to abandon a deal to take full control of broadcasting company BSkyB. The decision came amidst pressure from the British public and politicians, as British parliamentarians from the government and opposition parties prepared to vote in the House of Commons in London to urge Murdoch to drop the deal.The Murdoch move followed a series of damaging revelations about alleged phone hacking offences by journalists at the News of the World, which published its last edition on July 10. Labour leader Ed Miliband said the decision was "a victory for people up and down this country who have been appalled by the revelations of the phone hacking scandal and the failure of News International to take responsibility".Chase Carey, the president of News Corporation, said it would be "too difficult to progress in this climate." The corporation "remains a committed long-term shareholder in BSkyB," Carey said in a statement. "We are proud of the success it has achieved and our contribution to it."Politicians from around the political spectrum have expressed their disapproval on Murdoch over the allegations of phone hacking and praised his decision to drop the deal, with Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, saying the decision was "decent and sensible"; while Ivan Lewis, a senior Labour shadow minister, called the decision "a victory for the public of this country."Drag—dressing in the clothing atypical of your born gender—in recent years has found mainstream success.  Films such as Priscilla, Queen of the Desert, Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil and To Wong Foo, Thanks for Everything! Julie Newmar have prominently featured drag performers.  But they have all focused on men in drag as women.Murray Hill is a comedian, emcee and performer.  He is also a drag king.  Called "The Hardest Working Middle-aged Man in Show Business", The New York Times christened him "the current reigning patriarch of the downtown performance community."  He is seemingly everywhere, emceeing a bingo night at the now closed, Jimmy Fallon-backed Mo Pitkins' House of Satisfaction on Avenue A, or hosting the Polyamorous Pride Day in Central Park.  Hill has become a legend in New York's "anything goes" counterculture theater scene who is beginning to find mainstream success; which would be a first for a drag king.  David Shankbone's examination of New York City's culture has brought him to the whip's end of a BDSM dungeon, on the phone with RuPaul, matching wits with Michael Musto, grilling Gay Talese, eating dinner with Augusten Burroughs and quizzing the bands that play the Bowery Ballroom.  In this segment he talks to downtown legend Murray Hill, former New York City mayoral candidate and comedian, on the last night of Mo Pitkins' House of Satisfaction.US pop and country duo The Bellamy Brothers are accusing pop music singer Britney Spears — also from the United States — of plagiarism in her latest single "Hold It Against Me".  The group believes that  Spears is "ripping off" one of their songs, a 1979 track entitled "If I Said You Had a Beautiful Body Would You Hold It Against Me"; they are thought to be attempting to have Spears prosecuted.Howard and David Bellamy claim that Britney Spears' single, the first to be released from her upcoming album Femme Fatale, is "too close" to The Bellamy Brothers song. Both tracks have reached number one on various music charts.Speaking to British tabloid newspaper The Daily Star, David Bellamy said, "Howard and I have no personal beef with Britney. She’s a talented gal. But professionally we feel completely ripped off. We will without doubt take the appropriate legal action if our attorneys agree we’ve been ripped off."A spokesperson for Britney Spears, made a statement to the same newspaper. "If this is now a legal matter then I am afraid we would have nothing to say until our lawyers have been alerted," the spokesperson stated.Mean Fiddler was founded in 1982 by Vince Power, a native of County Waterford, Ireland. The company, which started life as a small but trendy club in London, grew rapidly in the 1980's to encompass a French restaurant and three venues in London; the Acoustic Room, the Powerhaus and Subterania.Today the company regularly organises some of the largest music events in Europe. It runs the Reading and Leeds music festivals and also owns a 39% stake in the Glastonbury Festival.Canada: The One: Making a Music Star was cancelled today, just over a week after its debut. Overall it aired only four episodes.ABC's (American Broadcasting Company) show site for The One says, “There are no plans for additional episodes. Thanks to all who participated in and supported The One!”According to an interview with the host over the phone from Hollywood on CFRB 1010 Toronto; George Stroumboulopoulos said that "he was not surprised because he thought maybe that the show's message didn't come across making viewers not understanding the show." "He also said that he is happy that he is still hosting CBC News: The Hour." Stroumboulopoulos has said, however, that he was only taking The One as a "summer job," and does not plan to stop hosting The Hour.CBC is now considering a Canadian version of the show."It's too early to tell," said Kirstine Layfield, CBC's executive director of network programming. "We're not under any pressure to make immediate decisions."Layfield said a decision would be made in a few weeks. If CBC goes ahead, it would launch its own Canadian version of the show this fall. "The Canadian version of The One is still in early development," Layfield said, adding that the CBC has learned from the American version. "We'll use that when we take a look at what we're going to be doing with the Canadian version."The One only got 236,000 Canadians viewers for its debut episode, and pulled in 938,000 total viewers. It drew 3.2 million U.S. viewers and finished fifth in its time slot. [1] According to Nielsen Media Research, 150,000 Canadians tuned in Tuesday nights show. [2]This is the first and, so far the only version of the Operación Triunfo / Star Academy format to not be completed before the end of the series. Since ABC and Endemol were running a contest with a prize of a recording contract someone will eventually be declared "the One." Just how a winner will be declared is still being discussed. [3]Anti-gay groups accuse a music video, with over 100 children's TV heroes such as SpongeBob SquarePants, of being a vehicle for pro-gay propaganda.The video's makers say the music video - a re-recording of the Sister Sledge hit "We Are Family" - is to promote tolerance and diversity to America's children. Dr. James C. Dobson, co-founder of the pro-Family Christian Ministry Focus on the Family, singled out SpongeBob at a black-tie dinner for members of Congress in the run-up to G.W. Bush's inauguration on 2005 Jan 18, according to The New York Times.Dobson told the guests that the cartoon sponge had been enlisted in a "pro-homosexual video" that was going to be mailed to thousands of elementary schools promoting a "tolerance pledge" that included a reference to "sexual identity."The video's creator, Nile Rodgers, who wrote the disco hit "We Are Family," told The New York Times that Dobson's objection stems from a misunderstanding. Rodgers said he founded the We Are Family Foundation after the 9/11 attacks to create a music video to teach children about multiculturalism. The video has appeared on television networks, and nothing in it or its accompanying materials refers to sexual identity. The pledge, borrowed from the Southern Poverty Law Center, is not mentioned on the video and is available only on the group's Web site.Rodgers suggested that Dobson and the American Family Association might have been confused because of an unrelated Web site belonging to another group called "We Are Family," which supports gay youth.David Byrne, the former lead singer of 1980s art punk band Talking Heads, is suing Florida governor Charlie Crist over the latter's use of the Talking Heads song "Road to Nowhere" in an election commercial. Byrne alleges that Crist made use of the song in a campaign commercial without the artist's permission, and that if permission had been asked Byrne would have declined it.Byrne told the BBC that the lawsuit, in which the musician is claiming $1 million in damages, is "not about politics, it's about copyright". In his personal blog, though, Byrne commented: "Besides being theft, use of the song and my voice in a campaign ad implies that I, as writer and singer of the song, might have granted Crist permission to use it, and that I therefore endorse him and/or the Republican Party, of which he was a member until very, very recently." Governor Crist is running for election to the United States Senate as an independent.The lawsuit was filed early Monday afternoon in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida in Tampa and has been assigned Case Number 8:10-CV1187-T26 (MAP). Byrne is represented by Lawrence Iser, the attorney who represented Jackson Browne when Browne successfully sued John McCain in a similar lawsuit in 2008.The advertisement, which premiered on January 12, 2010 and has since been withdrawn from use, attacked politician Marco Rubio over reversals in Rubio's public positions. The video has been blocked on video hosting site YouTube "due to a copyright claim by Warner Music Group."Governor Crist's campaign had no comment on the lawsuit.British singer, song-writer and guitarist John Martyn has died at the age of 60. He died while in a hospital in Ireland."With heavy heart and an unbearable sense of loss we must announce that John died this morning," said a statement posted on his website. The details surrounding his death are not known, but Martyn has admitted to past drug and alcohol abuse.Martyn had to have his right leg amputated in 2003 because of a cyst, but despite the loss, he continued to play his music from a wheelchair. On December 31, 2008 during the UK's New Year's party he was awarded the Order of the British Empire (OBE) award.Martyn is said to be best known for his album Solid Air, made in 1973. He previously played with other music stars such as Phil Collins, who recorded an album with Martyn in 1980 titled Grace and Danger. Martyn also worked with Eric Clapton."John’s passing is terribly, terribly sad. I had worked with and known him since the late 1970s and he was a great friend. He was uncompromising, which made him infuriating to some people, but he was unique and we’ll never see the likes of him again. I loved him dearly and will miss him very much," said Collins in a statement to the press.Well-known Canadian singer-songwriter Joni Mitchell was found unconscious on Tuesday at her Los Angeles home, and immediately taken to hospital, according to reports. An update on her condition appeared yesterday on her website.The update yesterday on her website said, "Joni remains under observation in the hospital and is resting comfortably. We are encouraged by her progress and she continues to improve and get stronger each day." Webpage 'We love you Joni' was also created for fans on Facebook and Twitter to send Mitchell messages to get well soon. A previous statement left on Mitchell's website on Tuesday said, "Joni was found unconscious in her home this afternoon. She regained consciousness on the ambulance ride to an L.A. area hospital. She is currently in intensive care undergoing tests and is awake and in good spirits." They added, "More updates to come when we hear them. Light a candle and sing a song, let's all send good wishes her way." According to an early report by TMZ, the seventy-one year old musician's condition was serious, and a 911 phone call was made from her home around 2:30 p.m. local time.Rolling Stone, also claims that a Los Angeles Fire Department spokesperson explained to them that, though they could not reveal who was taken to the hospital at the time, paramedics were sent to Mitchell's house.On her twitter account, CBC news producer Leslie Stojsic gave a conflicting statement to other reports on Mitchell's condition, saying, "Source tells me she's in hospital recovering after 'minor medical emergency,' was *not* found unconscious."  She also added, "I'm told now she's resting in hospital and is among friends. A good sign."It did not take long for her condition in hospital to spread through the social media. Many tweeted prayers and well wishes; one of them being rocker Billy Idol. He tweeted, "Sorry to hear todays news about Joni Mitchell. I sang on her 'Dancing Clown' single many moons ago, all the best 4 her recovery." Mitchell also reportedly suffers from Morgellons disease; a skin condition where people claim they have fibres coming out of their skin, along with tingling sensations. In her memoir, 'Joni Mitchell: In her own words,' released last year, the folk artist describes her experiences with the disease saying, "All the time it felt like I was being eaten alive by parasites living under my skin. I couldn't leave my house for several years."Former Genesis band member Phil Collins has announced that he will never play the drums ever again. Collins says his decision is due to a spinal injury which makes it too painful for him to hold up his drumsticks.  In an interview with British tabloid, the Daily Mirror, Collins, age 58 said, "I've got a condition that means I can't play any more.  After playing drums for 50 years, I've had to stop.""Obviously I'm very sad about it. My vertebrae has been crushing my spinal cord because of the position I drum in. I can't even hold the sticks properly without it being painful. I even used to tape the sticks to my hands to get through," added Collins who also said that he is still able to sing.One of Collins' friends said to the Daily Mirror, "He is devastated as drumming is everything to him. It's how he made his name and it set him on the road to superstardom."Musician Prince died at home in Minnesota, United States yesterday.A publicist confirmed his death."It is with profound sadness that I am confirming that the legendary, iconic performer, Prince Rogers Nelson has died".A statement from the Carver County Sheriff's office said Prince was found in an elevator at his home at Paisley Park Studio. Emergency workers were called, but after they were unable to revive him, he was pronounced dead.Following Prince's first album in 1978, he came to prominence in the 1980s.  His 1980s releases included 1999, Kiss, Purple Rain, and Sign o' the Times. He went on to record more than 30 albums.During his career he sold more than 100 million records and had 47 songs reach the US Billboard top 100. Five of those songs, When Doves Cry, Kiss, Let's Go Crazy, Cream, and Batdance, went to number one. The song When Doves Cry was number one for five weeks.In 1984 Prince starred in the movie Purple Rain, which was based on his album. The movie's song score won Prince an Academy Award for best original song score. Prince won seven Grammy awards and in 2004 was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.He also wrote songs released successfully by other artists, such as Manic Monday released in 1986 by the Bangles and Nothing Compares 2 U released in 1990 by Sinéad O'Connor.The Minnesota Star Tribune reported an autopsy will be conducted to determine Prince's cause of death.File:Ratzinger Szczepanow 2003 9.JPGPope Benedict XVI has enraged the Islamic world by quoting the 14th century Byzantine Emperor Manuel II Palaiologos criticism of Prophet Muhammad's teachings on Tuesday, August 12, durring his six-day visit to Germany.The Pope said "The emperor comes to speak about the issue of jihad, holy war.  He said, I quote, 'Show me just what Mohammed brought that was new, and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached'."Vatican spokesman Reverend Federico Lombardi clarified the quotation, saying "It certainly wasn't the intention of the Pope to carry out a deep examination of jihad and on Muslim thought on it, much less to offend the sensibility of Muslim believers." Many Muslim leaders have condemned the comments, some of them stating that the Pope had fallen into "the trap of bigots and racists".Mohamed Mahdi Akef, who was convicted of leading the Muslim Brotherhood, asked Islamic nations to break off relations with the Vatican, until the Pope apologises for his statements.  He said, "The Pope has aroused the anger of the whole Islamic world and strengthened the argument of those who say that the West is hostile to everything Islamic."  He also said, "The remarks do not express correct understanding of Islam and are merely wrong and distorted beliefs being repeated in the West" and that the comments "pour oil on the fire and ignite the wrath of the whole Islamic world to prove the claims of [hatred] of politicians and religious men in the West to whatever is Islamic".In reference to the Pope's plan to visit to Turkey in November, Ali Bardakoğlu, head of Turkey's Religious Affairs Directorate, "I do not think any good will come from a visit to the Muslim world by a person who has such ideas about Islam's prophet. He should first of all replace the grudge in his heart with moral values and respect for others."The Pakistani parliament unanimously passed a resolution saying, "This House demands that the Pope should retract his remarks in the interest of harmony between religions."  "The derogatory remarks of the Pope about the philosophy of jihad and Prophet Mohammed have injured sentiments across the Muslim world and pose the danger of spreading [bitterness] among the religions."Din Syamsuddin, the chairman of Muhammadiyah, Indonesia's second largest Islamic organisation, said: "The Pope's statements reflect his lack of wisdom."  "It is obvious from the statements that the Pope doesn't have a correct understanding of Islam." Hamid Ansari, chairman of the Indian National Commission for Minorities said, "The language used by the Pope sounds like that of his  12th-century counterpart who ordered the crusades."During a brief interview of Prince Rehman Manjee in Chicago, IL, he is quoted saying, "The pontif is not a God or a super being, he is clearly a human being and is allowed to make mistakes, he would however do well to remember God will judge his mistakes the same as the rest of ours. If he truly has contempt for the Muslim world and his beliefs are in conflict with the official position of the church, then a simple statement should be made to that effect."In Qatar, prominent Muslim scholar shaikh Youssef al-Qaradawi discounted The Pope's comments and said that Islam was a religion of peace and reason.In Islam, the word "Jihad" itself has a variety of meanings depending upon context and interpretation; ranging from any inner spiritual struggle to openly religious warfare.Social networking website MySpace lost over ten million users between January and February 2011, according to comScore. In February 2011, the Internet website had less than 63 million users, down from a previous total of approximately 73 million. In the same month, 2.3 million individuals were on the site in the United Kingdom.In the space of one year, MySpace has also suffered a number of user losses approaching fifty million. Earlier this year, MySpace announced their intentions to eliminate five hundred jobs around the world, which equates to half of its employee total. MySpace has contributed to the success of British music artists, including Kate Nash, Lily Allen and the Arctic Monkeys. In 2005, News Corporation purchased the social networking site for £330 million (US$529 million, €376 million). Five years ago, the site was proving to be largely popular, according to Newsbeat. Recently, the website has been facing difficult competition from other Internet websites, such as Facebook and YouTube and has now been modified to be more significantly based on the music industry. Newsbeat has reported that the value of MySpace at present may be £50 million (US$80 million, €57 million).MySpace's Chief Executive Officer Michael Jones has claimed that the website is "no longer a social network anymore" and that it is currently a "social entertainment destination". Zack Whittaker, of business technology news website ZDNet, has commented that he "would be surprised if MySpace survives the year".The goliath of social networking services, MySpace, is trying to take on the goliath of legal online music download stores, iTunes. Bands will be able to sell MP3 tracks through their MySpace profiles.Most MySpace pages for musicians currently feature streaming audio, which allows web users to listen to a small selection of up to four songs while online. The new feature, currently in development, will allow instant pay-per-downloading of the songs. The downloading has been tested on a few bands' MySpace profiles, over the last few weeks. It is expected that the service will be available to visitors in the United States by year's end.Bands will be able to set whatever price they wish, as opposed to the flat rates of services like iTunes; an undisclosed percentage will go to MySpace/Snocap. Snocap claims they are attempting to keep costs as low as possible. Fans of the bands, called "Friends" on MySpace, will be able to add the "storefront" to their own profiles.MySpace claims to have three million music performers registered on its site. Many of these bands are unsigned or independent, and thus don't currently sell their tracks elsewhere.Downloaded MP3 files will be copy-protection free, which means users can keep copies on as many playing devices as they wish, unlike on most legal song download sites.The feature will be powered by a company called Snocap. The corporation processes the songs to make sure users don't attempt to sell tracks they don't own the rights to.The New York Philharmonic Orchestra has performed a concert in Pyongyang, North Korea in an effort to improve relations between the communist country and the Western world. At the same time, an anonymous North Korean official revealed that Eric Clapton has been invited to play Pyongyang in 2009.The orchestra played in East Pyongyang Grand Theatre, with the entire concert broadcast on state television.Diplomatic tensions remain high, as the U.S. tries to broker a deal with North Korea on the issue of nuclear disarmament, an issue which U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice brought up in her recent visit to China. She has urged China to pressure North Korea into disclosing further details on their controversial nuclear programme, in order to aid further discussions on the debate of the country's disarmament. The North Korean government allowed unprecedented access to the country for more than 300 people and almost completely unrestricted internet and international telephone calls were allowed, something which is usually highly restricted.Naked News' slogan reads “The Program With Nothing to Hide,” and everything holds true to that. The Canadian-based program presents the news completely bare, with little exception, including a segment they present outside naked. The exception being if they are in the process of disrobing, or if they are reporting a tragic news event. Gabriel Pollard, writing for Wikinews, interviewed Victoria Sinclair about the “sensual, but not sexual” Naked News, and her presenting role.The show had a fairly basic start, with two friends, Fernando Perreira and Kirby Stasnyk, bluntly thinking that the news would be better presented naked. Sinclair said, “In this case, these men had the means and the will to turn their idea into reality.”  A Russian program with a similar concept, "600 seconds" on M1 TV, in which news anchor Svetlana Pesotskaya removed an article of clothing after each story, received high ratings within eight months of its introduction in 1999.  Naked Broadcasting Network Inc. also started a male edition in 2001, but this was discontinued a few years later due to lack of interest from its key demographic, the gay community. It failed to get the same kind of grounding experienced by the female edition. Later imitators in Hong Kong and Japan have also proved successful.In 1999—its inception—Naked News only had around 8,000 subscribers of a free five-minute show hosted on Daily Dirt. They now boast six million paid subscribers to a much longer news program of 22-minutes produced every six days from 172 countries worldwide. Lead Anchor and spokeswoman Victoria Sinclair puts the success of the international viewership due to the “captivating, saucy, and certainly different” way of presenting the news, “That certainly counts when the news is bad—which it often is.” The public loves the format, and have become “quite attached” to the anchors, says 38-year-old Sinclair.“I believe the secret to our success is that we challenged the accepted boundaries while keeping it clean and tasteful.“I think the way has been paved for us by mainstream journalism; we would never have been embraced so eagerly by the world if it weren’t well prepared.”Sinclair says the reason she got attracted to the Naked News program in the first place was because of its originality, and it felt “very adventurous and underground.” “I think we have a friendlier way of delivering the news....”As well as the show being streamed onto the Internet, another version of the show called Naked News TV! is also available on pay-per-view in the United States, Europe, Canada, Australia, etc. Naked News TV! is a weekly 50-minute show  and marks Naked News' success at porting over from the Internet to television.While Sinclair has been presenting Naked News since the pilot programme in May 1999 – production started in December 1999 – she can't see herself doing anything else, unless it is equally as “unusual”, involves technology, and the Internet. However, she did take a year sabbatical after 9/11. She left her previous job of marketing because it was no longer fulfilling. Sinclair plans to continue her anchoring role in Naked News, and holding a position of Public Relations, as the show expands into the new markets of South Korea and Italy until the time comes that she looks better non-nude.Her “loving and supportive” family and friends are entirely supportive of her current profession. “They are all accustomed to me as it is through their influence that I have become such an independent freethinker.”Last week, Naked News announced that it would dramatically increase its international language mandate to news reporting, with three new broadcasts. Already reporting in English and Japanese, the global organization is launching Spanish, Italian, and Korean-language programs, for television, the web, and mobile devices.Wikinews interviewed one of the English broadcast's anchors a little while ago, about the program. The broadcasts feature daily news and human interest pieces, presented by an anchor who gradually removes their clothing.The internationally-focused newscast created a stir upon its launch in 1999, but has since expanded with online viewers in 172 nations. A male version failed shortly after it launched.Naked News President David Warga commented in a press release that "our intention at Naked News is to be a global media source, much like CNN or BBC World. We are looking forward to expanding into other languages as well, because there is definitely a market  demanding our brand of infotainment."Unlike the foreign stations run by the BBC or CNN, the international broadcasts will not be produced by the company. Branding and practices will be licensed to the other production and distribution companies.Warga claims that, instead of presenting the naked female form as "fluff-head bimbos", their news organization "encourages society to see women as being smart, powerful, and sophisticated." Despite this, the press release lists hotel rooms as being one of the primary distribution methods; hotels account for a large segment of the pornography industry's broadcast market.US Olympic ice hockey silver medalist Molly Schaus returned to her hometown of Naperville, Illinois last weekend. Her travels culminated in a visit on Monday to Spring Brook Elementary School, where as a fourth-grader she set the goal of some day being an Olympian. Schaus's dream was fulfilled this year during the Vancouver Winter Olympics, when she played for the US women's ice hockey team and won a silver medal. As she addressed and answered questions from students and teachers at the grade school, Schaus explained the large amount of work she had to invest to achieve her goals. The Chicago Daily Herald reports that "she has been practicing for three to four hours a day nearly every day for the past year." She told the students to "make a dream and follow it because you never know what can happen and just have fun with it."The nostalgic visit to her elementary school followed a weekend of other appearances in Naperville, including a celebration last Saturday at Rosebud's Italian Specialties and Pizzeria. Saturday had been declared Molly Schaus Day by Naperville Mayor A. George Pradel, who also gave Schaus a key to the city. Schaus has not been the only Olympic alumnus to return to the school; figure skater and gold medalist Evan Lysacek returned to his Naperville hometown and spoke to the students at Spring Brook on March 26. "It's amazing we had two Olympians come to our school. It's like 1 million to one that they both get medals," remarked fourth-grader Alexandra Van Cleave.Schaus lived in Naperville until moving to Massachusetts during her sophomore year in high school, having attended Gregory Middle School for junior high and Benet Academy during her freshman year of high school. After speaking at Spring Brook on Monday, she visited Gregory later that day and then went home to Massachusetts. She is expected to visit the White House with the rest of her team later this year. She will also start preparing for her final season at Boston College.SAN FRANCISCO —Shawn Fanning, the creator of Napster and a founder of Snocap, Inc., on Friday revealed his plans for a legal peer-to-peer file-sharing platform. Snocap has signed an agreement with Universal Music Group to make the company's entire catalogue available through the new service. Financial terms of the deal were not disclosed.According to Snocap's press release, the platform will include a copyright management interface, which will allow content owners to control the distribution of their intellectual property among users. The service's main competitor would be Apple's iTunes Music Store, which is currently the most widely used legal source of downloadable music.On February 4, NASA will digitally transmit the Beatles song Across the Universe in the direction of the star Polaris, commonly known as the North Star.This will mark the first time music has been sent into deep space. The song will be transmitted from the DSS-63 radio antenna at the Madrid Deep Space Communication Complex in Robledo de Chavela, Spain at 12:00 am UTC.The broadcast celebrates the 40th anniversary of the song's recording, the 45th anniversary of NASA's Deep Space Network, and the 50th anniversary of NASA itself.Polaris is approximately 431 light years away from Earth, meaning it will take 431 years for the song to reach the star traveling at the speed of light.NASA's press release includes statements from Beatle Paul McCartney, who tells NASA to "send [his] love to the aliens", and John Lennon's wife Yoko Ono, who sees the event as "the beginning of the new age in which we will communicate with billions of planets across the universe."The idea was hatched by Martin Lewis, a Los Angeles-based humorist and Beatles historian."It never had the highest profile and is a bit of a forgotten classic," Lewis said of the song. "But it has universal appeal. It transcends ages, borders, language and other barriers."NASA invites astronomy fans and Beatles fans alike to play the song simultaneously as it is being transmitted into space.Monday, February 14, 2011 NASCAR Sprint Cup Series driver Dale Earnhardt Jr. won his first pole position of the season today for the 2011 Daytona 500 that will be held at Daytona International Speedway in Daytona Beach, Florida. His time of 48.364 seconds was faster than all others who qualified. Jeff Gordon followed in the second position with a time of 48.396. Unlike other qualifying sessions, this qualifying session only decided the first and second position, while the others will be decided by the two Gatorade Duels held on February 17.It was the third time that both first and second place car was from Hendrick Motorsports. Following his qualifying run, he said, "We had a great car today. I didn't really have a whole lot to do with it, just had to hold on the bottom as tight as I could and the power and the body and everything does all the work." He continued, "It obviously gives you a good idea that you've got a great car, but anyone can win the race. There's guys that qualified outside the top 20 that have got winning cars." Earnhardt started second in the race last year, and has won the race once, which was in 2004.The race will be held at 13:00 EST on February 20, 2011. The race will be broadcast on Fox in the United States. It will also be broadcast on the radio station Motor Racing Network at 12:00 EST.File:KurtBuschPole.jpgPenske Racing driver Kurt Busch won the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series 2011 Budweiser Shootout held yesterday at Daytona International Speedway in Daytona Beach, Florida. This became his first win of the season, and his first at Daytona International Speedway. Throughout the course of the race there were four cautions and 28 lead changes among ten different drivers.On the final lap, Denny Hamlin moved aside Ryan Newman, while doing so he moved below the double yellow line (out of bounds), which gave the victory to Busch while he settled for twelfth. Jamie McMurray, who helped Busch win the race by the draft, finished second. Newman finished third ahead of Jimmie Johnson in the fourth position. Greg Biffle was scored fifth, Jeff Gordon finished sixth, while Kevin Harvick could only manage seventh. Jeff Burton, Clint Bowyer, and Bobby Labonte rounded out the first ten positions. Also during the race, there was an accident that included seven drivers. Dale Earnhardt, Jr., who started on the pole position, discussed the wreck as "too many race cars going for the same real estate."  Another driver, Carl Edwards, said, "We were three or four-wide back there, and I was going between the 88 and the 78, and I don't think the 78 knew I was in there." Edwards continued, "He kept coming down, and I just had enough of my car in there. I laid up against the 88 and then the 78 got me in the right-front, but that's just everybody trying to get the best position they can so we can go out there and race."Following the race, Busch commented, "I’ve got to thank my motor department – Jamie McMurray. "When you have a friend like that in this two-car draft, that’s what it takes." Newman commented about the race by saying it was "the most unexpected race he has ever been a part of."The 23-year-old Canadian delegate Natalie Glevoba was elected on Tuesday morning as the new Miss Universe, in a ceremony held at Bangkok's Impact Arena.Glevoba is a professional model, height 1.79 m (5'11"), who received her Bachelor of Commerce in Information Technology Management and Marketing at Ryerson University. Born in Russia, she emigrated to Toronto at the age of 11. She beat four Latin American delegates in semifinals: Cynthia Olavarria (Puerto Rico), Renata Soñe (Dominican Republic), Laura Elizondo (Mexico) and Mónica Spear (Venezuela), as well as another 75 delegates from the same number of countries.Chananporn Rosjan, from Thailand, won the Best Costume Award, while Gionna Cabrera, from Philippines, was chosen as Miss Photogenic and Tricia Homer, US Virgin Islands delegate, became Miss Congeniality.Billy Bush and Nancy O'Dell co-hosted the ceremony.Glebova received the Mikimoto crown, valued in 250,000 dollars, from Australian Jennifer Hawkins, Miss Universe 2004. Besides, Natalie will live in New York for one year, in one of the Trump Towers, with  other several prizes. The first time a Canadian was elected Miss Universe was in 1982, when Karen Baldwin won the pageant.Colombian designer Miguel De La Torre, who designed Glebova's wardrobe, declared that "Canadian beauty contestants have always been quite classical. It's the first time a Latin designer is chosen. (...) At the very first days, Natalie was quite low-key, because being too noticed is not good. To be with her is the best thing has ever happened in my professional life. Furthermore, to come here for the first time with two delegates (Glebova and Daniela Clerk from Nicaragua) and two gown dresses was a dream come true".Glebova visited Colombia in April 2004 in order to take part in Miss Maja World pageant, held in the northern town of Corozal, Sucre, where she was the second runner-up, and went back there a few months ago to try the dresses designed by De La Torre. The Colombian designer has never participated at his country's national beauty pageant.Thailand's prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra said the pageant was very positive for his country's tourism reactivation, after the tsunami tragedy. Thailand spent 6.5 million dollars in the pageant and used locations at Phi-Phi and Phuket beaches for the previous footages with delegates.Aromanians are a distinct ethnic group currently living mainly in Southeastern Europe, especially Greece and Macedonia. The Aromanians are closely related to the Romanian people, both being descendants from the Latin peoples which lived in Southeastern Europe since the time of the Roman Empire. The Aromanian language, which is spoken by around 500,000 people internationally, is the closest language to Romanian.Despite their relative size, Aromanians have very little, if no, minority rights. In Greece, for example, they are not recognised as a minority. In Romania, where there are an increasing number of Aromanians, many of them migrating from Greece, Macedonia and Albania, they are often considered as Romanians, because their language is partly mutually-intelligible with Romanian and their culture is relatively similar. However, there is currently a movement in Romania to give the Aromanians a status as a separate ethnic group, therefore entitling them to parliamentary representation and education in the Aromanian language, among other rights.Today sees the reopening of the National Museum of Scotland following a three-year renovation costing £47.4 million (US$ 77.3 million). Edinburgh's Chambers Street was closed to traffic for the morning, with the 10am reopening by eleven-year-old Bryony Hare, who took her first steps in the museum, and won a competition organised by the local Evening News paper to be a VIP guest at the event. Prior to the opening, Wikinews toured the renovated museum, viewing the new galleries, and some of the 8,000 objects inside.Dressed in Victorian attire, Scottish broadcaster Grant Stott acted as master of ceremonies over festivities starting shortly after 9am. The packed street cheered an animatronic Tyrannosaurus Rex created by Millenium FX; onlookers were entertained with a twenty-minute performance by the Mugenkyo Taiko Drummers on the steps of the museum; then, following Bryony Hare knocking three times on the original doors to ask that the museum be opened, the ceremony was heralded with a specially composed fanfare – played on a replica of the museum's 2,000-year-old carnyx Celtic war-horn. During the fanfare, two abseilers unfurled white pennons down either side of the original entrance.The completion of the opening to the public was marked with Chinese firecrackers, and fireworks, being set off on the museum roof. As the public crowded into the museum, the Mugenkyo Taiko Drummers resumed their performance; a street theatre group mingled with the large crowd, and the animatronic Tyrannosaurus Rex entertained the thinning crowd of onlookers in the centre of the street.The man who died while riding the Expedition Everest roller coaster at Walt Disney World's Animal Kingdom indeed had prior medical conditions, Orlando, Florida officials say.The Orange County medical examiner determined in a Tuesday autopsy that 44-year-old Navarre, Florida man Jeffery Reed had an existing heart condition.The Walt Disney World website for the ride says: Similar signs exist at the entrance to the ride.The man was given CPR after being pulled off the ride unconscious, and was taken in an ambulance to Celebration Hospital, where he was pronounced dead. Reed was believed to have been conscious at least 50 seconds before the ride ended, when a camera took a picture of him. Cameras are sometimes placed on roller coasters so that riders can buy a photo of themselves as they go down a hill.Orlando Sentinel columnist Mike Thomas commented, that "when millions of people walk through your parks every year, it is a statistical certainty that some of them will die. When that happens on a ride, we often tell you about it under a banner headline. It becomes a worldwide story. But if you did the math, you would find that per capita no more people die in Disney than in any other large gathering place."The "NBA 2K8 Asia Championship" Taiwan Qualifier, organized by NBA Asia Corp. and sponsored by Microsoft Taiwan, was held on December 22 & 23. According to the organizer, Taiwan was chosen as the first on-site stage tournament because of some of the market share factor on the gaming industry and the gaming population.In Taiwan's qualifier, the organizer successively invited models from Catwalk Production House and two Taiwanese bands (Yummy, 2moro) for friendship matches with the public. With the entertainers' participation, it attracted media and press in the entertainment industry.On the other hand, to conjunct with sports and gaming, the organizer set the experience area with not only the Xbox 360 gaming console but also a shooting machine.In this 2-day qualifier, due to some issues on the arrangement of the schedule, some registered gamers offered to quit the championship, but it didn't take effect on the results of the single day champion, the 2-day champion, and overall champion. Finally, Yu-cheng Lin won the overall champion to participate in the Grand Final of the championship in South Korea on January 12, 2008.According to the organizer, the Hong Kong qualifier will start on January 5 & 6, 2008 at Plaza Hollywood in Diamond Hill, Hong Kong.NBC has officially decided to cancel its high-rated reality show Three Wishes after only nine episodes. The network also cut back the number of season episodes for Law & Order from 24 episodes to 22.Three Wishes, which is hosted by Christian music artist Amy Grant, was watched by approximately 8.7 million viewers upon its premiere on September 23. It continued to boast high ratings, but NBC nonetheless rescinded its order for six more episodes of the series. The final episode is scheduled to premiere on NBC on Friday, December 9 at 9:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time (02:00 UTC).In response to the cancellation of Three Wishes, many petitions have sprung up throughout the Internet and in dozens of cities. A few petitions are listed below.An NBC employee won US$266 million from the California Lottery's Mega Millions drawing.The winner, wishing to remain anonymous, will receive $165 million in total, after federal taxes, reports spokesperson for the lottery Cathy Doyle Johnston.David Reese, a KNBC assistant manager, was informed by the winner around 2:30 local time Wednesday. Reese told the employees working the night shift to keep the name a secret until the winner wishes to step forward.Reese said the winner worked for NBC as a freelancer for four years, and her husband was laid off two weeks ago.L & L Hawaiian BBQ in Pico Rivera, California, sold the winning ticket with the numbers 9, 21, 31, 36, 43, and the "Mega Number" 8. Danny He, the owner of the BBQ, will receive $1 million from the lottery for selling the winning ticket.According to lottery officials, there was a 1 in 175,711,536 chance in winning with all six numbers with 38 other states and the District of Colombia playing as well.Wednesday was the first of three days for the body of former South African President Nelson Mandela to lie in state at the Union Buildings in Pretoria, at the same amphitheatre where he was inaugurated on May 10, 1994. The amphitheatre was renamed The Nelson Mandela Amphitheatre, by President Jacob Zuma at the Mandela memorial service held in FNB Stadium in Soweto on Tuesday.The weather for the memorial service on Tuesday was inclement, as the day was filled with rain and cold wind. There were logistical "glitches" in ferrying the public to the stadium which resulted in long waiting times. A less than expected attendance by the public resulted in a partially filled stadium. Some sections of the crowd were heard booing the state president Jacob Zuma when his image appeared on the stadium screen, prompting the program director Cyril Ramaphosa to call for discipline amongst the crowd. The discovery that the sign language interpreter was actually signing "rubbish" has since caused uproar in the deaf communities of South Africa and around the world.US president Barack Obama and Mbuso Mandela both received the loudest cheer and standing ovation as they each delivered their tributes. They drew on Mandela's quotations over the years as they delivered heartfelt and spirit stirring eulogies. The GCIS has advised that tight security measures will be taken in Qunu Eastern Cape Province where Nelson Mandela is to be buried. No members of the public or Media are to be allowed near the home stead. The body of the former state man lay in state through yesterday. This morning it was to be transferred from the 1 Military hospital to the Waterkloof Air Force Base and flown by the South African Military to Qunu Eastern Cape Province. The former state man is to be laid to rest amongst his ancestors tomorrow.A statue of former South African leader Nelson Mandela has been unveiled in a ceremony attended by UK premier Gordon Brown and the Lord Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone in Parliament Square.In a speech Gordon Brown, who had private "catch up" talks with Mr Mandela on Tuesday, paid tribute to the 89-year-old, calling him the "greatest and most courageous leader of our generation".The statue was unveiled and Mandela was assisted to a podium by Mr Brown and others, where he made a speech. Addressing Mr Brown, Mandela said he wished him "strength and great wisdom for your term of office".He went on to say it was an honour to have a statue in Parliament Square alongside Winston Churchill and Benjamin Disraeli, and he hoped it would "symbolise all those who have resisted oppression, especially in my country".Mandela then announced that his international AIDS campaign, called "46664" after his prison number during his 27-year incarceration in South Africa, was to hold a concert in Hyde Park, London, on 27 June 2008, in honour of his 90th birthday. He declared he would be returning to England to see it.Mr Mandela ended his speech with his trademark "I thank you" before a musical gospel-style group performed.Nepal's controversial "living goddess" has voluntarily retired from her position at age 11.Eleven-year-old Sajani Shakya has retired from her status as the Kumari of Bhaktapur at the request of her family, an official said Saturday."She is no more a Kumari," said Dipak Pandey, a senior official of the state-run Trust Corporation that oversees the cultural affairs in Nepal, a deeply religious nation.Pandey said that Shakya's family wanted to partake in another religious ritual, a symbolic wedding with a bael fruit, that ensures young Newa women will not be treated as widows if their husband should die before them. The ritual is incongruent with her position as a Kumari.Last year, Shakya made headlines and sparked controversy when she visited the United States to attend the release of the movie Living Goddess, which portrayed three Kumari during the Nepalese Civil War. She risked losing her title because the visit was against tradition, but the threat was later withdrawn.Kumari are believed to be living incarnations of the goddess Kālī. In order to become a Kumari, one must be chosen by Nepal's indigenous Newa people by passing ritual tests and having 32 beautiful physical attributes. Examples of these attributes include having eyelashes like a cow and thighs like a deer.Kumaris automatically lose their status when they menstruate, at which point Kālī supposedly leaves her body. Severe illness or extreme loss of blood are also reasons to have a girl lose her Kumari status.Nepal is a landlocked country famous for having Mount Everest on its border with Tibet. Roughly the size of England, its unemployment rate is at approximately 47%, according to a 2001 estimate.Some human rights activists have petitioned the Supreme Court of Nepal to end the practice because it denies the girl a normal life; the apex court has yet to deliver a judgment.On Saturday, Israel won its fourth victory, first since 1998, at the Eurovision Song Contest, held at Lisbon's Altice Arena in Portugal. Netta Barzilai's song Toy won 529 points from public and professional judges. Cyprus and Austria finished second and third respectively with 436 and 342 points.Out of 43 countries participating this time, 26 countries including hosts Portugal and the Big Five — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom — competed in the finals. The competition began on May 8. Spain and United Kingdom finished in the bottom five while the hosts and last year's winners, Portugal, ended up at the bottom of the vote ranking; collecting respectively 61, 48, and 39 points.Israel won the first semi-final round with 283 points. The 25-year-old Netta won the HaKokhav HaBa competition earlier this year to represent the country in this contest. Netta performed Toy, written by Doron Medalie and Stav Beger, with a Chicken Dance and chicken noises. With a lot of scat singing involved, the song lyrics included, "I'm not your toy; you stupid boy". Her performance included 112 Maneki-nekos, Japanese beckoning cats used as lucky charms, which were placed in two shelves.Apart from the Japanese Maneki-neko dolls, Netta wore a kimono; a Japanese dress, styled her hair in two buns as well as referenced Pokémon, a Japanese anime and video game, in her song, which led to some people including Portuguese writer Joana Ramiro to point out cultural appropriations in her performance. "Can I, however, ask if anyone here has already commented on the quite shocking Japanese cultural bastardisation-appropriation going on in Netta's song?", Ramiro tweeted.Shortly after the contest began, last year's winner Salvador Sobral called Toy "a horrible song". In an interview with Wiwibloggs, Sobral said, "YouTube thought I would like the Israeli song. I opened it and a horrible song came out of it." After winning the contest in Ukraine last year, Sobral had said, "We live in a world of disposable music; fast food music without any content. I think this could be a victory for music with people who make music that actually means something [...] Music is not fireworks; music is feeling. So let’s try to change this and bring music back." Toy's performance used strobe lighting and quirky noises.After Netta was declared the winner, she said, "Thank you so much for choosing different. Thank you so much for accepting differences between us. Thank you for celebrating diversity. Thank you. I love my country. Next year in Jerusalem." Previously, Israel won the contest in 1978 and 1979, and 1998.UK's artist SuRie, who performed Storm, was interrupted in her performance when a stage invader snatched her microphone. UK was given another chance to perform, but SuRie declined after discussing with her team. SuRie said, "We had that conversation, but I was really proud of that performance." "You don't get to do the 100m sprint at the Olympics again because your shoelace is untied or something. You had that one shot and that was my moment, and we didn't need to repeat that [...] We had those conversations backstage, I saw the reaction and faces of my team, who were very proud of the recovery and the power of that, and we didn't need to go again", the British singer added.As the winner of this edition of the competition, Israel is to host next year's competition. Last year, then 27-year-old Salvador Sobral won the competition, receiving 758 points for the song Amar Pelos Dois, a ballad written by his sister.For the preparations of next year's contest, Israeli Deputy Health Minister Ya'akov Litzman wrote a letter to Culture and Sport Minister Miri Regev asking shabbat, the Jewish holy day to rest, not to be violated. In the letter, he wrote, "In the name of hundreds of thousands of Jewish citizens from all the populations and communities for whom Shabbat observance is close to their hearts, I appeal to you, already at this early stage, before production and all the other details of the event has begun, to be strict [in ensuring] that this matter does not harm the holiness of Shabbat and to work in every way to prevent the desecration of Shabbat, God forbid, as the law and the status quo requires". Last year, he submitted resignation after Jewish workers were made to undertake railway work on shabbat. That time, both Israeli welfare minister Haim Katz and Israeli transportation minister Yisrael Katz expressed potential threat to passengers if the railway work was postponed.Activision, publisher of the popular Guitar Hero series of video games which simulate the playing of rock music, has unveiled the next title in the franchise: Guitar Hero: Aerosmith.The game, which will focus entirely on the top-selling American rock band Aerosmith, is set to be released this June. The soundtrack will be composed of songs performed by Aerosmith or otherwise related to the band. Venues featured in the game will highlight different points in the band's career. "The premise is that it's going to cover the 30-plus years of the band, from high school all the way through the rock superstardom of today," said Kai Huang, head of RedOctane, a subsidiary of Activision.Developers even held motion-capture sessions with members of the band so they can appear in-game."We've put a lot of ideas into the game so that fans can have fun interacting with our music, getting inside our body of work and learning about the band's history," said Aerosmith guitarist, Joe Perry.Perry also commented on the effect he hopes the game will have on the music business. "On a larger scale, it's cool for us to be pioneers helping to rebuild the music industry through a format like video games. It's great for rock since the record companies are struggling to make sense of how things are changing. Fans want to get and experience music in new formats--and there are going to be some of them who will play the game, then pick up the guitar for real and start bands. It's what's happening now, and it's only going to build more momentum in the future. It's a massive change for the music business."The game will be released for Xbox 360, Playstation 3, Wii, and Playstation 2. It has not yet been rated by the ESRB.George Lucas has announced that there will be one last Star Wars movie to end the saga, but it won't have any actors visible.Star Wars: The Clone Wars, an animated film is scheduled to be released into theaters on August 15 of this year."I felt there were a lot more 'Star Wars' stories left to tell. I was eager to start telling some of them through animation and, at the same time, push the art of animation forward," said Lucas in a statement to the media.Lucas says that although the film is animated, people can expect the same kind of galactic space battles and action that all the other Star Wars films have. The approximate running time of the film is 100 minutes.The film is produced by Warner Brothers and Lucasfilm LTD. The new movie is also set to continue as an animated, 30 minute "mini-movie" series this autumn. The show can be seen on the Cartoon Network.In the United Kingdom, the music video for this Christmas' remake of the charity single Do They Know It's Christmas? was launched simultaneously today (Thursday) on several UK and Irish television channels including BBC One, BBC Two, RTE 1, ITV1, Channel 4, and Sky One. The debut was made at 17:55 GMT. The song was originally recorded in 1984 by several of the biggest artists of the time including Bono, Bob Geldof, Paul McCartney and George Michael. This year, in celebration of 20 years since the first single, the song has been remade by over 50 of today's best selling artists, including Coldplay frontman Chris Martin, Robbie Williams, Bono, Justin Hawkins of The Darkness and Dido. The song, which is in aid of charity, is already tipped to be the Christmas No. 1 in the UK and Ireland. The song will also be launched as a charity mobile phone ringtone to raise funds for Sudan's troubled Darfur region. Mycokemusic.com said it was going to put the track on its website from Thursday with all profits to be donated to charity. The single will be available to buy in shops from the 29 November.The BBC have announced the appointment of Bob Shennan as controller for BBC Radio 2 and BBC 6 Music. Shennan was previously controller at news and sports station BBC Radio Five Live and head of Channel 4's abortive 4 Digital Group radio venture. Channel 4 had won a licence to launch three digital radio stations but dropped the plans at an advanced stage in the face of the economic downturn.At Five Live Shennan increased listening figures to 7 million. Critics claimed that this was achieved through the introduction of phone-in shows and a decline in coverage of harder news. He also launched the part-time digital-only station BBC Radio Five Live Sports Extra.The BBC's director of Audio and Music told The Stage that Shennan is "an outstanding leader with extensive radio experience and a proven track record in station management". He said that "Bob's energy, enthusiasm and passion for Radio 2 will ensure that the station remains creative and vibrant, and continues to offer unique programmes to the widest possible audience".Radio 2 is Britain's most popular radio station with 13.06 million listeners and a 16% share. 6 Music is the network's digital-only sister station. The post of controller became vacant last year when Lesley Douglas resigned following the scandal over crude phone calls made by Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross to actor Andrew Sachs during a pre-recorded music programme.A new book released today by author Marc Headley, Blown for Good, reveals details inside Scientology headquarters at the organization's "Gold Base", located near Hemet, California. Headley joined the organization at age seven when his mother became a member, and worked at Scientology's International Management Headquarters for several years before leaving in 2005.While an employee of the Scientology headquarters located in Riverside County, California, Headley had the experience of practicing Scientology counseling services called "auditing" with Scientologist Tom Cruise, shortly after the actor had completed work on the film Days of Thunder. In 1990, Cruise was training to become proficient in the Scientology auditing techniques, and Headley was selected to become the actor's auditing partner. Though a young actor at the age of 28, Cruise was already known for his work on films including Top Gun and Born on the Fourth of July.  Headley writes in the book that he was chosen to work with Cruise because he had not yet progressed in Scientology levels, and because he was seen as a low security risk due to his young age at the time. Headley writes that he worked with Cruise for hours and hours each day, for a period of three weeks, on Scientology techniques called "Training Routines".The book provides details of what life was like for the author inside the organization's headquarters. The inner flap of the book includes a map of the "International Headquarters of Scientology; Gilman Hot Springs, California". Headley writes that under the direction of Scientology leader David Miscavige, employees who signed billion-year contracts routinely put in 100-hour weeks of work for minimal pay. According to Headley, possible discipline faced by the Scientology employees for perceived mistakes included being separated from family as part of the Scientology policy of "disconnection", being declared a "suppressive person", or being sent to the "Rehabilitation Project Force", a program where Scientologists were assigned harsh labor.Headley's tasks while working at the Scientology compound Gold Base included dealing with audiovisual equipment used for organization presentations and speeches by Miscavige, and supervising production of thousands of audiotapes of lectures given by Scientology's founder L. Ron Hubbard. From 1989 to 2005 Headley worked at the Scientology film production studio on scripts for movies which would be used to instruct new members of the organization on its practices. He faced repercussions from Miscavige if he could not meet production quotas. Headley asserts that he was physically abused by Miscavige, a claim made previously by other former Scientology officials in a series of investigative articles published in the St. Petersburg Times.The book gives background on a 9-minute long video of Tom Cruise, leaked to the Internet in January 2008, that featured the actor discussing his views on Scientology. The Church of Scientology's attempts to remove the leaked video from the Internet motivated the group Anonymous to focus its efforts against the organization. Headley writes that initially the promotional video about Cruise was supposed to feature celebrities including Will Smith speaking about the actor, but Miscavige instead insisted Cruise should simply talk about himself. Headley describes a form of Miscavige's management previously related in the St. Petersburg Times, where the Scientology leader made his staff play musical chairs to the Queen song "Bohemian Rhapsody". Miscavige told 70 Scientology executives that they were to compete for chairs, and that only the last individual left after several rounds would remain at the compound, while the other executives would be assigned to remote locations. After a dramatic competition with multiple staffers in tears that they would be separated from their families, Miscavige stated no one would be removed from the compound.In 2005, Headley left the Scientology compound in Hemet on a motorcycle, and fell off his vehicle after being chased by Scientology security guards. Riverside County police helped Headley escape from the Scientology security. Headley traveled to Kansas City to meet his father. He was later joined by his wife Claire who had also worked at the Gold Base compound.Headley filed suit against Scientology in January 2009. In the legal case, he asserts that Scientology violated United States labor law with regard to his treatment while an employee of the organization. Headley and his lawyer Barry Van Sickle succeeded against attempts by the organization to get the suit dismissed. Headley's lawsuit is set to begin in U.S. federal court in November 2010.American talk radio hosts John Kobylt and Ken Chiampou discussed the book Wednesday on their program The John and Ken Show on KFI. "This is, the Scientology cult, is I guarantee you, a thousand times more bizarre than you could have ever imagined. And what these celebrities do, like Tom Cruise, is a thousand times more strange than you could ever imagine. I have never read about behavior like this in my life, I can't imagine it. It's really weird," commented one of the hosts about material revealed by Headley in the book. Headley writes in the book that he started to question his involvement in Scientology when secretly listening to The John and Ken Show and watching Conan O'Brien make fun of Scientology celebrities. The National Enquirer reported on the release of Blown for Good, calling it an "explosive new book".The book was reviewed Wednesday by the Editor in chief of The Village Voice, Tony Ortega, who characterized it as a "remarkable account". "Headley's book also provides stunning material that has rarely been collected in one place, even with the Internet's deep resources on L. Ron Hubbard's strange creation. Headley's story provides a damning account of life working for Scientology leader David Miscavige at the secretive desert base", wrote Ortega in the review. He commented, "Perhaps the best service that Headley provides with Blown for Good is giving non-Scientologists the sense of what it's really like to work, day in and day out, in such a strange organization, from the lowliest laborer mucking out excrement in a Gold Base pond (Headley says shit was coming out of his ears and pores for days) to what kind of luxuries the celebrities and high-ranking members enjoy."Success may be too much of a good thing for the future of storied BBC series Doctor Who. After the unexpected popularity of last Saturday's return of the series to BBC airwaves, the star of the show is calling it quits from fears of typecasting.According to a report from the BBC, actor Christopher Eccleston, who injected a edgier and sexier image onto the title character plans to leave the series once his 13-episode commitment is over later this year. Eccleston told reporters that his last appearance as The Doctor will be for a December Christmas special.The show, which debuted March 26 after a 16-year hiatus, was the highest-rated television show in the UK that night. With an estimated viewership of about 10.5 million at its peak, more than 44 percent of all television households in the country tuned in to see the new Doctor. "The audience's response for the new Doctor Who has been incredible and I am really proud to be part of it and I hope viewers continue to enjoy the series," Eccleston said in a BBC release. But that popularity was a double-edged sword for Eccleston. With roughly half the population seeing him as Doctor Who, he feared that once typecast as a science fiction Time Lord, audiences may not accept him in other roles. At one year, Eccleston will be the shortest-lived Doctor after Paul McGann who starred in the 1996 telemovie.But the television network airing the show wants more of the crowd pleaser. The BBC has committed to producing a second 13-episode run of the reinvigorated series and says it is in talks with actor David Tennant to take on the role. Tennant is a star of the BBC period drama, Casanova.In the announcement of the renewal of Doctor Who, the BBC did say it re-signed series co-star  Billie Piper, who agreed to reprise the role of the Doctor's sidekick for series two.A debate has been launched by almost 300 people, seeking further research into William Shakespeare and the many masterpieces attributed to him. The group, named the Shakespeare Authorship Coalition, are reluctant to believe that the Bard wrote all of the plays that make him internationally famous, and are keen to unravel the mysteries surrounding his life and work.Although it is widely accepted that Shakespeare existed and penned many works, the group question why all records of Shakespeare are non-literary, and how so many high-quality plays could be written by someone born into an illiterate household. The Coalition also asks why none of his plays mention his home town of Stratford-upon-Avon, and also how a 16th Century commoner could have such extensive and accurate knowledge of the worldwide settings in which they take place.Conspiracy theories since the 18th century have claimed that the works could have been written by authors using the pen name Shakespeare, particularly Francis Bacon, Christopher Marlowe and Edward de Vere. Sir Derek Jacobi, actor and member of the Shakespeare Authorship Coalition, believes that the famous plays could have been written by more than one writer. "I subscribe to the group theory," Sir Derek said. "I don't think anybody could do it on their own." A "declaration of reasonable doubt" was presented to Dr William Leahy, Head of English at London's Brunel University. Speaking about the conspiracies, he said, "It's a legitimate question, it has a mystery at its centre and intellectual discussion will bring us closer to that centre." The Coalition has set up a website, inviting people to sign the declaration and keep up-to-date with new research.Thursday, June 2, 2005 Britain's National Gallery revealed on Friday that by X-raying one of Leonardo Da Vinci's paintings, "Virgin of the Rocks", they have found a drawing beneath the surface of the painting. The drawing is of a woman who is raising her arm and looking downcast. The drawing had been previously dismissed as a mere copy of a similar drawing that is hanging in Paris' Louvre museum.New Jersey has reversed its plans for a state-wide ban on bikini waxing after salon owners from across the state spoke out against the proposal.The New Jersey Board of Cosmetology and Hairstyling planned to consider a ban on so-called "Brazilian waxes" in response to two women who reported being injured during a wax.But state Consumer Affairs Director David Szuchman, who oversees the board, asked them to abandon the ban in favor of reviewing and establishing safeguards for those who provide the service."Many commentators have noted that the procedure could be safely performed," Szuchman wrote in a letter to state board President Ronald Jerome Brown, according to the Asbury Park Press. "I, therefore, believe that there are alternative means to address any public health issues identified by the board.Salon owners from across the state expressed relief with Szuchman's decision."It was an unnecessary issue," spa owner Linda Orsuto told the Associated Press. "In New Jersey especially, where the government has been picking our pockets for so long, it was like, 'Just stay out of our pants, will you?'"Although millions of Americans get bikini waxes, which generally cost between $50 and $60 per session, the practice comes with risks. Skin care experts say the hot wax can irritate delicate skin in the bikini area, and result in infections, ingrown hairs and rashes.Waxing on the face, neck, abdomen, legs and arms are permitted in New Jersey. Although state statutes have always banned bikini waxing, the laws are seldom enforced because the wording is unclear.If the measure had passed, New Jersey might have become the only US state to ban the practice outright.Although Szuchman's letter was crafted more as a recommendation than an order, media reports said the ban would likely never be approved without his support because his office oversees the board.Chris Christie, governor of the US state of New Jersey, complained on ABC's Sunday morning talk show This Week that TV series Jersey Shore promotes a negative image of the state. Prompted by a feature in The New York Times on Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi, one of the stars of the MTV show, interviewer Jake Tapper asked the governor whether he thought the series was positive or negative for the state. Christie unequivocally answered that the show was "negative for New Jersey... It takes a bunch of New Yorkers, drops them on the Jersey Shore, and tries to make America feel like this is New Jersey". He concluded, "I can tell people: they want to know what New Jersey really is? I welcome them to come to New Jersey any time."In a wide-ranging interview the governor also faced questions about local and national politics, including New Jersey's US$11 billion budget deficit. Specifically, he was challenged over his plans to not pay $3 billion into public pension funds, payments described by the interviewer as a "legal obligation". He said that he "wasn't going to put $3 billion into a failing pension system" and that there would be further reforms of pensions and health benefits.Christie was further questioned over his ongoing conflicts with teachers unions. He responded that "we can't have one sector of our society sheltered from the ravages of the recession, at the cost to people who have been hurt by the recession the most", citing the example of construction unions in New Jersey currently suffering unemployment between 35 and 50%.A New Jersey congressman says restrictions on federal stimulus money are hurting gaming destinations like Atlantic City, and he is seeking to repeal a provision banning the use of funds for casinos or other gaming establishments."The demonization of gaming destinations such as Las Vegas and Atlantic City for business travel is wrong, wrong, wrong," U.S. Rep Frank LoBiondo said Friday during a press conference in front of Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City.The $787 billion federal stimulus bill passed in February specifically prohibits casinos from applying for funds for infrastructure improvements and other similar projects. LoBiondo said Atlantic City is losing millions of dollars in business as a result of that provision.Casinos' revenues dropped 19.2 percent in February 2009 month compared to February 2008, according to the New Jersey Casino Control Commission. LoBiondo said $160 million worth of business and 120,000 visitors have chosen other cities for their tourism plans due to the stimulus bill, according to Atlantic City Convention Center figures.The administration also recently determined other groups like nonprofit organizations and local governments may not spend their stimulus money at casino properties. State officials said the rules are damaging a major pillar of the New Jersey economy."Are those jobs somehow less important or less meaningful than those in the manufacturing, retail or financial industries?" said Ken Calemmo, chairman-elect of the Greater Atlantic City Chamber.Anti-gambling officials said the stimulus law does not prohibit casinos from taking advantage of tax breaks, and Atlantic City officials should not complain about the stimulus bill because the city is too reliant on an unreliable revenue stream."There isn't a state, including New Jersey or Nevada, that could gamble themselves rich, any more than an individual could gamble themselves rich," said Tom Grey, field director for StopPredatoryGambling.org. "They should've diversified (the economy) instead of chasing their loss."But Joe Kelly, chamber president, said 35,000 people work at New Jersey casinos, and thousands more around the state work for outside vendors that depend on casinos for their business."It is not just an Atlantic County issue. It is not just a Cape May issue," Kelly said. "There's purchasing done by every county."LoBiondo is working to repeal the provision with U.S. Rep Shelly Berkley, co-chair of the Congressional Gaming Cascus, and has reached out to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, who has a history of representing the interests of the gaming industry.New Jersey is considering a state-wide ban on Brazilian waxes, the removal of hair from the bikini area.Although genital waxing has never really been allowed in the state, the New Jersey Board of Cosmetology and Hairstyling plans to propose a ban with more specific legal wording, in response to two women who reported being injured during a wax. The board will consider the proposal at their next meeting on April 14.If the measure passes, New Jersey may become the only US state to ban the practice outright. Although millions of Americans engage in bikini waxes, which generally cost between $50 and $60 per session, the practice comes with risks. Skin care experts say the hot wax can irritate delicate skin in the bikini area, and result in infections, ingrown hairs and rashes.Waxing on the face, neck, abdomen, legs and arms would continue to be permitted in the state under the proposed ban. Although New Jersey statutes have always banned bikini waxing, the laws were unclear and seldom enforced.As a result, many salons from around the state have offered bikini waxing for years. Many salon owners spoke out against the proposed ban, which they said would severely damage their business."I really don't know if the state can stop it at this point," said Valentia Chistova, owner of the Monmouth County salon Brazil. "I know a lot of women who are really hooked."A new Michael Jackson single and compilation album is going to be released in October of this year. "This Is It" is the name of what would have been Michael Jackson's tour, the name of his documentary film, and now a new single and compilation album — both titled "This Is It" — which will be released from his record label Sony Music Entertainment.  Sony Music confirmed the plans to release the new two-disc compilation album and single.  John McClain, who co-produced the album, said: "This song only defines, once again, what the world already knows — that Michael is one of God's greatest gifts."The single will become available from October 12 this year. It is unknown when exactly it was written and recorded although it has been recently reported that he had been working with such artists as Akon and Will.i.am before his death on June 25, 2009. The track features backing vocals from Jackson's brothers and will also feature on the compilation album.The compilation album will be released internationally on October 26 and in North America on October 27 — just one day before the documentary film will be released.  The album will have two discs.  The first disc will feature some of Jackson's greatest hits, with the "This Is It" single being the last song.  The second disc will feature previously unreleased versions of some of the songs from the singer's catalogue of big hits.  The CD will also contain a 36-page commemorative booklet featuring photos of Michael Jackson from his last "This Is It" rehearsals.A look at some of the movies set to be released in North America, the week of 9 September, 2005.Note, "fresh" or "rotten" refer to the movie's Rotten Tomatoes rating, based on North American critical reviews. The higher the percentage, the greater the percentage of critics that liked the movie.The 4th National Museum of Japan opened on Saturday in Dazaifu, Fukuoka Prefecture, the northern part of Kyushu island. The new museum was named Kyushu National Museum, and nicknamed "Kyuhaku". It is the first national museum in Kyushu, including national art museums and thematic museums.  After the opening ceremony with around 800 invited guests on last Saturday, Kyushu National Museum began to accept visitors starting on Sunday.Different from its three sister museums which are over 100 years old and interested mainly in fine-arts, the new museum focuses on history. It also has an ambition to display how Japanese culture has developed from the prehistoric period to the mid 19th century with its collection of some 920 items including three national treasures. Its mission statement says the museum show how the Japanese culture has developed from the view of Asian history studies. Cultural interaction between other Asian countries is also a part of its mission, locating near to Korea or China.Dazaifu, Fukuoka is a historic site in Japan and that was a part of reasons why it received the honor of hosting the new museum, the focus of which will be on history. Since the 7th century the extension of central government, Dazaifu was situated there from which the name of modern city derives. It was the military and administrative center of the government as well as the diplomatic center of Japan which hosted East Asian guests who visited Japan. Later the Mongol and Korean allies attempted to invade Japan in the 14th century, Dazaifu became one of fierce battlefields. Also Dazaifu is known its religious significance with Dazaifu Temmangu Shrine, one of famous cults in Shintoism which worships Sugawara no Michizane, the kami of scholars and studies. In addition to those tourist interests, the new museum is expected to stimulate tourists in much wider generations and interests.Kyushu National Museum holds a special exhibition celebrating its opening from its public opening day till November 27. During this exhibition it will open everyday, though normally on Monday it will close.A new memorial opened in Berlin on Tuesday in honor of homosexual victims of the Nazis. The monument also aims to address the discrimination towards and social stigma surrounding homosexuality in today's society by confronting visitors with an image of a same-sex couple kissing.The monument is a sloping gray concrete slab on the edge of Berlin's Tiergarten park, which echoes the vast field of smaller slabs that make up Germany's memorial to Jewish victims of the Holocaust, opened three years ago across the road.Nazi Germany declared homosexuality a deviation that threatened the German race and convicted some 50,000 homosexuals as criminals. An estimated 10,000 to 15,000 gay men were deported to concentration camps where few survived.Berlin Mayor Klaus Wowereit stated that he regrets the lengthy time it took to honor the Nazis' gay victims.The federal government financed the €600,000 building costs, while Berlin's city government provided the site.Germany has allowed gay couples to become registered partners at registry offices since 2001, however the law falls short of permitting formal marriage. Berlin has a large gay community, as do other major German cities such as Cologne, Hamburg and Munich.The new PlayStation 3 is getting more people lining up in stores than people walking out. EBay has pages full of PlayStation 3s, retailing at US$500-$600, auctioning at about US$3,000 up to US$5,000. The gaming console, which would normally sell for between five to six hundred dollars, sold out in minutes at stores across the US.Some incidents of violence have been reported. Two gunmen in Putnam, Connecticut, for example, came up to 15 to 20 people standing outside Wal-Mart a little after 3:00 a.m. EST and demanded money. One man resisted and was shot in the chest and shoulder. Police are now searching for the suspects.EBay is restricting PlayStation 3's to only experienced eBay sellers with high ratings. Only one PS3 can be listed per eBay account. The listing has to include a photo of the pre-order receipt and the seller must guarantee shipment within 30 days starting from the date of purchase.One individual stood in line for 3 entire days in order to purchase the PS3. He claimed to have bought the game console for $300 and then sold it on Ebay for a grand total of $3000.At 10.45 local time, Crown Princess Mette-Marit of Norway gave birth to a boy at Norway's national hospital, the Rikshospitalet University Hospital in Oslo. The new prince is third in line to the throne. "All is well with mother and son," Crown Prince Haakon confirmed at a press conference later that day. Due to strict official protocol the name will not be made public until Monday, when King Harald will gather the "State Council", or the cabinet, and inform the government. Usually the Prime Minister will announce the name in front of the Royal Palace.  Latest news : The prince is named Sverre Magnus.Recently the professional filmmaker association Loin de l'Œil started to produce a set of three documentaries (90~120mn) about nonviolent movements in India. From the 70's, to the largest nonviolent struggle (after Gandhi's one) that happened in October 2007, and called Janadesh.This content is dedicated to be liberated via a special website, experimenting for the first time the "funding and licensing" model to release under Creative Commons licenses:"The idea is that the more people donate to the project, the more freedom the movies achieve, moving along a scale with the CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 and the CC BY-SA 3.0 licences at the two extremes. Look at this freedom gauge to track the progress of donations." Daniela Faris, iCommons, Webmaster.The project name "then you win" comes from the famous quote:"First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.", Mahatma Gandhi.The budget could be reduced about 30-40% by using exclusively free software, collaborative work, and bypassing numerous middlemen. Audience is still low because of the project's youth but getting more and more interest from the free culture community, the most significant support came from Lawrence Lessig who became the first online donor.Further promotional and release plans have been announced by The Walt Disney Company's new special, "Phineas and Ferb's Christmas Vacation," from the company's cartoon comedy Phineas and Ferb. According to the company's press release site (Disney XD Medianet), on November 27, Disney will stream the seven musical numbers, performed by the show's cast and the band Big Bad Voodoo Daddy, that will be showcased in the special on its public radio network Radio Disney. iTunes will then follow by making the songs available for download. The official special is scheduled to air the following week, on December 6, on the company's cable network Disney XD with a repeat immediately following it. The proceeding day, Disney Channel SVOD, Disney XD VOD, Disney XD Mobile, iTunes, and Xbox Live Marketplace will release the episode for digital retail. On December 11, fellow Disney network Disney Channel will broadcast the special following a six-hour marathon of the series; the next day, Disney Channel and Disney XD's websites will release the special for viewing. On December 18, ABC Family will air the episode as part of its month-long event "25 Days of Christmas." Finally, to help the special's promotion, costumers dressed as the show's characters will perform on December 25, 2009, in the "Disney Parks Christmas Day Parade" which will be broadcast on the ABC Television Network.Disney also confirmed that actors Clancy Brown, Malcolm McDowell, Jane Carr, Mathew Horne, and Bruce MacKinnon will each guest star in the special.Drew Barrymore and Justin Long have been cast in a romantic comedy called Going the Distance.The New Line Cinema film is to be directed by documentary filmmaker Nanette Burstein, who made the films The Kid Stays in the Picture and American Teen. It will be Burstein's feature film debut.Going the Distance, written by New Line staffer Geoff LaTulippe, will focus on a couple dealing with challenges arising from a cross-country romance. Media reports did not indicate a release date had been determined.The film is being produced by Adam Shankman and Jennifer Gibgot via their independent production company, Offspring Entertainment.Barrymore and Long last appeared together in the 2009 film, He's Just Not That into You, which grossed $145 million worldwide. The duo dated in real life, but broke up in July after dating for about a year.The New Zealand government has said that it prefers building a new stadium at Auckland's waterfront to host the grand final of the 2011 rugby world cup, instead of upgrading Auckland's current stadium, Eden Park.The preference was made public by the Honourable Trevor Mallard who is the minister for the rugby world cup that will be hosted in New Zealand in 2011.The new stadium hasn't yet been confirmed and is awaiting November 24, which is the date when the Auckland council will give the government their views on the two options available to them; waterfront or upgrade.According to Mr Mallard the waterfront will cost altogether around NZ$497 million compared to the cost of an upgrade of Eden Park of $385 million. However that pricing is only based on concept drawings at this point in time. The government will provide half of the funding for the waterfront stadium but they will only provide funding for the Eden Park upgrade if it was considered to be for regional purposes and not a national stadium.Mr Mallard said: "The government has decided that a waterfront location is the option that can most meaningfully contribute to the Government's vision for Auckland as a truly world-class, international city. This has been a finely balanced call with little difference between the two options in terms of cost and construction timelines. Advice from the experts shows that both can be delivered on time."The greatest concern facing the government is if they will be able to build the new stadium in time but construction will being in December 2007 to be finished by 2010, and also investigators said that it would be possible. "We have had advice from Australasia's leading stadium designers, engineers, architects and construction experts. There is a unanimous view that the waterfront stadium is a challenge, but eminently achievable," Mr Mallard said."In making its decision, the government believes that a sports stadium has the ability to contribute to the identity of Auckland and New Zealand. A national stadium will be as much a focal point of Auckland's landscape as Rangitoto or the Sky Tower. We also believe the construction of an iconic facility such as this will help drive Auckland's aspirations for the development of the waterfront and CBD."Referring to the upgrade of Eden Park, Mr Mallard said: "One of the greatest concerns is that its application for consents has unacceptable uncertainty as to the timing and outcome of the consents within the construction time available. There is also risk around the lack of flexibility in a residential area around construction times, should delays or problems with construction arise."The government will also need to pass a special bill that will enable them to build the required options because of consent issues.The government had also considered these following options: Eden Park (various options), CBD waterfront (various options), North Harbour Stadium, Manukau Harbour (adjoining Westfield station), The former Carlaw Park, Mt Smart Stadium, Avondale Racecourse, The Auckland Domain and Jade Stadium.A new Australian adult video game classification, R18+, came into effect starting yesterday.The new rating brings greater consistency between Australia's systems of video game ratings and film ratings.  Previously video game classification went no higher than MA15+, so more adult video games would have to be either classed as MA15+ or denied classification.The government passed the legislation in June after a deal was agreed between the states, territories, and Commonwealth.Video game ratings have been the center of long running public debate in Australia with some interest groups concerned that children may gain access to more violent games while proponents claim that the new adults only rating will guard children from inappropriate content.The deal which allowed the legislation to proceed was struck after John Rau became Attorney General of South Australia. Mr Rau has been a vocal supporter of the change.Merriam–Webster announced that it has added over a hundred new words to the pages of its Collegiate Dictionary. Notable among these additions include: webisode, a television episode viewed from the web; staycation, a vacation that occurs near one's home; and vlog, a form of blog that features videos.Two recurring themes among the new words included "government activities" and words of Arabic origin.  The term "waterboarding" reflected the former theme, and was defined as "an interrogation technique in which water is forced into a detainee's mouth and nose so as to induce the sensation of drowning".The practice has been used on detainees at the Guantanamo Bay Detention Center, and its usage has drawn criticism from legal experts and human rights advocates who consider it to be a form of torture. Webster's does not include the word "torture" as part of its definition.The latter theme was represented by such terms as shawarma, a Middle-Eastern sandwich, and Haram, which means forbidden under Islamic law.Other additions included carbon footprint, green collar, and zip line.Called the "Carrie Bradshaw" of bloggers by the New York Times, Manhattanite New Yorker Stephanie Klein's online musings in her personal blog, Greek Tragedy, has gained the attention of Hollywood and the book industry while it draws comparisons to former HBO television series, Sex and the City.Since January 2004, Klein has written her blog which goes into the intimate details of her life as a 29-year-old professional divorced single woman living on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, one of New York City's most upscale neighborhoods. Since then her blog has become among the top 1 percent most-read blogs in the world, according to Technorati's "net attention" ratings system.That popularity grabbed the attention of two international media conglomerates, News Corporation and NBC Universal. News Corp.'s HarperCollins book division struck a book deal with Klein valued at more than $500,000. The book is scheduled to debut in April 2006.Comparisons to Sex and the City may continue, as NBC Universal is developing the blog-based book into a fictionalized weekly sitcom version of Klein’s life for its NBC television network.The New York Giants defeated the New England Patriots 17-14 to win Super Bowl XLII at University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, Arizona, Sunday night. A touchdown by the New York Giants in the last seconds of the very tight game disrupted the New England Patriots' quest for a perfect, undefeated season.The Patriots attained the lead early in the second quarter, and regained it with 2:42 left in the 4th quarter, losing it only when the game-winning touchdown was scored by Plaxico Burress with 35 seconds left to play."The drive at the end there were so many clutch plays by so many guys. It is an unbelievable game and an unbelievable feeling," said Giants quarterback Eli Manning.The first quarter started off with a 16 play drive by the Giants which took up nearly 10 minutes and ended in a field goal. Three seconds into the second quarter, the Patriots answered back with a 1 yard run from Laurence Maroney after a pass interference call.The third quarter of the game was scoreless. With 11:05 remaining in the fourth quarter, Eli Manning threw a five yard pass to David Tyree, making the score 10-7. The Patriots then made the score 14-10 on a seven yard pass from Tom Brady to Randy Moss.The next drive for the Giants proved to be the winning one, with Tyree catching a pass that led the team to the Patriots' 24 yard line; Plaxico Burress' following touchdown reception was enough to regain the lead and win the game. Eli Manning was named the Super Bowl Most Valuable Player and was awarded the Pete Rozell Trophy."This is the greatest feeling in professional sports. For us to come out and win a world championship tonight -- nobody gave us a shot," said Plaxico Burress.The New York Public Library launched a new website that offers over 275,000 historic images culled from the library's collections. The images have been digitized by the library's Digital Imaging Unit with assistance from outside contractors, according to a press release issued by the library.Most of the images are over 100 years old, and many have entered the public domain. Despite the public domain status of the images, the library will be charging for reproduction rights for the images. The images are freely downloadable for "personal use." The library's FAQ notes that, "This use is solely for one’s private study or display, and the image(s) are not to be disseminated."In an email to a Wikinews reporter, Tom Lisanti, the library's Manager of Photographic Services & Permissions noted that, "The usage fee is not a copyright fee. You are free to obtain a copy of these images from a source other than NYPL. Usage fees help ensure that the Library is able to continue to acquire, preserve and provide access to the accumulated knowledge of the world."The issue of whether the library is creating a new work with a new copyright when it scans in the public domain images has not been resolved, according to Stanford Law School professor Lawrence Lessig.In an email to the same Wikinews reporter, Lessig writes, "This hangs on a tough, unresolved question: whether the digitization produces a 'thin' copyright around the public domain work. That copyright would not forbid you from extracting the public domain component, though how you would do that is hard to see (and hence this is a hard question)."The New York radio station HOT 97 has apologized after one of its DJs played a song making light of the recent tsunami catastrophe in Asia.The 'Tsunami Song' was played by 'Miss Jones' on the hip hop and R&B station's Morning show earlier this month. Miss Jones and station management later apologised on-air.Miss Jones and the Morning team have now been suspended indefinitely.Expand this article!The Auckland 'Boobs on Bikes' parade for next weeks annual sex industry convention, Erotica Expo which features naked woman on motorcycles has been approved by Auckland City Council's events and promotion staff despite disapproval by Auckland Mayor, Dick Hubbard and 13 other Auckland City Council councillors.The mayor and the other councillors have signed a petition to withdraw the permit. Hubbard said "I think such a parade down Queen Street is totally inappropriate because it's shamelessly promoting a pornography trade fair. It's particularly degrading to women."However, the organiser of the expo, Steve Crow, says Mr Hubbard's opposition is morally based.All other previous parades had been held informally. Steve Crow, organiser of the parade and expo said "He only asked the council and the police if they wished to be involved as a matter of courtesy, and the parade will go ahead regardless. It's legal under New Zealand law. They can basically go to hell; we're going to do it." Crow said the only reason they asked for permission this year is to have police involvement for spectators' safety.A spokeswoman for the Mayor said "The proposed route for the tour would pass a kindergarten and school. It's the councillors that have got upset about it due to huge public reaction by people saying they didn't want it," the council has received numerous complaints to the parade.Bob McCoskrie, Family First national director said "[We are] offering support for the topless porn girls by making bras and sweatshirts available. Typical of Auckland weather, there’s a high likelihood it’ll either be cold and/or wet. We’re genuinely concerned for their welfare and health."The Councillors are meeting today, August 16, to try and withdraw the permit that gives the parade green lights throughout Queen Street. Their decision is due sometime late today.On Tuesday, the New Zealand government announced the start of a public process to suggest designs for a new national flag, and determine whether their citizens would prefer a different national flag over the current one.The current New Zealand flag is partially based on the United Kingdom's flag; the new one would be unique to New Zealand. The government's Flag Consideration Project has planned a number of conferences and roadshows as part of this process, with the first meeting set to take place in Christchurch on May 16. According to the New Zealand Herald, Emeritus Professor John Burrows, the chairman of the project's panel of twelve, said New Zealand's flag has never before been open to public choice.Professor Burrows also said resources and kits would be accessible for schools and communities, "For example, schools can run their own flag discussions and referendums to mirror the formal process as part of their own learning exercise". People were encouraged to submit their designs online at www.flag.govt.nz and suggest what the flag should mean on www.standfor.co.nz. Names of participants would be engraved, at their option, on a flag pole monument to be built in the nation's capital, Wellington.New Zealand's Prime Minister John Key said he believes redesigning the flag now has a "strong rationale".  Mr Key promoted the campaign for a unique New Zealand flag on Waitangi Day — February 6 — this year. Of the public process, he said, "In the end I'll have one vote in each referendum just like every other New Zealander on the electoral roll".The New Zealand government intends to hold two referendums to reach a verdict on the flag, at an estimated cost of NZ$26 million, although a recent poll found only a quarter of citizens favoured changing the flag. This is a decrease from the year before, when it was forty percent. The first referendum is to be held from November 20 to December 11, selecting a single new flag design out of about four finalists. Voters would then choose between the new flag and their current flag early in 2016.The New Zealand national rugby team has defeated the Irish equivalent 21-11 in a home rugby test match at Wellington's Westpac Stadium. New Zealand has not lost to Ireland for 103 years, with one draw being the closest Ireland have come to a victory.The score was tied at 11-11 with 20 minutes remaining in what was New Zealand's first match since exiting the World Cup. However, New Zealand's All Blacks were able to break through Ireland's defences to score a victory.Conditions at Westpac were unusually bitter for the match. "I don't know if I've played in much colder than that," said Irish captain Brian O'Driscoll, and similar thoughts were echoed from All Black counterpart Richie McCaw. "It's probably the coldest game I've ever played in. I've never got cold out on the field but after half-time I was shivering. It was nasty."New Zealand centre Conrad Smith commented that "There was one point there are the end when one of the Irishmen went down that both teams were running around in circles doing their own thing (to keep warm). I just looked around and thought 'this is stupid'."Graham Henry, All Black coach, said that he felt the match had been "a lottery."Italian car company, Fiat, has used the haka to advertise its new car and New Zealand diplomats says it is culturally insensitive. The ads have gone to air in Italy and are viewable on their website.The ad features woman wearing black and performing the haka: Ka Mate, which was written by the chief of Ngāti Toa, Te Rauparaha. It is also the haka that is performed before every rugby game played by the New Zealand team, All Blacks.The women perform the haka beside the new Fiat car and crowd noise is in the background to simulate the atmosphere in an All Blacks rugby match. As the haka is finished a woman drives away in the Fiat car and a boy in the back of the car pokes out his tongue, which is the action used to finish the haka.The New Zealand Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade (MFAT) said that they were told in April that an advertising company was planning to use the haka. Yesterday (July 3) Brad Tattersfield, a spokesman for MFAT, said "at the time we advised the advertising company that the use of Ka Mate in this way was culturally insensitive and inappropriate. MFAT advised the advertisers to either use a Maori group or a haka composed for women. However, the advertising company indicated they were proceeding despite this advice."Garry Nicholas, general manager of Te Toi Aoteroa, which promotes and protects Maori art and culture, said that he felt mixed feelings about the ad. "This isn't a haka in my view but is certainly based on haka. It's meant to be in fun and the little boy poking his tongue at the end of the clip makes that very clear."South Africa crashed out of the 2011 Cricket World Cup after being beaten by New Zealand in the quarterfinals, played at Mirpur, in Bangladesh. Chasing a victory target of 222, South Africa were all out for 172 after some inspired bowling performance by Jacob Oram and Nathan McCullum.Earlier South Africa restricted the kiwis for 221 for the loss of 8 wickets. Afterward, Jesse Ryder top scored for NZ with 83 runs while Ross Taylor scored 43. Morne Morkel took three wickets while fast bowler Steyn and Spinner Imran Tahir took two wickets each.South Africa collapsed from 121 for three wickets and lost the final seven wickets for 51 runs. McCullum, who opened the bowling for NZ, took three wickets while Oram took another four wickets and triggered a collapse.NZ will now play either Srilanka or England in the semi-finals. India will take on Pakistan in the other semi-final.New Zealand Māori leaders have said that they will try to get a Maori temporary tattoo kit from the Los Angeles store Halloween Town withdrawn from sale, as they find it insulting to the Māori culture. The Halloween Town, a store that specializes in Halloween costumes and accessories, is selling the tattoo kit for NZ$16. The store's website features a photograph of a full facial Tā moko (Māori tattoo) instead of their usual caricatures. Aroha Mead, Victoria University of Wellington Māori business lecturer said that the Tā moko is not frightening, "And he doesn't look scary to me – he looks quite handsome,", but added "There didn't appear to be much that Māori could do. No-one likes to see their culture being denigrated but we are aware that the moko is in the public domain."Rotorua acedmic Ngahihi o te ra Bidois, who has a full facial moko, has asked the Halloween Town store to remove the tattoo kits. "It is insulting ... what they are doing is not portraying Māori correctly," Bidois said.A full-face moko is traditionally restricted to male Māori and is used to represent mana (prestige).A New Zealand Marilyn Manson gig was evacuated after a fire scare. Four songs into the performance by the shock rock act at Auckland Town Hall, a fire scare caused an evacuation of the venue. On-site security stopped the performer from continuing and asked the audience to leave immediately.Fire and ambulance crews responded, but discovered that the alarms had been caused by dry ice smoke machines.Manson was able to continue his performance after a delay of ten minutes.May marks the start of the month-long music festival dedicated to celebrating homegrown New Zealand music. The up and coming band, Spyte, helped to open New Zealand Music Month 2008 by playing a concert at the Cathedral Square in the centre of Christchurch. Gabriel Pollard sat down and talked to the members of Spyte after watching their gig.The annual Kiwi music showcase, which officially began yesterday, had various bands playing, ranging from jazz to heavy metal. While Spyte don't associate themselves with a particular genre as to not restrict themselves, the "unofficial leader" of Spyte, Bex Thomas, told me that they generally play heavy metal like they did today.The band members of Spyte include Bex Thomas as guitarist, Logan Ellis as drummer and Stuart Hunter as bassist. They met each other at Christchurch's School of Rock.They are looking to add new members after dropping some members earlier in the year, including a new drummer when Mr Ellis moves back onto guitar and a vocalist. Because they are yet to secure a vocalist, their current songs are instrumental.Spyte played both of their songs at the Christchurch City Council-organised concert today because a third was not ready in time. Ms Thomas said they didn't have enough time to prepare if they were to play three songs.One spectator listening to Spyte play described their performance as "awesome". Clay Shaw says, "I feel that they produced a very unique sound even though they had to make it quieter than normal due to noise restrictions."When Spyte formed last year they didn't have a name and quickly chose one when asked if they had a band name right before jumping on stage. When asked the origins behind the name, Ms Thomas said, "We didn't want to risk having the same name as another band and it looks better."The band tries to practice around once a week at least, but, as Ms Thomas says, "You can't practice too much if you're a musician."All members of the band are serious about music and all indicate they wish to have a career in music in the future. Ms Thomas says she would like to be a professional musician or a guitar technician, but failing that she would fall back on psychology. She says, "It's hard to get into the New Zealand music industry. You've got to be realistic." Mr Hunter also says he would like to be a professional musician, but is training to become a chef if the former isn't possible. And Mr Ellis says he would like to be a music producer or a session musician.Spyte have so far had three gigs, including today's one but would be able to get many more if they "tried".The New Zealand National party is rejecting the government's ambitions to build a new stadium on Auckland, New Zealand's waterfront for the 2011 Rugby World Cup final instead it is backing the option of an upgrade of Eden Park.Yesterday, Friday, Member of Parliaments (MP) from the National party met with Trevor Mallard, sports minister, to discuss the possibility of a waterfront stadium but National remain unmoved. Deputy leader, Gerry Brownlee, said: "If it was a new car I wouldn't buy it."It was reported that John Key, Gerry Brownlee, Katherine Rich and Murray McCully were all present at the meeting with Mr Mallard. And all of those MPs threw a lot of questions at Mr Mallard.Mr Mallard said: "I actually thought it was a very positive meeting. I thought Catherine Rich and John Key's level of understanding increased and their enthusiasm was very positive."Mr Brownlee said: "The [NZ]$385 million Eden Park costings seemed relatively certain against the $500 million waterfront estimate, where the price would not be known till it's built."The reason for the debate is because to host the Rugby World Cup the venue which is used for the final game has to have 60,000 seats, all of New Zealand's stadiums are currently under that minimum.Mr Mallard confirmed that North Harbour Stadium is also being considered as a "very good back-up option." This is mainly because it can begin upgrading of its stadium before Eden Park or the waterfront stadium. "North Harbour could be called on if you ran into problems with the other options," Mr Mallard said, "There are consenting issues there with buildability and there would still be a lot of transport issues getting people there and there's not a lot of infrastructure around it."The decision of which stadium will be the venue of the grand final of the 2011 Rugby World Cup final will be made this Friday by the Auckland City Council and Auckland Regional Council, which is asking for the public's opinion to help them with their decision. The council's decision is the one the government will go with according to Mr Mallard: "There's no way the Government would override the councils' decisions."Mr Mallard added: "I love Eden Park, and my gut feeling for a long time was to upgrade it. If you like I've got a romantic attachment, so for me if Aucklanders decide that's their approach I will back them."The International Rugby Board also announced the Rugby World Cup will be played around September. 2011 instead of around the June period.The 2006 QANTAS New Zealand Television Awards were announced tonight (NZDT). The winners and their respective categories follow.Best comedy finalists were pulp sport, bro'Town and The Unauthorised History of New Zealand with Pulp Sport taking out the prize.The best observational reality (non format) show out of Snotties, The Zoo and Tough Act was Snotties.Best reality (format) show finalists were Downsize Me!, Sensing Murder and Shock Treatment. The winner being Sensing Murder.Best current affairs report finalist were Alex Teka, Detox Diary, Not Fit to Practise and Turning the Tide. The winner was Detox Diary.Best news or current affairs presenter of the year finalists were Shane Taurima, Willie Jackson, John Campbell and Susan Wood. Winner was John Campbell, the prize was awarded to him by his producer, Carol Hirschfield. Mr Campbell was "stupidly proud."No finalist was for the award of TV journalist so the winner was Mike McRoberts and the first thing he said when he arrived on stage was: "Crikey dick."Peter Day was awarded for current affair camera. Current affairs reporter was Hadyn Jones. The best news or current affairs editor was Shahir Daud.Lifestyle and information programme finalists were House Trap, Target and The Living Room. The winner was Target.The best popular documentary section finalists were Give My Children Back, Earthquake and Million Dollar Tumour (all of which aired on TV3). The winner was Million Dollar Tumour.The best arts/festival documentary was Artsville.The best factual camera was awarded to David Stipson. Paul Sutorius was the best factual editor.Geoff Husson got the award for the best non-drama director.The winner of favourite female, as voted by the public "by a country mile", was Hillary Barry.Public voted favourite male was Simon Dallow taking the award, who was "lost for words...truly shocked..."The favourite programme nominees were Shortland Street, Outrageous Fortune, NZ Idol, Sensing Murder, Downsize Me!, Dancing With The Stars, Target and bro'Town. The winner was, as voted by the public, Shortland Street.Grey's Anatomy won the best international programme as voted by the public.Best sports or event coverage out of Na Ratou Mo Tatou, V8 Supercars Pukekohe or 3 News election night was Na Ratou Mo Tatou (ANZAC day coverage).Best entertainment nominees were What Now; the Gunge and Run Awards, Dave Dobbyn; One Night in Matata and Snatch out Booty and the winner was Dave Dobbyn; One Night in Matata.The best non factual script writer went to David Brechin-Smith.Fred Renata, best camera non factual, and best editing for non-factual went to Bryan Shaw.The best drama director went to Brendan Donovan.Finalists were for best news report team are, "David-Benson Pope" on 3 News, "Robert Hewitt" on One News and "Gaza" on 3 News. Winner was 3 News for "Gaza"."The most important category." Best current affairs show finalists were Fair Go, Sunday, Campbell Live. Winner was Campbell Live, when on stage Mr Campbell said: "Bloody Stoked."Best news finalists were 3 News and One News and the winner was One News.Bruce Adams was awarded with best news camera.Best news reporter was given to Michael Holland.Best children/youth programme winners was Let's Get Inventin'.Best actress finalists were Kate Atkinson, Robyn Malcolm and Kate Elliot. The award was awarded to Kate Elliot.Best actor finalists were Antony Starr, Ryan O'Kane and Scott Wills and the winner was Ryan O'Kane.The last award, best drama, the finalists were The Insiders Guide to Love, Doves of War, Outrageous Fortune. The winner of best drama was The Insiders Guide to Love.Yesterday the Prime Minister of New Zealand, Helen Clark, presented song writer, Don McGlashan with his second Silver Scroll at an exclusive awards ceremony. The song that won him the prestigious APRA music award was the hit song Bathe in the River, which featured in the hit New Zealand movie No. 2 sung by Wellington singer, Hollie Smith.McGlashan won his first Silver Scroll in 1994 for his song Anchor Me when he was with the band The Mutton Birds.Anthony Healey, APRA New Zealand Director, said: "Bathe in the River is a song that captures the hearts and emotions of everyone who hears it. All Don's music is emotive and powerful and this song is no exception. ...Absolute classic."There were four other songs that were finalists in the award that is based on songwriting, not record sales. One other song that was written by McGlashan was a finalist.Other winners at the ceremony were:Richard Bennett was presented with the Maioha Award at the Silver Scroll ceremony for his waiata E Hine (waiata is the Māori term for song and singing).Ross Harris's song Symphony No. 2 won the Sounz Contemporary award for the third time. Harris said: "[It] is intended to convey the terrible sadness of the man-made hell of war."James Reid for the single Stand Up which was the most performed work in New Zealand.Neil Finn took the award, once again, for the most performed work overseas.Evermore were nominated this year after winning the award last year.Police in Napier, New Zealand were amused when a 45-year-old woman called to report the theft of her " carefully nurtured” cannabis plants, that she had been growing in buckets at her home.The crying woman told a constable the plant theft was the fourth from her property in four years."I have had three marijuana plants stolen. They were in buckets," a police communications officer was told, "I am a good person. I am sick of these low-lifes stealing my things."Senior Sergeant Mal Lochrie said that the officer found it hard to stop smiling as the woman gave details of the theft over the phone.The woman has now been warned that her cannabis plantation could have legal consequences. However, Snr. Sgt. Lochrie said no legal action would be taken against her.Newfoundland supporters feel that Craig Sharpe should have won the popular television show Canadian Idol. They say that since Quebec, the home of recent Idol winner Eva Avila, is bigger and therefore Avila got more votes and that Canadian Idol was fixed because Sharpe is a Newfoundlander. Officials at CTV said such talk was nonsense.Residents throughout the province increasingly complained of jammed residential phone lines. It happened so much that a payphone "Vote Craig" campaign was launched. In recent weeks Sharpe supporters drove at night looking for available payphones. Pay phones had a high success rate for registering calls, while home-based lines often got busy signals."Newfoundland knows how to represent their people," Sharpe said. "But you can't make it to the top two with just Newfoundland. You've got to have Canada behind you." "Canadian Idol is not a popularity contest based on region," said Scott Henderson, a spokesman for CTV. "Craig and other finalists from Newfoundland have made it as far as they have in the competition because they receive the support of the entire country."It was the second year in a row that a Newfoundlander finished second on the show. Rex Goudie of Burlington, Newfoundland lost last year to Calgary, Alberta's Melissa O'Neil.Avila beat Sharpe by a three per cent margin, just over 131,000 votes, in the last show that CTV officials said was determined by fans in Western Canada.The news of the death of Michael Jackson yesterday caused problems for web sites and caused hoax reports of other celebrity deaths to be posted. Twitter, where several celebrities immediately posted their comments on the news, saw its update frequency double as soon as the news broke. Facebook's update frequency tripled. Temporary server outages were reported for Twitter, TMZ.com (the site that originally broke the story), and the web site of the Los Angeles Times.On Wikinews, the report of Jackson's death received 1,150 page hits in its first hour of publication, almost 9 times as much as the number of page hits received by Wikinews' second most popular story that hour. At its peak, the Wikinews story received 4,466 page hits in one hour. On Wikipedia, an edit war ensued when users repeatedly deleted references while reports of his death remained unverified. Once a credible source, the Los Angeles Times, verified the story, Wikipedia published the news.Hoax stories sparked by news of Jackson's death included false reports of the deaths of Jeff Goldblum and Harrison Ford. These stories were rapidly revealed to be hoaxes, but some news outlets carried the stories by mistake. The entertainment report on Nine Network's Today show, for example, mistakenly carried the story of Goldblum's death. Goldblum was in fact alive and well in Los Angeles, California, according to an official statement issued by his publicist.The hoaxes originated on a web site that generates superficially genuine but false news reports from pre-set formulae, into which the celebrity name of one's choice can be entered.  One of the options available is for the report to state that the celebrity "dies in New Zealand" at Kauri Cliffs near Matauri Bay.  Because of this, many people attempted to contact New Zealand police, forcing Inspector Kerry Watson of the NZ police to issue the following statement:"Police at Kerikeri are receiving phone calls regarding a person falling from a cliff at Kauri Cliff. There is no such incident and police have no information to provide."This is not the first time that this particular hoax has circulated.  The exact same story, with the same cliffs, circulated about Tom Hanks in 2006 and about Tom Cruise in 2008.  Cruise's publicist, Jeff Raymond, stated at the time that the story was "erroneous and unreliable Internet garbage".The presenter of BBC's Newsnight show, Jeremy Paxman, said on Wednesday he is to leave after 25 years. The BBC said Paxman had postponed his departure, after deciding upon it last summer, because Newsnight was going through "a difficult period".Paxman became a notorious political interviewer after tearing a great number of political leaders apart: In an interview with Michael Howard regarding the 1995 dismissal of the director of the prison service, Derek Lewis, when Howard didn't directly answer a question, Paxman asked again — eleven more times. In an interview with Tony Blair, he asked Blair whether he prayed with US president George W. Bush. More recently, when Conservative MP and junior minister Chloe Smith appeared on the show to defend a change in fuel duty policy, Paxman showed she was apparently too too junior to have any knowledge of the decision making process.Paxman is not leaving his twenty-year role as presenter of University Challenge.Circulation figures dropped an average 1.9% among 814 U.S. newspapers according to research by the Newspaper Association of America industry group. The drop, which continues a 20-year declining trend, is one of the worst 6 month slips since a 1984 circulation peak.Factors such as cable TV and the Internet are named as challengers in the competition for reader attention. Also contributing are scandal-driven changes in the way circulation is calculated. Concerns over the credibility of circulation figures given by some newspapers have gripped the industry and caused 3 of the top-twenty papers to have their figures excluded from the report [see below]. A paper’s circulation is the key figure looked at by advertisers when making spending decisions.Posting slight increases were two rare circulation gainers USA Today and The New York Times. Many papers said drops were partly due to intentional distribution cuts, such as to hotels and schools for example. Another cause was that circulation drives were less successful due to the US National do-not-call registry hampering telemarketer ability to contact potential subscribers.USA TOP 20 PAPERSAverage daily circulation of the nation's 20 biggest newspapers for the six months ended March 31, as reported Monday by the Audit Bureau of Circulations. The percentage changes are from the comparable year-ago period.1. USA Today, 2,281,831, up 0.05%2. Wall Street Journal, 2,070,498, down 0.8%3. New York Times, 1,136,433, up 0.2% 4. Los Angeles Times, 907,997, down 6.5% (a)5. Washington Post, 751,871, down 2.7% 6. New York Daily News, 735,536, down 1.5% 7. New York Post, 678,086, up 0.01% 8. Chicago Tribune, 573,744, down 6.6% 9. Houston Chronicle, 527,744, down 3.9% (a)10. San Francisco Chronicle, 468,739, down 6.1% (a)11. Arizona Republic, 452,016, down 3.2% (a)12. Boston Globe, 434,330, down 3.9% 13. Star-Ledger of Newark, N.J., 394,767, down 1.6% 14. Atlanta Journal-Constitution, 391,373, down 2.4% 15. Star Tribune of Minneapolis-St. Paul, 378,316, up 0.33% (a)16. Philadelphia Inquirer, 364,974, down 3% (a) 17. Plain Dealer, Cleveland, 348,416, down 5.2% (a) 18. Detroit Free Press, 347,447, down 2.0% 19. St. Petersburg (Fla.) Times, 337,515, down 3.2% (a) 20. The Oregonian, Portland, 335,980, down 1.8%Newsday of New York's Long Island; the Dallas Morning News; the Chicago Sun-Times and Hoy, a Spanish-language newspaper in New York, were not allowed to include their circulation figures as a penalty for misstating figures in the past. The first three were among the top 20 a year ago.(a) Includes Saturday circulation.Source: Audit Bureau of Circulations (reported by Chicago Sun-Times)British newsreader Natasha Kaplinsky gave birth to a baby boy earlier this morning at around 08:30 BST. She had been on maternity leave since August 21. Kaplinsky had only been working with Five News just over a month when she announced she was pregnant. Her husband of three years, investment banker Justin Bower announced "We're absolutely thrilled."Kaplinsky first started to work for the BBC in 2002 after a two year tenure with Sky News. She started on the BBC Breakfast show but later moved onto the BBC Six O'Clock News and later became only the third woman to present the BBC Ten O'Clock News. She left the BBC in October 2007.  She also spent a short time with ITV News.Five News released a statement saying "Her colleagues here at Five News are delighted too - and we've sent our best wishes." They also said both Kaplinsky and the baby are doing fine.The deadline for a compromise between Sony and Toshiba in the battle over the next generation DVD format is drawing closer as studios start planning their Christmas releases. Sony, with their Blu-ray Disc format, has already started embedding the new technology into their next-generation gaming console, the Playstation 3.  Meanwhile, Toshiba has secured deals with both NBC Universal and Paramount Pictures to use their format, HD-DVD.  Many industry watchers fear that the battle of these two formats will bring some serious consequences.  Some think this may repeat another VHS and Betamax format war, however others fear that because there is no clear winner, consumers will hold off until there is reassurrance that only one format will survive.  NBC Universal and Paramount Pictures have both withdrawn earlier announcements of releasing movies this year on the next generation formats.  Some industry insiders say it would be unlikely that any movies would be released this year based on a unified format of the two sides as it would take a few months to adjust the technologies from both sides and come up with a single format.Quarterback Brett Favre has been traded to the New York Jets for a conditional fourth-round draft selection in the 2009 NFL Draft. The trade was later confirmed by ESPN and the Jets themselves. The multiple National Football League record-holder was the starting quarterback of the Green Bay Packers from 1992 to the end of the 2007 NFL season. Favre, 38, announced his retirement on March 6, 2008 after much speculation over his future.After a long dispute with the Packers' management, Favre was reinstated by the NFL and was pursued in trade discussions with the Jets and Tampa Bay Buccaneers. The Jets were much more aggressive than the Buccaneers in their pursuit of Favre all along, offering a conditional fourth-round draft choice in the 2009 NFL Draft which could be promoted to a first-round selection based on performance criteria."Brett has had a long and storied career in Green Bay, and the Packers owe him a tremendous debt of gratitude for everything he accomplished," the Packers said in a press release. Jets general manager Mike Tannenbaum said of the trade, "We just felt like this was an opportunity to go get somebody of Brett's stature and what he's accomplished."The trade caps a roller-coaster off-season ride for Favre and the franchise that became synonymous with his legendary No. 4 jersey, which was planned to be retired in the Packers' home opening game. Favre's on-again, off-again retirement has monopolized headlines for the past two months as news began trickling to the media that the legendary passer was second-guessing both his retirement decision and his status in Green Bay. Favre was offered a $20 million dollar marketing contract from the Packers to remain retired. Now, the Jets may have to clear cap space in order to have Favre on their roster — who is due to make $12 million this season — which may call for the release of Chad Pennington. A comment from Jets GM Tannenbaum all but confirmed the release of Pennington. "It's a bittersweet moment for us. I have all the respect in the world for Chad as a person, as a player," Tannenbaum said, adding that an announcement on a transaction involving Pennington will come later Thursday.The Packer's official website states that they will be holding press conferences at noon and 2:00 p.m. CDT and more information will be released then.The Green Bay Packers defeated the Detroit Lions on Sunday evening by a final score of 31–21, effectively ending the Lions' season with an 0-16 record. The game was played at Lambeau Field in Green Bay, Wisconsin and was televised by Fox in the United States. Kickoff was at 1:00 p.m. EDT. The Lions became the first National Football League franchise to complete an "imperfect season" (without a victory) since the introduction of the 16-game schedule in the 1978 NFL season. The winless season comes just a year after the New England Patriots did the reverse, accomplishing the NFL's first "perfect" 16-0 regular season.After trailing the game 14–0 entering the second quarter, Detroit rallied back to tie the game at 14 by the end of the third quarter. The Packers took a 10-point lead halfway through the fourth quarter with a field goal by kicker Mason Crosby (Green Bay 17 - Detroit 14) and then a touchdown pass from quarterback Aaron Rodgers to fullback John Kuhn (Green Bay 24 - Detroit 14). The Lions fought back with a rushing touchdown by Kevin Smith which left Detroit within three points of tying the game. However, just 11 seconds later, the Packers took possession and Aaron Rodgers completed a 71-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Donald Driver (Green Bay 31 - Detroit 21). The Packers held on to the lead for the remainder of the game to seal their sixth victory on the season.Lions quarterback Dan Orlovsky was 22-of-42 for 225 yards with two touchdowns and two interceptions. Calvin Johnson led the Lions in receiving with 102 yards and touchdowns. Kevin Smith led the Lions in rushing with 92 yards and one touchdown.For the Packers, quarterback Aaron Rodgers was 21-of-31 for 308 yards and three touchdowns, and running backs Ryan Grant and DeShawn Wynn rushed for 106 yards each. Wide receivers Donald Driver and Greg Jennings led the Packers in receiving, both tallying over 100 yards.Prior to the Lions' loss on Sunday, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers were the only franchise since the 1970 AFL–NFL merger to finish a season without a victory or a tie. The 1976 Tampa Bay Buccaneers finished their season with a 0-14 record. It was the Buccaneers franchise's first season in the NFL. Tampa Bay also lost the first 12 games of the 1977 season, and the team's 26-game losing streak is still the longest in NFL history. The 1982 Baltimore Colts were the most recent NFL team to not win a game in their respective season, failing to win in the strike-shortened 1982 season, posting an 0-8-1 record.The Lions' loss was closely watched by some members of the 1976 Buccaneers team, including defensive end Pat Toomay. Toomay told reporters, "I would like the torch to be passed...At the same time, you don't want to wish that on anybody." Toomay also pointed out that although the Buccaneers lost every game in their inaugural season, the team reached the NFC Championship Game in their fourth season (1979).Steve Spurrier, the quarterback for the Buccaneers in the 1976 season, voiced his support for the Lions in their quest to win their first game of the season, hoping that only the Buccaneers would hold the distinction of finishing an "imperfect season.""I want that record," Spurrier said. "I'm pulling for them, sure," Spurrier added. "That's the American thing to do, isn't it?"Entering the game, the Lions were 10½-point underdogs against the Packers in spread betting. Lions tackle Gosder Cherilus likened the team's chance to avoid the 0-16 finish as a championship game. "It's our Super Bowl," Cherilus told reporters on Friday, December 27.The Lions surpassed the 1980 New Orleans Saints with their 15th consecutive loss on December 21 to become the first team in NFL history to lose the first 15 games of the season. The 1980 Saints lost their first 14 games, but won their 15th game against the New York Jets.The closest margin that the Lions came to within victory was two points, which came against the Minnesota Vikings on October 12. Minnesota won the game by a score of 12–10. The 1976 Buccaneers suffered five shutout losses (in which they did not score a single point) in their winless season. The closest that the Buccaneers came within victory was a 23–20 loss to the Miami Dolphins on October 24, 1976.Prior to the regular season, the Lions won all four of their games in the exhibition season, which do not count in regular season standings or totals.While the loss didn't come without a fight from the Lions, players from the team knew that they would be forever remembered as possibly the worst team in NFL history. "I've got to live with this," Lions center Dominic Raiola said. "I've been here eight years. This is on my résumé.""I don't ever want to be a part of this again," Lions quarterback Dan Orlovsky said. "We haven't won since, November of '07, maybe? I don't even know the last time we won a game." The franchise's last victory in the regular season was on December 23, 2007 against the Kansas City Chiefs.Packers players were just as eager for a victory. Green Bay's quarterback Aaron Rodgers said while their own season was disappointing, they didn't want to be forever remembered as the team that lost to the 0-15 Lions in the final game of the season. "We didn't want to lose, no, we didn't," Rodgers said. "But really it's not on your mind once the game starts. I didn't even think about it until the fans started chanting in the fourth quarter. They played hard, they really did." Packers fans in attendance at Lambeau Field began to chant "0-16" late in the game.With their victory, the Packers finished their 2008 season with a 6-10 record. With the loss, the Lions finished their 79th season since their inception as the Portsmouth Spartans in 1929. It was the Lions' 75th season in Detroit, Michigan. The franchise also secured the first-overall selection in the upcoming 2009 NFL Draft, a spot reserved for the NFL team with the worst record from the previous season entering the upcoming season.After the game, Lions head coach Rod Marinelli declined to comment on his future with the team. Since being hired in 2006, the Lions have had a 10-38 record under Marinelli. The Lions have averaged 11 losses per season since 2001 and now have lost 23 of their last 24 games. The 0-16 record could be a lasting testimony to the Matt Millen era. With Millen as president of the team from 2001 until he was fired on September 24, Detroit won only 31 games. Millen was widely criticized for his handling of the Lions organization, and Lions fans rallied to have him relieved of duties for years.Before the annual Earth Day on April 22, several environmental-related events were progressively promoted in Taiwan. For example, industrial and academical units promoted several energy-efficiency policies, parts and accessories, and products in three recently-closed trade shows (AutoTronics Taipei, Motorcycle Taiwan, and Taipei AMPA) respectively located at TWTC and TWTC Nangang with the international environmental laws and policies promoted in several nations including Taiwan. Taiwan Railway Administration promoted "Twin-rail Environmental Train" (in Chinese: 兩鐵環保專車) for bicycle and mass transportation industries. And also, HBO Taiwan promoted the movement of "Decreasing chopsticks to save the earth" (in Chinese: 一筷救地球) to drive the public changing habits on common food habits when using environmental tablewares.By the way, he also commented on the upcoming event of "Taiwan Bicycle Day" and "Project of Light-weighted Electronic Vehicle" by ITRI and said:Brenden Morrow scored the game-winning goal, 9:03 into the fourth overtime, as the Dallas Stars defeated the San Jose Sharks 2-1.  The goal gave the Stars a 4-games-to-2 series win, and they advance to the Western Conference Finals, where they'll face the Detroit Red Wings.The game, which took 5 hours and 17 minutes to complete, was marked by the play of goalies Marty Turco and Evgeni Nabokov, who combined for 114 saves.In the second period, the Stars took a 1-0 lead with an Antti Miettinen goal.  However, early in the third period, Ryane Clowe tied the game at 1, with a wrist shot that soared past the outstretched glove of Stars goalie Marty Turco.As the game went into overtime, both teams fought hard for early chances.  Both Turco and Nabokov turned away great chances, including a glove save by Nabokov that appeared to pull his glove above — but not over — the goal line; while the goal light briefly went off, referee Tim Peel waved off the goal immediately.  A video review confirmed that the shot was not a goal.  The Stars outshot the Sharks 18-11 in the first OT.In the second overtime period, the Sharks outshot Dallas a staggering 11-2, but Turco continued to keep the puck out of the net.  A third OT hooking penalty against Nicklas Grossman gave the Sharks the first power play since the second period of regulation, but they were unable to even get a shot on goal, and did not capitalize on the man advantage8:14 into the fourth overtime, a tripping penalty to Brian Campbell gave the Stars a power play.  49 seconds into the power play, forward Brenden Morrow redirected a Stephane Robidas shot to the right of Nabokov, his seventh goal of the playoffs.Turco made 61 saves on 62 shots for the win.  Nabokov made 53 saves in the loss.The game is the eighth-longest playoff game in NHL history, and the third-longest in Stars history.  In 2003, the Stars were defeated by the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim in a five-overtime thriller.  A 2007 game saw the Stars defeated in four overtimes by the Vancouver Canucks.Dallas avoided a deciding Game 7, which would have been held in San Jose.  The Stars won the first three games of the series, but strong performances by San Jose, including a Game 5 overtime win, narrowed the series to 3-2.Nick Hogan, 17, the son of wrestling star Hulk Hogan has been "seriously injured" in a vehicle accident along with one other unnamed individual. Both are reported to have been flown via helicopter to Bayfront Medical Center in St. Petersburg, Florida.TMZ.com reports that police and witnesses say the accident occurred in Clearwater, Florida around 7:30 p.m. (eastern time) on Sunday night while Hogan was driving his Toyota Supra at a "very high rate of speed." He lost control of his car and hit the center median, flipping which then slammed into a palm tree, resting on its back end.The police said the two travelling in the car sustained "very very serious" injuries. They also said that the tree "destroyed the entire car".A police officer was not far behind the car when it flipped over and radioed in for help. Firefighters had to use the 'jaws of life' to cut Hogan and the other individual free from the wreckage.No call was made to 911 and the occupants conditions are not yet known.Chad Kroeger, lead singer of Canadian rock group Nickelback was caught drunk and arrested last week in Surrey, B.C. The investigation started last week after the lead singer was pulled over on June 22 at about 2 a.m. for driving erratically. Kroeger is from Hanna, Alberta, 170 km northeast of Calgary, Alberta. The RCMP said the incident involving Chad Kroeger happened on June 22. Cpl. Roger Morrow said officers in two RCMP vehicles were suspicious of the way a vehicle was being driven, and stopped the car without incident.Charges of impaired driving have been recommended by police against 31-year-old Chad Kroeger to the Crown prosecutor's office. But, no charges have been laid yet. Representatives for Kroeger had no comment.Those trying to view the Nickelodeon channel on Saturday, September 30th need not be alarmed. The popular children's channel will be airing a black screen, starting at 11 a.m, but the channel hasn't ceased.To promote the Worldwide Day of Play, the channel "goes dark from 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. CT, to encourage kids to play outside. In its third year, the Viacom-owned channel attempts to stop childhood obesity through encouraging activity.Nickelodeon has set up "Let's Just Play", a website that lists possible activities for parents and kids to participate in. Nickelodeon also awards one grant to an organization in each state.The program, or lack thereof, is presented by The Alliance for a Healthier Generation, a partnership of The Clinton Foundation and the American Heart Association.No other kids channel will participate in the Worldwide Day of Play.Actor Nicolas Cage was seen around various Washington, D.C.-area monuments this week by Wikinews contributor Patrick Mannion, filming the sequel to 2004's National Treasure. He was seen on March 28 outside on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, sitting in his chair talking with a director. Cage has also been seen in the company of costars from the earlier film. The Memorial was closed to the public by police and park rangers while filming took place.The sequel to the 2004 film, entitled National Treasure 2: Book of Secrets, is currently filming through April 16. In addition to the Lincoln Memorial, crews were also spotted along the Capitol's small Reflecting Pool, outside the White House, and in Layfette Square.The District of Columbia hopes to see a large economic return on the film by granting the long-term filming rights and a financial incentive to keep filming in Washington on-location, instead of doing principal photography and then moving to another city where production costs are cheaper.Actress Nicole Kidman was injured in a car accident while filming the movie, The Invasion. The car reportedly went off course, and ran into a light pole on West Sixth Street in Los Angeles, California."The stunt driver apparently went off course and hit a light post," said Karen Smith, a officer with the Los Angeles Police Department."Nicole Kidman was in the vehicle at the time of the accident and was taken to the hospital for evaluation. She was released shortly thereafter," said a statement issued by Warner Bros. Entertainment, Inc.Kidman, along with eight other people were taken to the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles where all were released with minimal injuries just 2 hours later. All are reported to have returned to work. Paramedics also treated Kidman on scene before she was taken to the hospital."I think she's OK," said Catherine Olim, Kidman's publicist.Kidman was inside a Jaguar.The niece of the Church of Scientology's top leader David Miscavige has come forward publicly with criticism of the organization and of Scientology practices. Jenna Miscavige Hill, daughter of David Miscavige's older brother Ron Miscavige, described Scientology policies which broke apart her family and continue to keep members of her family from talking to each other. Hill criticized Scientology practices in a letter to a public relations spokeswoman for the Church of Scientology and in a broadcast of the television program Inside Edition which aired Tuesday, and was interviewed by an investigative journalist for the New York Post.Hill wrote an open letter addressed to Karin Pouw, Public Affairs Director of the Church of Scientology International, in response to a 15-page statement issued by Pouw on January 14 which was highly critical of Andrew Morton's new book on prominent Scientologist Tom Cruise, Tom Cruise: An Unauthorized Biography. Hill's letter was posted to the Internet newsgroup alt.religion.scientology on January 25, and has since been widely posted on other Internet message boards.  In Pouw's statement on Morton's book, she called it a "bigoted defamatory assault replete with lies". In her letter to Pouw, Hill responded "I am absolutely shocked at how vehemently you insist upon not only denying the truths that have been stated about the church in that biography, but then take it a step further and tell outright lies." Specifically, Hill rebuked the Church of Scientology's denial of a practice called "disconnection", where members are instructed to sever all ties with friends and family who are critical of Scientology and deemed a "Suppressive Person", or SP.Hill wrote that it was this particular policy which broke up her family when she was 16, going on to detail how the Church of Scientology restricted her communications with her parents: "Not only was I not allowed to speak to them, I was not allowed to answer a phone for well over a year, in case it was them calling me."When contacted for a comment on Hill's letter, Karin Pouw told the Agence France-Presse: "The church stands by its statement of 14 January. The church does not respond to newsgroup postings." Hill explained her motivation for writing the letter to the Agence France-Presse: "My intention is to put it on a public forum so they are pressured into changing their ways -- even if it is just to cover for themselves."In a broadcast of the television program Inside Edition which aired Tuesday, Hill spoke with reporter Les Trent about Scientology's disconnection policy. Hill described a pregnant friend whose parents are still members of the Church of Scientology; but will not speak with her: "She lives in L.A. - her parents live right around the hill from her, you know she tried to call them when she was having her first child, and they were like: 'No, sorry, I can't speak to you.'" The Church of Scientology told Inside Edition that the allegation made by Hill is "the opposite of what the church believes and practices." Hill last spoke to her uncle David Miscavige four years ago, around the same time that she viewed a promotional video featuring Tom Cruise, at an awards ceremony. This video was recently leaked to the Internet and appeared on the video sharing site YouTube. YouTube took the video down due to a legal complaint from the Church of Scientology, but though the website Gawker.com received a similar legal complaint, Gawker has stated that the video is newsworthy and will not be removed.Prominent free speech activist and critic of Scientology David S. Touretzky commented on these recent developments, in an interview Wednesday with Wikinews reporter Nicholas Turnbull: "She has nothing to do with Chanology [the recent anti-Scientology movement that has gathered on Internet message boards], but what we're seeing here is a "perfect storm" of entheta [material considered negative by Scientology]. It's all coming together in a chain reaction: The Tom Cruise video, Andrew Morton's bio, Kirstie Alley's craziness, Kimora Lee Simmons, Jenna Miscavige, and there's more to come!" Another critic of Scientology, Mark Bunker of the website XenuTV.com, compared the recent revelations to troubles in Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard's family: "Just as L. Ron Hubbard’s family was rocked with turmoil, so it seems is Miscavige’s." Bunker commented on the Inside Edition piece: "This is a jaw-dropping TV segment — although Inside Edition clearly didn’t understand just how important a story they had."In an interview published Wednesday in the New York Post, Hill stated that she has been harassed by the Church of Scientology for speaking out against the organization: "The church has contacted several of my friends, telling them that I am smearing the church and I am going to be declared a suppressive person and asking my friends if they would disconnect from me and, in at least one case, insisting that they do." The New York Post attempted to contact Karin Pouw for a comment, but she did not respond in time for their publication.In a statement released earlier today, Fox Broadcasting Company announced that British producer Nigel Lythgoe would rejoin American Idol as the television series' executive producer. Lythgoe formerly held the position for the first seven seasons of the series.Lythgoe, who had been with American Idol since its inception, left to concentrate on dancing show So You Think You Can Dance two years ago. Fox said that Lythgoe would continue as a judge and executive producer of So You Think You Can Dance. He will join executive producers Simon Fuller, Cecile Frot-Coutaz, and Ken Warwick for the tenth season of Idol.The announcement, which had been rumored for several weeks, came during a period of falling viewership for the show, as well as the departure of two judges on the show. Simon Cowell and Ellen DeGeneres will not return for the tenth season of American Idol, which begins airing in January 2011. Fox says that it will have selected replacements in time for the show's auditions next month, but who those replacements will be has been the subject of media speculation. Some reports claim that actress Jennifer Lopez or musician Steven Tyler may join the show. Other changes to the show include lowering the minimum age for contestants to fifteen and reducing the results episodes to 30 minutes.Along with friend Simon Fuller, Lythgoe helped to create the UK series Pop Idol, later working with Fuller to bring the series to the United States as American Idol. Working with Idol "not only was an inspirational journey into the heart of American pop culture, it opened my eyes to the untapped potential of the incredibly dynamic young people in this world," Lythgoe said.Finnish symphonic power metal band Nightwish have been added to the billing of the United Kingdom's Bloodstock Open Air (BOA) festival.The annual three day festival will take part through August 15-17. Established in 2005 as a spinoff of the original Bloodstock festival, BOA 2008 also features Dimmu Borgir, Opeth, Soilwork, Iced Earth and Helloween, amongst others.The event, being held in Derbyshire's Catton Hall, will also feature a stage devoted to unsigned bands.Finnish symphonic metal band Nightwish have announced the signing of Anette Olzon, also known as Anette Blyckert, a 35-year-old Swede, as their new lead vocalist.The announcement comes 19 months after original vocalist Tarja Turunen was sacked.Olzen had previously been in the band Alyson Avenue, and was selected from over 2,000 separate applicants for the place in Nightwish. Part of an official statement by the band said “She’s already so much more than we were ever expecting to get. ... The new album will be a monster!!!” The band first met with Olzen earlier this year during Olzen's first visit to Finland.Olzon said she had not previously heard much of Nightwish until shortly before Turunen was sacked. One week after sending Nightwish a demo, she received a personal reply from Nightwish keyboardist Tuomas Holopainen. She was informed at one point, however, that she could not take the part as she was a mother and Nightwish were worried that could impact on their touring schedule, but Olzon forwarded a DVD of a live concert with her previous band that apparently changed Nightwish's mind. She was not told of the band's decision, however, until January 30th this year.Olzon's Former bandmates posted a message to the official MySpace account of their own band, wishing her "all the best" and stated that they "Know That You Will Kick Ass!!" in her new position.Olzen is on the recently released single, "Eva", and has recorded her vocals for Nightwish's sixth studio album, due out in September. The rest of the band is currently in studio finishing the album.Finnish symphonic power metal band, Nightwish, has announced details about their latest studio album, which will be the first to feature new Swedish lead vocalist Anette Olzon, who recently replaced Tarja Turunen.Among the details released is the name of the new album, which until now had been unrevealed. The album will be called Dark Passion Play. Nightwish have also released a full track listing for the album and revealed that as well as Eva, which has already been released, the song Amaranth will be released as a single.Nightwish have also announced release details. The album will debut in the band's native Finland on September 26 from record labels Spinefarm Records and distributed by Universal Music Group. It will be released in the US and the rest of Europe two days later, with the US label being Roadrunner Records and the European label being Nuclear Blast Records. Nuclear Blast will release Amaranth on August 24 and Spinefarm/Universal will release it on August 22.Symphonic power metal band Nightwish have released Dark Passion Play, the album with the highest production costs in the history of the band's native Finland. When drummer Jukka Nevalainen was asked the overall cost of the new album, he was quoted as saying “Roughly half a million... We don’t know the exact sum down to the euros and cents as yet.”Half of this cost was incurred in London, United Kingdom, over an expensive eight days at the Abbey Road Studios, during which time the London Session Orchestra, the Metro Voices Choir, a gospel choir, and two Irish musicians recorded their parts at the studio. The rest was spent during the ten months between September 2006 and June this year, when the band were recording the rest of the album in Finland.The album is the sixth full-length studio album by the band, and sports some impressive figures, boasting the contributions of almost 130 different musicians and requiring a total of almost 250 separate recording tracks. Nightwish is paying for the album via the company Scene Nation, who are entirely owned by Nightwish, and have sold the license for it to Nuclear Blast Records.The album is the first to feature new vocalist Anette Olzon, who earlier this year replaced Tarja Turunen, the latter having departed the band in 2005.The album went platinum (sold more than 30,000 copies) within hours of its Finnish release date of September 26, with 42,000 copies sold.Nightwish are currently rehearsing for a world tour to promote the album.At least nine of Alfred Hitchcock's rare silent films, made at the beginning of his career, will be staged in 2012 in many public screenings, The Independent has reported. These forgotten silent films made by a young Hitchcock are said to feature elements that characterize his later Hollywood works. These footages are going to be released in 2012 and expected to be aired as part of the Cultural Olympiad, although it still needs to be officially confirmed. Robin Baker, the British Film Institute's head curator, calls Hitchcock's silent movie The Mountain Eagle the "holy grail" of lost British films. "It was made in 1926 and was his last silent film featuring a sexually vulnerable young woman and a case of miscarriage of justice," he said to The Independent.Three of Hitchcock's restored silent films are The Pleasure Garden (1925), The Lodger (1927) and The Farmer's Wife (1928).Music producer Phil Spector has been sentenced to life imprisonment, of which he will serve a minimum of nineteen years in prison. This for the murder of actress Lana Clarkson who was shot through the mouth in Spector's Los Angeles home in 2003.The 69-year-old man had spent two trials and millions of dollars before conviction, with his defense being the claim Clarkson had killed herself due to depression. Spector's chauffeur testified he heard a gunshot before Spector told him "I think I killed somebody" and five separate woman said Spector had previously threatened them with guns.Spector had a previous conviction for brandishing a gun in the 1970s, and received probation at the time. In addition to the mandatory 15 years imprisonment for second-degree murder he will spend another four years in jail due to the use of a firearm, making him 88 when he is eligible for parole. He was also ordered to pay over $26,000 restitution costs.Wife Rachelle Spector maintained her husband's innocence, saying "This is a sad day for everybody involved. The Clarkson family has lost a daughter and a sister. I've lost my husband, my best friend. I feel that a grave injustice has been done and from this day forward I'm going to dedicate myself to proving my husband's innocence."Son Louis Spector, however, felt that his father was guilty. "I'm torn about this. I'm losing my father who is going to spend his life in jail. At the same time, justice is served."Today, Nintendo revealed that the real name for the console previously known by the codename "Revolution", is Wii.  The name was revealed in a message posted on Nintendo of America's official site, which is shown below.Introducing … Wii. As in "we." While the code-name Revolution expressed our direction, Wii represents the answer. Wii will break down that wall that separates video game players from everybody else. Wii will put people more in touch with their games … and each other. But you're probably asking, "What does the name mean?" Wii sounds like "we," which emphasizes the console is for everyone. People around the world, no matter what language they speak, can easily remember Wii without confusion or need to abbreviate - just "Wii". Wii has a distinctive "ii" spelling that symbolizes both the unique controllers and the image of people playing it. And Wii, as a name and a console, brings something revolutionary to the world of video games that sets it apart from the crowd. So that's Wii. But now Nintendo needs you. Because it's really not about you or me, it's about Wii. Together, Wii will change everything.In the immediate aftermath of the announcement, the name received much criticism for sounding too much like "wee", an English slang word meaning urine.  The name also sounds similar to "yes" in French and "good" in Japanese.At Thursday's keynote presentation of the Tokyo Game Show, Nintendo president Satoru Iwata unveiled the controller design for the company's new Nintendo Revolution console. Resembling a television remote, the controller uses two sensors placed near the user's television to triangulate its position in three-dimensional space. This will allow players to control actions and movements in video games by moving the device through the air.The remote control design is said to target new players who are unfamiliar with traditional video game controllers.A supplementary peripheral has also been shown, consisting of a separate plastic grip that is designed to be held in the player's second hand. It provides an analog stick and two trigger buttons, and connects to the bottom of the main controller with a simple cord. Additionally, Nintendo has suggested that the main controller will be able to slide inside a "shell" that will allow it to function like a conventional video game controller.The Revolution is expected to be released next year.Nintendo's widely popular game system the Wii was hit by a decrease in sales in Japan. Nintendo hopes to regain its sales by releasing a new version of its Wii Sports game in June. The current CEO of Nintendo said in a press conference they will not be slashing prices of their hardware. "If our products are not much different from competitors', price cuts would generate significant fresh demand. But video games are just not that kind of product."As of December 31, 2008 the Wii leads the generation over the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in worldwide sales.The Wii's competitor the PlayStation 3 for the first time exceeded sales in 16 months in Japan for the month of March. The Wii Sports Resort and other new games and software will show up in Japanese stores in June to renew interest in the Wii.Noel Edmonds, a British television presenter, has said that he is not paying the television license fee in protest at the way the BBC "badgers, hectors and threatens" people who avoid paying the fee."Auntie's put boxing gloves on. I'm so incensed by the idea that I'm guilty of something that I actually cancelled my licence fee a few months ago," said Edmonds, making his non-payment of the fee public on the BBC Breakfast television program."There are too many organisations — and the BBC is a fabulous organisation — that seem to think it's OK to badger, hector and threaten people," he continued. "When I was at the BBC, it promoted the licence fee by saying how wonderful it was because — let's face it — the BBC licence fee is astonishing value," added Edmonds explaining the way he believes the license fee should be promoted.Edmonds also claimed that TV licensing "haven't found me, and nobody's come knocking on the door." This is despite adverts by the organisations that, according to Edmonds, say "we know where you are."TV Licensing responded to Edmond's comments by saying that "while we would always prefer people buy a licence rather than risk prosecution and a fine, TV Licensing has a duty to enforce the licence fee on behalf of the honest majority who pay.""Unfortunately some people will only buy a licence when warned of the consequences of being unlicensed."Guitarist and songwriter Noel Gallagher of the English rock band Oasis announced last night that he had quit the group, saying that he could no longer work with his brother Liam, in the middle of a world tour. He wrote on the band's official website, "It’s with some sadness and great relief to tell you I quit Oasis tonight. [sic] I simply could not go on working with Liam a day longer." This has been interpreted by many as an announcement that the band is to split up.This news comes after a backstage fistfight between the brothers, which singer Amy Macdonald described on her Twitter profile with the text, "Liam smashed Noel’s guitar, huuuge [sic] fight!"Oasis cancelled the night's performance, as announced by support act Bloc Party, and screens displayed the message, "As a result of an altercation within the band, the Oasis gig has been cancelled." This announcement was met with booing from the crowd.Alan McGee, who signed Oasis to his Creation Records label, said, "It's obviously the worst fall-out that they've ever had, and they've had some pretty bad ones. This is a pretty serious one. But they love each other, they'll come back together." He predicted that the group would go on to make solo albums, before coming together for "a reunion tour in about five years time."Nokia Inc., the international mobile phone manufacturer headquartered in Finland, has launched their own online music and game downloading service to the public.They are hoping to challenge other phone manufacturers who offer similar downloading services and also other online stores such as the Apple iTunes store.Along with this announcement Nokia also revealed they will release new handsets that are better suited as multimedia players.Nokia's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, said: "Looking into the future, we will deliver great devices, combined with compelling experiences and services, to make it easy for people to unlock the potential of the Internet."The service, named the "Nokia Music Store", will charge between €6 and €10 for a game while a single music track will cost €1 and €10 for a whole album. The service will initially be available on Nokia's N81 and N95 models, but the media is anticipating the service to become available on more models soon after launch.Today, the nominees for the 78th Academy Awards were announced in Los Angeles, California.Best Picture nominees this year are Brokeback Mountain, Capote, Crash, Good Night, and Good Luck., and Munich. The director of each of these films received director nominations. Nominees include George Clooney (Good Night, and Good Luck.), Paul Haggis (Crash), Ang Lee (Brokeback Mountain), Bennett Miller (Capote), and Steven Spielberg (Munich). This is the first time since 1981 that every Best Picture nominee also received a nod for Direction.Brokeback Mountain leads this year's Oscar pack overall, with eight nominations. Brokeback is followed by Crash, Good Night, and Good Luck., and Memoirs of a Geisha, who each earned six. Capote, Munich, and Walk the Line each received five nominations. King Kong, Pride and Prejudice, and The Constant Gardener picked up four nominations, while Cinderella Man, The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe, and War of the Worlds pick up three. A History of Violence, Hustle & Flow, Mrs. Henderson Presents, North Country, Syriana, and Transamerica each received two nods each.Best Animated Feature Film nominees are Howl's Moving Castle, Tim Burton's Corpse Bride, and Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit. None of these films used primarily CGI-animation, the first year this can be claimed, since the 2001 creation of the award category. Corspe Bride marks both Tim Burton and Mike Johnson's first nominations. Wallace & Gromit's Steve Box is celebrating his first nomination, while co-producer Nick Park has three Oscars for Best Animation Short, a fourth nomination, of which he lost to himself in 1990. Hayao Miyazaki won the Best Animated Feature award in 2002, for Spirited Away.Uniquely neither animation powerhouse, Disney or DreamWorks, is directly nominated in the category. Disney's Buena Vista Entertainment distributes Miyazaki film Howl's Moving Castle, while DreamWorks distributed Wallace and Gromit, animated by Aardman Animations.Best Foreign Language Film nominees include Italian film Don't Tell, France's Joyeux Noël, Palestine's Paradise Now, Germany's Sophie Scholl - The Final Days, and South Africa's Tsotsi. Italy has been up for an Oscar 27 times, France 34 times, and Germany has had six nominations. This is only South Africa's second nomination, with the first coming last year, and Palestine's first ever Academy Award nomination.Nominees for Best Documentary Feature are Darwin's Nightmare, Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room, March of the Penguins, Murderball, and Street Fight. March of the Penguins, produced in France, actually grossed more than any of the Best Picture nominees, the first time in history such an occurrence has happened.The top 19 films in box office received a total of only 14 nominations, with a majority of these in the categories of Visual Effects, Sound Mixing and Sound Editing.Perhaps one of the most interesting stories for Hollywood as a whole, is the tremendous success of Participant Productions in its first year of operation. eBay founder Jeff Skoll's movie house produced nominees Good Night and Good Luck. (6), North Country (2), Syriana (2), and Murderball (1). The company aims to fund feature films and documentaries that promote social values while still being commercially viable.The 78th Academy Awards presentation will be held on Sunday, March 5.Members of a Waynesville, North Carolina Baptist church voted to kick out nine members, including a deacon, who disagreed with the political views of its main pastor, Chan Chandler. In a special meeting Monday night, Chandler asked congregants of the East Waynesville Baptist Church who voted for John Kerry in the last U.S. presidential election to either repent that action or leave the room. Afterward he called for a vote to remove the nine people who left the meeting from the church's membership. All but two remaining members attending the meeting voted to remove the nine dissenters.Later 40 additional church members, who had not attended the Monday meeting, resigned from the church in protest of Chandler's action.According to the Baptist State Convention of North Carolina in an interview with the Asheville Citizen-Times, the local newspaper, each church has local bylaws and East Waynesville may have had authority to do such a purge if the bylaws allowed for it.Even so, according to reports by the Associated Press, the North Carolina Democratic Party claims Chandler may be endangering his church's tax-free status. U.S. laws prohibit charities, including churches, from taking sides in the political arena. A loss of tax-free status would bar congregants of the church from writing off tithes as charitable contributions on their income tax statements. Additionally, the church may have to pay taxes on the money it receives from the collection plate.Hyon Song-wol, a singer who was reportedly connected to Kim Jong-un, the Supreme Leader of North Korea, has made an appearance on state television Friday, contradicting reports she was executed last year by firing squad.The singer appeared speaking at a national art workers rally in Pyongyang. She expressed her support for Kim's governance and her dedication to help “stoke up the flame for art and creative work”.Hyon was first reported dead in August last year by South Korean newspapers, among them Chosun Ilbo with reported ties to South Korean intelligence services. She was reportedly executed along with eleven other performers for creating and distributing sex tapes of themselves, including performers from Unhasu Orchestra, the Wangjaesan Light Music Band, and the Moranbong Band.Reports suggested Hyon had run afoul of Kim's wife, Ri Sol-ju. A report attributed to Japanese newspaper Asahi Shimbun stated Hyon and the other performers were executed to suppress rumors Ri had behaved decadently during her time as an entertainer.News of Hyon's execution was supported last October by Nam Jae-Joon, the director of South Korea's National Intelligence Service, who reportedly expressed awareness of an execution, according to two South Korean MPs, during a closed parliamentary session: "We are aware of the execution of some ten people associated with the Unhasu Orchestra." Reports said the execution was witnessed, as a mandatory lesson, by bands pioneering the "new wave" of music that rose to prominence in the country following the ascension of Kim Jong-un to North Korean leadership.The Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), the state news agency of North Korea, disputed such reports, describing them as "unpardonable" and a "hideous provocation hurting the dignity of the supreme leadership", further denouncing the South Korean government officials and journalists who issued them as "psychopaths" and "confrontational maniacs". During that time, North Korean radio broadcast an Unhasu Orchestra performance, seemingly to disprove the reports, but Hyon's execution was not disproved.Prior to her supposed execution, Hyon had enjoyed popularity in North Korea; her songs included "The Footsteps of Soldiers", "I Love Pyongyang", and, notably, "Excellent Horse Like Lady". All three songs contained patriotic themes. Purportedly, Hyon was Kim Jong-un's girlfriend some years ago, but the relationship ended due to disapproval by Kim Jong-un's father, then-Supreme Leader Kim Jong-il and she later married and had a child with an army officer.Around 17,000 people converged on the ancient monument of Stonehenge this morning to celebrate the northern hemisphere's summer solstice. Despite a night of torrential rain, spirits were high as the sun rose over the horizon, though clouds blocked out the dawn for much of the event.The summer solstice is the longest day of the year, having the greatest length of time between dawn and dusk. Stonehenge is constructed so that on the dawn of the solstice, the sun appears in the centre of one of the stone structures. Pagan rituals have taken place at this time every year for many centuries.Norway has won the Eurovision Song Contest 2009, held Saturday evening in Moscow, Russia, by the largest margin in the Contest's history. Alexander Rybak's song "Fairytale" received 387 points, 169 points more than the second place entrant, Yohanna, who represented Iceland with the song "Is It True?"Rybak, 23, was the runaway winner from the beginning of the voting, and was the odds-on favorite with British bookies. The other bookie favorites, Turkey, the United Kingdom and Greece, all found places in the Top 10, placing fourth, fifth and seventh, respectively. It was the first Top 10 showing for the United Kingdom in seven years.Other notable scores included Estonia, who finished in sixth place after qualifying for the final for the first time ever since the pre-qualifying round was introduced five years ago, and France, who placed eighth for their first Top 10 finish since 2002. Spanish singer Soraya Arnelas placed joint twenty-third after a difficult week, which included public outcry against her and her national broadcaster.Russians hoping to repeat a victory on home turf were disappointed as Anastasiya Prikhodko's song "Mamo" placed eleventh. Israel's song "There Must Be Another Way," sung by a Jewish-Arab duo, marking the first time an Arab performer represented Israel in any capacity, placed sixteenth. Germany, despite having lots of publicity before the event for signing on burlesque performer Dita von Teese to appear on-stage with their entrants, Alex Swings Oscar Sings!, placed twentieth, the third year in a row Germany placed in the bottom quartile.For the first time in 29 years, Sir Terry Wogan did not provide a commentary on the UK's broadcast, Irish comedian Graham Norton replaced Sir Terry, who has complained that "it was no longer a music contest."According to Norton, the event was blemished by the Russian policing of it, and he commented on-air that "heavy-handed policing has really marred what has been a fantastic Eurovision."This is Norway's third Eurovision win. They previously won in 1985 and 1995. As winners, Norway and its national broadcaster, the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation (NRK), will host the event next May.Here are the results of the finale night.A war museum located in Norway has stated that Adolf Hitler has drawn characters from the Walt Disney film Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and were found hidden inside a painting signed "A. Hitler".Director William Hakvaag says that colored images of the characters Bashful and Doc along with the initials 'A.H.' appear hidden in a painting which tests say date back to 1940, sometime during World War II. Pinocchio is also reported to be among the characters drawn by Hitler. He says that he bought the painting for US$300 at an auction in Germany.Long before he ruled Germany and his conquest of Europe, Adolf Hitler twice tried, unsuccessfully, to enroll at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna in 1907 and 1908. He continued to work as an amateur artist until World War I."I am 100 percent sure that these are drawings by Hitler. If one wanted to make a forgery, one would never hide it in the back of a picture, where it might never be discovered," said Hakvaag. Hitler was reported to have owned a copy of the movie, made in 1937.Hakvaag also says that the initials on the painting, match other historical documents containing authentic Hitler initials. So far there has not been any other confirmation of the museum's claims, but other alleged Hitler drawings that sold at auction have turned out to be forgeries.The roof of Notre Dame cathedral in French capital Paris caught fire yesterday. The spire and at least part of the roof, and at least part of the wooden frame, collapsed. According to officials, the two bell towers were saved. The fire reportedly started at about 19:00 local time (1700 UTC). Reportedly over 400 firefighters participated in extinguishing the blaze and were still working as of midnight. Not only did they put out the fire but they continued to cool the structure after the fire was gone to reduce the possibility of further damage.Officials cleared the area around the cathedral.The French Civil Security service said water bombing by aircraft was disallowed as it might have caused additional damage to the monument.As of late yesterday, the fire's cause had not been officially stated. President Emmanuel Macron cancelled an address he was to have given during the evening and instead went to the scene.Renovation work was ongoing in the building before the fire began. The world-famous cathedral, completed in the 13th century, is one of the most well-known monuments in France.American novelist J.D. Salinger, author of The Catcher in the Rye, has died of natural causes at the age of 91. His son confirms that he died in his New Hampshire home yesterday. Salinger was born in New York City in 1919.The author had famously remained a recluse since 1953, shortly after the publication of The Catcher in the Rye, his most famous work. He very rarely entered the public eye after that date, emerging only for infrequent interviews and lawsuits. He never responded to fan mail. His magnum opus was published in 1951, and tells the story of Holden Caulfield, an alienated, rebellious seventeen year-old and his expulsion from an exclusive prep school, but is now known as one of the most influential books of the 20th century. Featuring on Time's top 150 books of all time, it has been translated into many languages, and sold more than 65 million copies worldwide. It was also carried by Mark David Chapman, when he gunned down John Lennon in 1980.Apart from The Catcher in the Rye, he has published a few other books, none of which have enjoyed such success. These include 9 Stories, Franny and Zooey, and Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters and Seymour: An Introduction. Salinger's last work, the novella Hapworth 16, was published in The New Yorker in 1965.Finland's National Bureau of Investigation, a division of Finland's national police, has ten suspects currently, in its recent investigation into alleged dog fighting in the south of the country.All the suspects are male Finns residing in southern Finland. The new developments are the result of an investigation into four to six alleged dog fights. Dog fighting is a breach of animal cruelty laws in Finland, and the case will be considered for prosecution in October. They are being investigated under suspicion of breaching the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.Chief Inspector Olli Töyräs of the Keskusrikospoliisin told reporters, "I would not like to speculate on the motives for the arranging of these dog fights. At least thus far there has been no evidence of illegal gambling on the outcome of fights. There also does not seem to be any large-scale organisation behind the incidents or connections with organised crime groupings. It would appear to be the pastime of a group of individuals." Despite this, the group is known to have links throughout Scandinavia, as well as possible links to Russia.He added that about a dozen pit bulls from America were involved in the incidents.Key evidence includes video footage and testimony from veterinary surgeons, who were present when police raided several locations suspected to be involved. "Statements by veterinary surgeons are a significant part of the investigation. They play the same role here as forensic pathologists would in a normal violent crime investigation," Inspector Töyräs said.The investigation was begun as a result of an investigation into dog fighting in the United Kingdom by the state-run British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). A BBC journalist teamed up with a man with military experience to infiltrate a notorious dog fighting ring from Ulster, Ireland, known as The Farmer Boys. This uncovered links to a group involved in comparable activity in Finland. The documentary, which is part of the Panorama series, was broadcast in Finland yesterday by YLE.The BBC had contacted Finland regarding it's discoveries in April. The BBC itself had begun it's investigation after Gerard Cavlan, a football player from Northern Ireland, was convicted on charges related to dog fighting.The programme included graphic scenes of a dog fight in Finland, filmed using hidden cameras. The show's team also purchased a pit bull from a dealer in Finland with false documents showing it to be another breed (pit bulls are illegal in Britain) and successfully transported it back without detection via Germany and Ireland, taking a ferry into England from Northern Ireland.The dog breeder is a member of SATHY, an organisation which describes itself as "a Finnish club devoted to dog breeds not recognized by FCI related associations (such as the Finnish Kennel Club, and some others). [The] Most important breeds for us are the American Bulldog, American Pit Bull Terrier, Toy Fox Terrier, American Hairless Terrier and Olde English Bulldog."SATHY has issued a statement via their website to the affect that they felt the programme was misleading, and that Finnish dog breeders have initiated legal proceedings against the British journalist responsible for the programme. One of the dog breeders shown during the programme denied any criminal activity when approached by the Finnish Helsingin Sanomat news service. Privacy laws in Finland required the faces of those believed to be involved to be pixelated during the Finnish version of the broadcast, although this was not mirrored in the UK screening - which, in an unprecedented move, coincided exactly with the showing in Finland. The show was widely discussed on the internet, with large volumes of material requiring deleted by site administrators as breaching Finnish privacy legislation.The investigation is the only one ever conducted into dog fighting in Finland. Töyräs explained the problem to journalists: ”We have only had vague unconnected hints of this sort of activity in the past, and on the basis of these it was not possible to mount an earlier investigation."A trio of freshmen at a New York design school say that residents aren't taking advantage of a valuable and countless resource found all around the world: stoops.In Sit Here, a campaign inspired by a recent class project, Sarah Feldman, Chelsea Briganti and Essence Rodriguez are using fliers placed around New York to encourage residents and visitors to get to know one another on their stoops. Wikinews got a chance to talk to Sarah Feldman, web designer for the project. Feldman is also responsible for getting different news sources to contact the team, such as the Brooklyn Papers and New York Magazine.Wikinews: When your group started this project, did you ever expect it would get this much publicity from the press and the public?Feldman: We had no idea how popular this would become. We just thought it was another usual school project we had to do. The Brooklyn Record saw the topic about our website I posted on a Park Slope message board. They talked about it and put our URL on their site. Then The Brooklyn Papers found us on the Brooklyn Record. A lot of press found us because of the article in the Brooklyn Papers. We didn't know if it was just the Internet that caused all the fuss, but then a blogger on OnlyTheBlogKnowsBrooklyn and some photographer on Flickr found our fliers!Wikinews: You originally started this project in New York City. If you could run this project in any other city (or country) in the world, which one would it be, and why?Feldman I'd run this project in my hometown, Houston. Now there you will find few people outside. For one thing, it is hot and we are known for one of the most obese cities in the USA. Houston has also coined the term "The Driving City": no walking...just driving. If you ask my friends there, "Hey...you wanna go outside and sit?" They'd look at you funny and say "Can't we just go see a movie or go on Facebook?"Wikinews: Your fliers are bright green, which makes them very noticeable. Out of the thousands of people who see your fliers each day, how many people do you think actually sit down and talk?Feldman: Not enough. Most of the time the people who I saw sitting were either outside of a bar or kids playing ball. But I rarely saw any kids except on Sundays in Park Slope outside. Probably they were watching TV or on the Internet. Chelsea noticed this first. She came up with the idea when she saw an elderly man sitting on his stoop by himself. She started talking to him about his life there and he brought up the topic of less socialization with neighbors.Sit Here has been noticed in at least 15 different news sources, including Wikinews.On Thursday night, a failure of the Optus B1 satellite affected the Sky Pay TV network and also caused a blackout of other satellite-based systems. Sky TV subscribers will get a refund for the inconvenience.The satellite was down from Thursday evening to Friday morning. It also covers international emergency service and air traffic coordination. However, thanks to backup services, no serious effects were caused.Satellite experts and astronomers questioned Sky's explanation that the solar eclipse had hampered attempts to get the service back up and running – the eclipse happened nearly 24 hours before the outage, and thus the satellite should have been in a different area of the sky. A spokesman of Sky TV said the problem occurred because the eclipse happened at the moment the sun was required to charge the satellite's batteries for a routine realignment.The pay TV company is considering paying compensation to advertising customers as well.Reports say that O.J. Simpson, a former American football player is a suspect in a robbery that took place on Thursday night at the Palace Station Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada. Simpson was not immediately arrested and was later released. He was not a guest at the hotel.Las Vegas Metropolitan Police (LVMPD) began to question Simpson and at least five other people, after they were accused of breaking into a room in the hotel, with at least one of the individuals holding a gun, but its not known if the room was a guest room. Several sports memorabilia items, all previously belonging to Simpson, were reported to be stolen from the room, which was registered to sports memorabilia collector Alfred Beardsley, and reports say that when police found the items, Simpson claimed that they belonged to him. Among the items stolen is believed to be a suit that Simpson wore during his 1995 murder trial, an autographed item that had been signed by Joe Montana, and "never before released" version of Simpson's book If I Did It. Simpson was found not guilty of the murders of his ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman."When they talked to him, Simpson made the comment that he believed the memorabilia was his. We're getting conflicting stories from the two sides," said Jose Montoya, a spokesman for the LVMPD.Reports say that Beardsley was going to sell the items and made plans to meet with someone on Thursday night who was interested in purchasing them. The unnamed individual, along with OJ claimed to be police officers and ordered Beardsley to turn over his cellular phone, which he refused. He then claims one of the men "roughed him up" before stealing every collectible in the room.Police are expected to release a statement to the media later today.Noel Gallagher, lead guitarist and songwriter for British rock band Oasis, was assaulted on September 7 as his band headlined the Virgin Festival in Toronto, Canada.The band was in the middle of a performance of the song "Morning Glory" when the attacker, Daniel Sullivan, 47, ran on to the stage and pushed Noel over before attempting to attack Liam Gallagher.Security officials quickly apprehended Sullivan and had to restrain Liam from attacking Sullivan. Gallagher was admitted to hospital. After a 15-minute delay the band returned to complete the set but refused to play an encore.Gallagher wrote on his blog that the attacker "evaded our crack security team and assaulted my midriff."Noel Gallagher had fallen on his monitor speakers and received bruised hips and ribs which forced Oasis to cancel two scheduled North American concerts, including one in New York. The concert ending their Canadian tour, to be held in London, Ontario, has been rescheduled to December 15.US President Barack Obama was "angry" over General Stanley McChrystal's criticism of some of the nation's top officials, in an article of a future issue of the Rolling Stone. McChrystal was summoned to the capital to explain to Obama. Robert Gibbs described the president as "angry — you would know it if you saw it."The top US general and his staff taunted Karl Eikenberry, Joe Biden, James Jones and Richard Holbrooke. He has apologised and submitted his resignation; Obama is considering whether or not to accept it. Obama reportedly wants to "make sure that he talk[s] to him directly before he makes any final decisions."Duncan Boothby, McChrystal's special assistant, resigned as a result of the scandal. Waheed Omer, a spokesman for Hamid Karzai, said that "the president strongly supports General McChrystal and his strategy in Afghanistan and believes he is the best commander the United States has sent to Afghanistan over the last nine years."In response to the controversy, McChrystal said that "I extend my sincerest apology for this profile. It was a mistake reflecting poor judgement and should never have happened."In an appearance on the The Tonight Show with Jay Leno Thursday night, United States President Barack Obama told host, Jay Leno, that he had bowled at the White House bowling alley and scored a 129."It was like the Special Olympics or something," the President said.The Special Olympics is an international organization that promotes self-confidence and social skills for people with intellectual disabilities. It organizes the Special Olympics World Games which is recognized by the International Olympic Committee and is similar to the Paralympic Games which are for people with physical disabilities.Even before the taped show was aired, Barack Obama called the chairman of the Special Olympics to apologize. He phoned Timothy Shriver from Air Force One on the way back to Washington, D.C.. Tim Shriver is also the son of Eunice Kennedy Shriver who founded the Special Olympics."He expressed his disappointment, and he apologized in a way that was very moving. He expressed that he did not intend to humiliate this population," Shriver said on Friday in an interview on Good Morning America."Words hurt, words do matter," Shriver added. "People with special needs are great athletes and productive citizens.""The President made an offhand remark making fun of his own bowling that was in no way intended to disparage the Special Olympics," White House deputy press secretary, Bill Burton, said. "He thinks that the Special Olympics are a wonderful program that gives an opportunity to shine to people with disabilities from around the world."Meanwhile, Kolan McConiughey, a top Special Olympics bowler told the Associated Press that he doesn't think Obama bowls like a Special Olympian."He bowled a 129. I bowl a 300. I could beat that score easily," McConiughey said. McConiughey has five perfect 300 games on his track record as a bowler and averages a score of 212."I'd tell him to get a new bowling ball, new shoes and bring him down to the lane," said McConiughey, offering bowling advice to the President. "Keep his body straight, his arm straight and keep his steps straight. He has to practice every single day."Maria Shriver, sister of Tim Shriver, said the President's comment "hurts millions of people throughout the world."California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, who is married to Maria Shriver, said, "He [Obama] loves Special Olympics, and he would do everything he can to help Special Olympics."Press Secretary Robert Gibbs told reporters, "I know that the President believes that the Special Olympics are a triumph of the human spirit, and I think he understands that they deserve a lot better than — than the thoughtless joke that he made last night. And he apologizes for that."At 2 P.M. on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington D.C., approximately 400,000 people attended H.B.O.'s presentation of Barack Obama's inaugural kick off concert called "We are One". The concert featured many musicians including Beyonce, Stevie Wonder and U2. The show featured other high profile celebrities in between performances reading and reflecting on the significance of Barack's Inauguration on the 20th. Near the end, President-Elect Barack Obama went on the steps and gave a speech.Throughout most of the songs, several different large choirs provided back up vocals and harmony, as well as a full orchestra below the stage. The bald Eagle, the national bird of the United States was displayed several times and allowed to fly within its trainers arm range as a symbol of patriotism and pride. The entire event is expected to be funded with donations gathered by Obama's inaugural committee.On January 19, Michelle Obama and Jill Biden hosted the "Kids' Inaugural: We Are the Future" concert at the Verizon Center in Washington, D.C. Musical performers include Disney television and pop stars Miley Cyrus and the Jonas Brothers. The show was broadcast live on Disney Channel and on Radio Disney.In a move to open up government and embrace modern thinking on copyright, U.S. President-Elect Barack Obama's transition team website, Change.gov, has adopted the Creative Commons licenses for all content and user contributions. This will allow anyone to take material from the site and reuse it, without any concern that they may be violating copyright."This is great news and a encouraging sign that the new administration has a clear sense of the importance of openness in government and on the web. The embrace of Creative Commons licensing on Change.gov is consistent with earlier support by both Obama and John McCain for the idea of 'open debates'," said Creative Commons in a statement posted on their website.Those making reuse of the site's content are only obliged to attribute it, per the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported licence. The 'right to remix' the new license extends is not restricted to text; videos are included and the site now provides links to download copies of clips for this purpose.In addition to the new license, Change.gov has introduced open forums for the discussion of items that concern the electorate. According to Computerworld, unlike the blogs used by some government departments, posts appear unfiltered and a scoring and ranking system is employed. One of the high-traffic early discussion threads is soliciting public input on healthcare worries.Official works of federal government employees are all in the public domain. Despite the ".gov" web address, the site is run by the "Obama-Biden Transition Project" charity.Creative Commons licenses are encouraged on popular photo sharing website Flickr, and are the only applicable licenses on Wikinews.Opinions rooted in racism, sexism, homophobia are commonly unacceptable to express in public or in polite company.  Michael Richards shouted down a black heckler by yelling, "Shut up!" followed by "He's a nigger!" and gave his already dormant career less of a chance of ever reviving.  When Isiah Washington called a co-star on Grey's Anatomy a "fag," his contract was not renewed. None of this would have happened to either actor if instead of racist or homophobic terminology they had said, "Shut up, fattie!" or "Fat ass!"  It's not an easy time to be fat in America.  A fat person is seen as weak-willed, as suffering from an addiction to food, as unhealthy and deserving of ridicule.  It goes without saying that people who are overweight are, indeed, people with a full range of emotions and feelings that are as easily hurt as a thin person's.  Wikinews reporter David Shankbone met Kira Nerusskaya, a documentary filmmaker, at this year's Tribeca Film Festival.  Her film The BBW World: Under the FAT! is in production and post-production.  She is a self-described Big Beautiful Woman (BBW) and she hosts the website TheBBWWorld.com; she is also one of the leading voices that has recently emerged for fat acceptance.  In researching her film she has traveled to Russia, London, Paris, Ireland and all over the United States to interview fat women about their obesity and their place in their respective societies.  Below is an interview with Nerusskaya about the health, issues, public reactions to and sexuality of a BBW.Odense Squash Club (OSC) won the Danish team club championship in squash. During the weekend of April 26 and 27, the final four of the Danish championship were played at OSC home stadium, Squash Center Danmark, due to OSC winning the league system this season. OSC beat Herlev/Hjorten Squash (Herlev) 6-1 in the final.OSC was the favourite to take the gold this weekend, as they had already won league play with a comfortable lead over København Squash Klub (KSK), and therefore had home court and could pick their opponent in the first semi-final. OSC chose to play Åbyhøj Squash Klub (ÅSK) in the first semi final, and beat them with ease 6-1, only loosing the women's second to Ditte Nielsen (ÅSK).During the other semi, the favoured professionals from KSK, ran in to serious problems, as injured star player Alex Stait was not able to play for KSK giving the young Herlev team a chance in this semi. After 5 matches and down by two matches, Mikkel Kragholm (Herlev) and Thomas Pilak (Herlev) became double match winners when they each beat their opponents by 3-0 and 3-1, winning the match 4-3 for Herlev.The final was, however, dominated by OSC, and Herlev wasn't ever in the match. Only Danish individual champion Morten Sørensen was able to win for Herlev. Herlev lost the rest of the matches. OSC's players proved to be to strong for last years bronze winners from Herlev. OSC won the Danish championship 6-1 in the final at Squash Center Danmark in Odense.Between August 17 and August 19, 2007 in Słupna Park in Mysłowice, Poland, the second edition of Off Festival had place. Art director of the edition was Artur Rojek, the leader of Myslovitz band.Beside concerts, the main attraction of the festival, Indie Label plants, hosted by Philippe Petit and Markus Detmer, took place along with Children's Happiness Feast (Święto Radości Dzieci) with 400 children playing and the Second International Volunteer Work Expo (II Międzynarodowe Targi Wolontariatu). At the event came around 8 thousand people. Along the VIPs there was former Prime Minister of Poland, Jerzy Buzek reading the storybooks for children. On the volunteer work expo came around 200 people from various organizations.File:BeijingOlimpicGames2008-08-08.jpgOfficials representing the Beijing Olympic Games in China have confirmed that the organizations in charge of the Opening Ceremony for the 2008 Summer Olympics may have faked at least two parts of the production. The ceremony lasted a total of four and a half hours.It has been revealed that nine-year-old Lin Miaoke, who performed "Ode to the Motherland" during the ceremony, was only a visual effect. A recording of another girl's voice played throughout the stadium and on the television and radio broadcasts. It is also now known that that some of the fireworks shown on television were computer-generated imagery.The New York Times reports Lin's voice was not perfect, and a member of the Chinese Politburo demanded that a more suitable voice was used. Organizers found that voice in seven-year-old Yang Peiyi. Another girl was used in rehearsals, but she was deemed to be too old."The reason was for the national interest," Chen Qigang, the opening ceremonies general music designer, said Sunday during a radio interview. "The child on camera should be flawless in image, internal feeling and expression."Filmmaker Zhang Yimou, the production's director, praised Lin at a press conference with Chinese media."She’s very cute and sings quite well, too," he said according to a transcript of the news conference. "I was moved every time we did a rehearsal on this, from the bottom of my heart."The initial performer was a ten-year-old girl who was not named in the report and "whose voice was really good," but Zhang decided that she was too old. About ten girls were auditioned for the role at Central People’s Radio Station in Beijing."After the recording, we thought that Lin Miaoke’s voice was not very suitable," Chen Qigang said during his radio interview with Beijing Music Radio. "Finally, we made the decision that the voice we would use was Yang Peiyi’s."During the 2006 Winter Olympics in Torino, Italy, tenor Luciano Pavarotti mimed to a recorded version of the song he was singing. The recording was of him, but the singer, then 70 years old, had problems with a cold and opted to lip sync.Billy Werber, third baseman in Major League Baseball, has died at the age of 100. Werber died of natural causes on Thursday, January 22, 2009 at an assisted living center in Charlotte, North Carolina. He was moved there after his health deteriorated a month ago.His son said that when admitted, Werber refused to eat solid foods and would only drink liquids. "He just refused to eat and that was his plan," Bill Werber Jr. told the Associated Press. He added that his father was "sharp up until four weeks ago".Born William Murray Werber on June 20, 1908 in Berwyn Heights, Maryland, he played for the New York Yankees from (1930, 1933), the Boston Red Sox from (1933-1936), the Philadelphia Athletics from (1937-1938), Cincinnati Reds from (1939-1941) and the New York Giants from (1942). In 1934, Werber became the starting third baseman of the Red Sox. He responded with a career-high .321 batting average, including 200 hits; led the American League with 40 stolen bases, and posted double digits in doubles (41), triples (10) and home runs (11). He led the league in stolen bases in 1935 (29) and 1937 (35). Boston traded him to the Philadelphia Athletics for the 1937 season, and he joined the Cincinnati Reds in 1939.In an 11-season career, Werber was a .271 hitter with 78 home runs and 539 RBI in 1,295 games. One of the most aggressive baserunners of the 1930s, probably the most aggressive next to Ben Chapman, he stole 215 bases. He was inducted into the Cincinnati Reds Hall of Fame in 1961.His wife Kathryn 'Tat' Werber died in 2000, after she and Werber had been married 70 years. Bill Werber Jr. says that his father is to be cremated and services, which will be open to the public, will be held on the weekend of January 31 through February 1.The oldest European, Florrie Baldwin, turned 114 on Wednesday. Baldwin, who was born in Leeds, West Yorkshire, England on March 31, 1896, has been recognised as the oldest person in Europe since 2009.Baldwin, who lives in the Radcliffe Gardens Nursing Home, Leeds, is also known to be the fourth-oldest living person in the world, behind Eugenie Blanchard from Saint Barthélemy (Caribbean), France , Neva Morris from the United States and Kama Chinen from Japan.On reaching the milestone, she was sent a congratulatory telegram from Queen Elizabeth II, the  British monarch.David Worsnop, Baldwin's 64-year-old grandson, stated: "When I'm chatting to people I don't know well and I tell them I've got to go and see my grandmother they often give me a funny look. When my mother told the girl in the post office she wanted a Mothers' Day card, the assistant looked at her as if she was crazy. But my grandmother is amazing, every year we say this will most likely be the last year we will do this. We have been saying that for 14 years but she keeps battling on."Baldwin puts the reasons for her longevity down to hard work and clean living. Worsnop adds determination to this: "I think that's her secret. She's very strong-willed. I think that's the main thing, her strength of character."One of the most popular Russian theatrical and cinema actors, Oleg Yankovsky,  died at the age of 65 on Wednesday. He died in Moscow after a nearly life-long struggle with pancreatic cancer.Yankovsky was a leading actor of Mark Zakharov's Lenkom Theatre for over 35 years.He starred in many films, including Two Comrades Were Serving, The Kreutzer Sonata, An Ordinary Miracle and The Very Same Munchhausen.He is survived by his widow, the actress Lyudmila Zorina, and his son Philip, who is also an actor and a film director.Cinematologist Kirill Razlogov said that "Oleg Yankovsky was an actor from God." "Oleg Yankovsky was a unique phenomenon, an unbelievably strong and talented actor," said Mark Zakharov, a film director, as quoted by the ITAR-Tass news agency.On Monday, the Olympic torch for the 2008 Summer Olympics was lit in Olympia, Greece as per tradition. The Games of the XXIX Olympiad are scheduled to be held in and around Beijing, China from August 8, 2008, to August 24, 2008.Members of Reporters Without Borders (RSF), and others, were able to break through the police cordon. "We cannot let the Chinese government seize the Olympic flame, a symbol of peace, without denouncing the dramatic human rights situation in the country," RSF said in a statement.While Liu Qi, president of the Beijing Organizing Committee and a former mayor of Beijing, delivered a speech, at least one protester was able to run up behind him and display a flag that resembled the Olympic flag, except it was black and the rings were handcuffs.The protester was quickly apprehended and Liu Qi continued his speech relatively uninterrupted. "The Olympic flame will radiate light and happiness, peace and friendship, and hope and dreams to the people of China and the whole world," he told the crowd."Shame on China. Don't send China's blood-tainted torch to Tibet. Free Tibet. Tibet is an independent country," shouted Tenzin Dorjee, a leader for Students for a Free Tibet, while he was taken by police."All we wanted to do was break into the torch relay and shout that this is a torch of shame as the Chinese government continues to kill hundreds of our people," Dorjee said later. "They were stalking me from the moment I touched down to Greece," he added.The torch is still scheduled to be carried around the world in a relay that will go through twenty countries before arriving in Beijing for the start of the Games.Jacques Rogge, president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) has defended having the Games in China, saying, "The major political leaders don't want a boycott." In his speech Monday, he said, "The torch is the link between all athletes and citizens of this world; between all of us who believe in Olympism and the virtue of sport. It has the force to unite humanity and to stand for harmony." Germany's Olympic Committee rejected a boycott of the games aimed at events in Tibet. Noting that the 1980 Summer Olympics boycott did not avert the Soviet war in Afghanistan, the president of the committee said they concluded that the role of sports is to start dialog and promote understanding — and not to exert political pressure.Residents of the Chicago suburb of Naperville, Illinois celebrated Evan Lysacek Day last Friday. Held in honor of the gold medalist in figure skating at the 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics, the day started with a rally at the former Naperville resident's high school, Neuqua Valley High School. Neuqua awarded Lysacek its first-ever Distinguished Alumni Award. He was the first American since 1988 to win the gold in men's figure skating, having started the sport since he was eight. Despite being busy with other engagements and starring in the TV show Dancing with the Stars, Lysacek was excited about the opportunity to visit his hometown. He also took the opportunity to thank his former teachers, who he said worked hard to keep him caught up in his studies amidst his hectic skating career. "I've been waiting to get back home and celebrate with the community that's backed me and been so instrumental in my development as a person, as an athlete and take this opportunity to say thank you, not just to the community but more so to the faculty here," he told the crowd at Neuqua. The skater's achievements have inspired the residents of his hometown. "I was inspired by what he showed me. He showed that I can do anything I want to do," said Neuqua student Gbenja Okubaja. At a Chamber of Commerce lunch held later that day, Naperville Mayor A. George Pradel awarded Lysacek the key to the city, saying "I don't know what it opens, but I've been told its already opened the hearts of everyone here in Naperville." In response Lysacek joked, "I hear it opens all the banks here in Naperville."Afterwards, Lysacek attended a fundraiser held in honor of skater and long-time friend Stephanie Joseph, who died of cancer at the age of 21.Today, the Olympic torch went out three times while traveling through Paris, France. Olympic officials claim that this came as a result of actions by Pro-Tibetan protesters. It has been reported that the torch was extinguished, then put on a bus to keep it safe. The torch was extinguished one time by a Chinese official when the torch was in the hands of David Douillet, and one time due to technical problems. Sylvain Garel, of the Green Party and member of the Paris City Council tried to catch the torch from bearer Stephane Diagana's hands.A ceremony on City Hall Plaza was canceled, "by Chinese officials" according to Paris' mayor Bertrand Delanoë. A banner with "Paris defends human rights around the world" was installed on the City Hall.Reporters without Borders, head of the protest in France, put a banner on the Eiffel Tower and on Notre-Dame de Paris by its Secretary-General Robert Ménard.This action comes soon after the official news agency of China described the actions by the protesters as "vile misdeeds". A spokesman for Beijing 2008 said “the torch represents the Olympic spirit and people welcome the torch.” A spokesperson for the International Olympic Committee said that the IOC is concerned about the situation in Tibet, although they do not encourage people to disrupt the ceremonies. The spokesperson said "The International Olympic Committee has expressed its serious concern and calls for a rapid peaceful resolution in Tibet." He did, however, say that the style of protesting was "not compatible with the values of the torch relay or the Olympic Games". The BBC has reported that 500 protesters were present in Paris today. Yesterday, protesters tried to grab and extinguish the torch in London, without success.The events were not broadcast live, as a Chinese Committee demanded to screen the footage prior to broadcast.The Olympic torch relay in San Francisco, California, began today at 1:00 p.m. PDT (UTC-7). It was the only stop for the torch in the United States, as it makes its way around the world to Beijing, China, for the 2008 Summer Olympics.The route for the torch was materially altered as protesters filled the streets along the planned route. The route, which was originally 10 kilometres long, was shortened by nearly half, according to the San Francisco Police Department. In hopes that all eighty of the scheduled torch carriers would get a chance to carry the torch, the carriers ran in pairs.The first torch carrier ran as scheduled, but then carried it into a warehouse, from which a motorcycle was observed leaving. The torch was then spotted again on a major street nearly two miles off course.The rerouting was carefully planned, according to San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom, who told Associated Press, that it was because of "a disproportionate concentration of people in and around the start of the relay."The closing ceremonies were held at San Francisco International Airport instead of the planned waterfront location at AT&T Park.Matt Helmenstine, 30, a California high school teacher carrying a Tibetan flag told Reuters: "I think it's cowardly. If they can't run the torch through the city, it means that no one is supporting the games.""This is a once-in-a-lifetime thing for us to see the torch," said Nancy Chan, a local resident, to the San Francisco Chronicle. "There is a lot of politics around it, but that is the great thing about America - the free speech." She and her 4-year-old son ran to the new route when it was announced.At least one protester was arrested, Xiao Tan, 32, of Chinese origin, who tried to unfurl a Tibetan flag. "I'm proud to be Chinese, but I don't like what's happening in Tibet," he told AFP. The Vancouver Sun reported a number of arrests, but says that violence is limited.Peter Ueberroth, the chairman of the United States Olympic Committee, said that the right balance had been reached, between preserving freedom of speech for protesters, while still providing an exhilarating experience for torchbearers, as well as preventing a repeat of the chaotic demonstrations that accompanied the torch in London and Paris.Already Tuesday evening, hundreds paraded with Tibetan flags while chanting "Shame on China". On Monday, protesters hung banners from the Golden Gate Bridge. As the torch went to London and Paris, the torch relay was subject to large scale protests in both cities.Tight security was planned in advance. Airspace restrictions have been put in place and over 700 security personnel are expected to be deployed including FBI agents. Police leave was cancelled. The United States Coast Guard patrolled the part of the route that was to take the torch along the waterfront at Fisherman's Wharf."We are trying to accomplish two goals here. One is to protect the right to free speech and the other is to ensure public safety, and here in San Francisco we are good at both of those things," said Nathan Ballard about the security. Ballard is a spokesperson for San Francisco Mayor's office."I am saddened that such a beautiful symbol of the torch, which unites people of different religions, different ethnic origin, different political systems, cultures and languages, has been attacked," said Jacques Rogge, the president of the International Olympic Committee, to the Wall Street Journal.The Beijing Organizing Committee said in a statement on Monday: "We strongly condemn the actions of the few 'pro-Tibet independence' activists who have attempted to sabotage the Olympic Torch Relay. The Olympic flame belongs to the world and these actions are a serious violation of the Olympic spirit. They are bound to fail and will surely arouse the resentment of peace-loving people who support the Olympic Games."Partygaming Plc, the worlds largest online poker company, has announced that it intends to float on the London Stock Exchange by the end of this month. Although it has not yet set a price, analysts in The City are speculating that the flotation could value the firm at up to STG£5bn. Such a valuation would make the flotation the largest in four years.The Gibraltar-based company, which owns the Partypoker brand, intends to sell 23% of the company in the flotation. If the company's initial public offering is successful, the firm will enter the FTSE 100 Index (the top 100 firms on the exchange by value). Its value would be greater than that of both British Airways and Boots.Partygaming Plc was founded in 1997 by Anurag Dikshit and has since grown at a huge rate - doubling profits in the past year alone to STG£371m. At peak times it attracts 70,000 simultaneous players.CEO of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, Corp., Duncan Brown, has stepped down after recent allegations that lottery retailers are winning more than customers."By mutual agreement, Duncan Brown and the Board of OLG have decided a change of leadership is appropriate," the lottery corporation said on Friday. "Brown has stepped down from his post as CEO."Before Brown joined OLG in 2004 he was CEO of the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario. He has worked in the lotto industry since the 1970s.A new CEO will be chosen by the Board in the coming months, the Interim CEO will be chosen in a few days.The CBC has raised new security concerns over the instant scratch tickets sold by the OLGC. CBC's the fifth estate reported in a special investigation on October 25 the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation's (OLGC) tickets are not being given to lottery winners and are claimed more often by the retailers who sell them averaging at CAN$500,000. The report investigated several aspects of the lottery retail trade, including a report that tickets were stolen by the clerks of convenience stores. One reported case involved a convenience store clerk who, after checking the ticket bought by a customer who brought suit, said he did not win. Retailers appeared to win prizes more often than the general public. However it also appeared that retailers were a core audience of the lottery games and due to that, statistically, could be expected to win more than the general public. The study found that the retailers were winning about 2.5 times more than the general audience and spending almost twice as much on their tickets. Retailers spent CAN$23.30 over the past four weeks. The average person spends CAN$12.30."We are here to make sure that all of our players have confidence in our process," OLG chief executive Duncan Brown said. "Lottery retailer means, in our broad definition, anybody that works for a lottery retailer or is related to a lottery retailer. That’s 140,000 people ... in Ontario....What was missing from the fifth estate’s numbers was the frequency of play by the retailers." There were 30 complaints referring to the instant scratch tickets from 1999 to 2006. Only once ware charges laid by police. Nine cases had special investigations, winnings totaling at CAN$3,629.Retailers could, in a process called "pin pricking," attempt to uncover codes printed on the instant scratch tickets under a latex coating that show which card is the winner.In the wake of earlier allegations, OLG devices were installed for anyone who wanted to check their own tickets, for security reasons."Any time someone connected with the OLG tries to claim a prize we conduct a higher level of investigation than what we would do with somebody who is not associated with OLG. And this includes looking at the tickets very carefully, especially in the case of scratch tickets," Teresa Roncon, a spokeswoman for the OLGC said.At a news conference in Toronto, Canada on March 26, 2007, Ontario Ombudsman André Marin called on the provincial government to transfer regulation of its lottery system from the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation (OLG) to the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario. This request follows an investigation the ombudsman's office undertook, 3 months ago, into the allegations of theft and fraud carried out by ticket retailers.The results of the investigation into the allegations were detailed in Marin's report, entitled A Game of Trust, released earlier in the day. The OLG has been ordered to transfer relevant files over to the Ontario Provincial Police, to determine whether a criminal investigation is warranted."The OLG is fixated on profit rather than on public service," Marin suggested in his opening statement. "It is too close to its retailers, who are not just its frontline sales force but some of its best customers," he continued. "It has lost sight of the fact that it is supposed to be a guardian of the public trust."The investigation was launched by Marin at his own intitiative, rather than inresponse to an individual complaint. Ombudsman investigators looked into the case of Bob Edmonds, a 78-year-old man who was cheated out of a CA$250,000 winning ticket by an unscrupulous retailer, as highlighted in a CBC television exposé. Over the course of the investigation, the Ombudsman’s Office received more than 400 other complaints related to OLG.Marin indicated that, since 1999, "at least 247 retail owners or their employees have won major lottery prizes", some of which he acknowledged were legitimate. He also reported that the OLG paid out "millions of dollars in prizes to retailers making dishonest claims...in amounts anywhere from $250,000 to $12.5 million."Marin found a systemic pattern of wrongdoing by some retailers, who he deemed to be the OLG's "partners in profit", with the OLG overlooking the abuse. Marin suggested that rather than get tough, "the OLG actually considered relaxing the rules on insiders."In his report, Marin proposed 23 recommendations including a zero-tolerance policy for retailer dishonesty, an adjudicative process to deal with disputed prize claims, a retailer code of conduct and the use of “secret shoppers” to test the retailers adherence to it."We accept the findings of these reports and the organization is moving quickly to implement the recommendations," said OLG Board Chair Michael Gough in a news release. "OLG has learned a great deal from the Ombudsman's report. It is fair, comprehensive and thoughtful," continued Gough.The total revenue from lotteries to the provincial government in Ontario for fiscal 2005-2006 was CA$6.36 billion. News of the resignation of OLG's CEO Duncan Brown, was reported just days before the ombudsman's report was tabled.On Monday, February 18, many people in the Canadian province of Ontario are to get a new holiday from work and school.Under new legislation passed shortly after their re-election in October, the provincial Liberal government under Premier Dalton McGuinty introduced the statutory holiday, called Family Day, to be celebrated on the third Monday of every February, starting this year."There is nothing more valuable to families than time together. And yet it seems tougher than ever to find, with so many of us living such busy lives," McGuinty was quoted as saying in a press release."That's why, on the third Monday of this coming February — and every February from now on — Ontarians deserve a new statutory holiday — Family Day."The electronic programme guide, TV-Browser, announced their intention to remove 16 private tv-channels on January 1st, 2008. These include the German channels ProSieben, RTL Television and Sat.1.According to a press release by the TV-Browser team, the collecting society VG Media plans to collect a usage fee for channel-program-data in EPGs beginning next year. Users will be charged between 0.02 and 0.04 € cents per page-view with a minimum fixed fee of at least 2000€.The Open-Source-project can not and does not wish to pay this fee; developers are considering showing certain programme highlights from the channels in question.A petition has been started to convince VG Media to abandon this charge fee.Manager of the festival Elke Hesse and mayor Hartmut H. Boehmer presented the welcoming speech. The Viennese Elke Hesse is the first woman who runs the festival. The Hessian minister of state delivered the greeting of the provincial government and chairman of Federal Dr. Norbert Lammert spoke to the audience. They characterised the cultural importance of the festival.First premiere was the classic of Goethes „Faust“ on the very same evening. Further premieres are „Dreigroschenoper“ from Bertolt Brecht, The Taming of the Shrew from William Shakespeare, „Das Spiel von Liebe und Zufall“ from Pierre de Marivaux an the childrens act Town Musicians of Bremen from Brothers Grimm. Supplemented by classical music concerts in the afternoon, the theater performances take place in the evening until August 6, 2006.The opening performance of Oslo's new Opera House is postponed due to security concerns. The late delivery of a critical stage control system means that the opera "Around the World in 80 Days", composed by Gisle Kverndokk, has to be rescheduled for next season.Opera chief Bjørn Simensen announced the postponement on Monday, describing it as "dramatic." The performance that will replace "Around the World in 80 Days" is not yet announced. The opening gala performance of the new Opera House on April 12th will proceed as planned.World-famous opera singer Luciano Pavarotti died early Thursday morning, according to a statement by his manager. On August 10th, Pavarotti, 71, was admitted to Modena University Polyclinic in Modena, Italy with a high fever. The cause of the fever was unknown, though some reports stated that he was being treated for pneumonia."The Maestro fought a long, tough battle against the pancreatic cancer which eventually took his life. In fitting with the approach that characterized his life and work, he remained positive until finally succumbing to the last stages of his illness," said Terri Robson, Pavarotti's manager in a statement to the press.Pavarotti had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer last year, and in July of 2006 he underwent surgery to remove a cancerous mass. According to Nicoletta Mantovani, Pavarotti's wife, he had also been receiving radiation treatments.Pavarotti's death came only one day after becoming the first recipient of the new "Excellence in Italian Culture Award" from the Italian government, the Italian Culture Ministry reported on Tuesday evening. The tenor received the award for promoting Italian culture abroad and within Italy itself. The opera house where he performed for the first time 40 years ago, La Scala opera house in Milan, stated it will organize a singing contest in honor of the Italian tenor.Luciano Pavarotti, 71, a world-famous opera singer has been admitted to the hospital due to a high fever. The cause of the fever is currently unknown, however some reports say that he is being treated for pneumonia. His condition is being reported as stable."He [Pavarotti] is currently under observation and his condition is satisfactory," said a spokesman at the Modena University Polyclinic in Modena, Italy. He is reportedly being treated in the hospital's cancer ward and hallways have been blocked off and are being protected by private guards.Pavarotti was admitted on Wednesday for observation, and the hospital states that he could be released "in the next few days." He was on vacation in Pesaro, staying at one of his homes when he fell ill.Pavarotti had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, and in 2006 underwent surgery to remove a cancerous mass. According to Nicoletta Mantovani, Pavarotti's wife, he has also been receiving radiation treatments."I can now say he is doing well. He's reacting well to a fifth cycle of radiotherapy. He's fighting like a lion and he has never lost his heart, also because a family he adores is by his side," said Mantovani.Investigation is still underway by the Orange County Sheriff's Office into the hit Tigger unleashed on a tourist at Walt Disney World on January 6.The status of Walt Disney World's separate investigation is unknown.Yesterday Captain Mark Strobridge confirmed with Wikinews that the investigation was on-going. "The Orange County Sheriff's Office is investigating the case and is not prepared to provide details at this time." They are not commenting to the press on any details.The Walt Disney Company (Canada) Ltd. has not replied to Wikinews' multiple requests for comment. The Monaco family has not talked to the press since an exclusive CBS The Early Show appearance a week ago Monday. They had originally talked to a FOX News affiliated channel.Two Sundays prior, video broke internationally of Disney employee Michael J. Fedelem as Tigger, hitting teen Jerry Monaco Jr. in the head. The New Hampshire tourist and his father both claim the hit was unprovoked. They claimed Jerry Jr. needed medical attention and prescription medicine that night. In contrast, most Internet pundits critical of the video have suggested that the hit was relatively weak. Fedelem himself claims the swat was indeed provoked, after the Monaco Jr was pulling on his costume, trying to suffocate him.The Teamsters Union Local 385 website appears to suggest that not all character cast members are unionized. Fedelem is known to be unionized, as he is mentioned on the website regarding a separate matter.Internet service provider (ISP) and telephone provider, Orcon Internet Limited, is going to start to provide television channels via super-fast broadband right to the customers television set. The service will be rolled out sometime next year after Telecom New Zealand has opened its lines to the competitors.The high speed internet Orcon wishes to use is called VDSL2+ which is able to go 100 megabits per second; this is an upgrade of Telecom's current technology, ADSL 2+. The new technology will be able to be installed when the government has opened up Telecoms lines to other ISPs. Scott Bartlett, regulatory manager of Orcon, said: "If we left this to the big telcos we wouldn't get VDSL2+ for 5-10 years. We don't have an existing legacy framework that limits us, so we can leap-frog them in terms of technology."The television channels/programmes will be delivered in high definition via IPTV, or Internet protocol television, to a set-top box, similar to those of Sky Network Television, connected to broadband.Orcon has invested NZ$30 million into the new television service, they will be teaming up with Siemens to deliver the new television system.Mr Bartlett said: "We are pitching to a market segment who were not necessarily totally nuts about watching the rugby live but still wanted high-definition quality television delivered by broadband."Orcon already has 52 channels secured, they channels will include the genres of comedy, science-fiction, news, music, weather and speaciality language channels. The movies will cost $1.00 each. And for $25 customers will be able to buy 25 channels or for $30 there will be 52 channels. For Sky television it costs $15 a week for an entry level package. "We don't believe we have a monopoly and every channel known to man, we just think we have the ones that are important to New Zealanders," the chief executive of Sky, John Fellet, said.Mr Fellet said they "would like to partner with Orcon and deliver our channels over Orcon's service, but if that did not happen, we are looking forward to competition heating up. Compete with us, that is fine. If you want to take our core product and add options yourself, that is an option as well. We have rights to rugby and movies, so whenever companies start seriously looking at it, they will look upon us as more of a supplier than a competitor.Sky has confirmed that they have contracts to deliver IPTV via Telecom services, as Sky is planning to release an IPTV service early 2007. "For the foreseeable future, until the infrastructure improves, the satellite is the best way to deliver live rugby but if you wanted to see a game that has been played, the internet is the best way to do that, by streaming," Mr Fellet said.A video released by as-Sahab features an audio track that is reputedly of Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaeda leader, entitled "The Response Will Be What You See, Not What You Hear".In it, bin Laden warns that the recent republication of the controversial Muhammad cartoons is more offensive than the killing of women and children and says that a "reckoning for it will be more severe.""If there is no check in the freedom of your words, then let your hearts be open to the freedom of our actions," bin Laden said. In the audio, he sought to reason with the "intelligent ones" in the European Union.In 2005, the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten published a series of cartoons, most of which depicted the Islamic prophet Muhammad. This eventually touched off a series of international protests and boycotts.In February, tensions flared up again after Danish police arrested three men in an alleged plot to murder cartoonist Kurt Westergaard. Newspapers in Denmark and elsewhere in the EU republished the cartoons in a display of free speech. This was met by protests and boycotts in Muslim nations.Nine films have advanced to "Phase II" of the 80th Academy Awards Foreign Language Film race, out of 63 international films entered.They are:Austria, The Counterfeiters, Stefan Ruzowitzky, directorBrazil, The Year My Parents Went on Vacation, Cao Hamburger, directorCanada, Days of Darkness, Denys Arcand, directorIsrael, Beaufort, Joseph Cedar, directorItaly, The Unknown, Giuseppe Tornatore, directorKazakhstan, Mongol, Sergei Bodrov, directorPoland, Katyń, Andrzej Wajda, directorRussia, 12, Nikita Mikhalkov, directorSerbia, The Trap, Srdan Golubovic, directorSeveral hundred Los Angeles-based members of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Science, which hosts the "Oscars", screened the eligible films to determine the shortlist. The nominees will be decided by 10 random members from the "Phase I" group, and ten Los Angeles and New York members specially invited to participate. They will view the screenings in marathon viewings, from Friday, January 18 to Sunday, January 20, in both cities.Nominations will be announced Tuesday, January 22, 2008 at the Samuel Goldwyn Theatre at the AMPAS headquarters. The award ceremony,  if not interrupted by the WGA writers' strike, will air Sunday, February 24, 2008, at the Kodak Theatre.Last night's Academy Award-themed parties around Los Angeles included the 9th annual Billboard Magazine-Children Uniting Nations bash.Musical entertainment at the party was provided by Jil Airgot, the voice of Edith Piaf in the Oscar nominated Film La Vie En Rose, DMX, Darryl "DMC" McDaniels from Run-D.M.C., Doug E. Fresh, popular salsa musician Sirak Baloyan, DJ Spinderella, Cisco, and Tiffany.Actor Ice-T, author David Pelzer, and football player Nnamdi Asomugha received the night's "Angel Award", presented by the charitable foundation.Scheduled to attend were stars like Eva Longoria, Marion Cotillard, Joel & Benji Madden, Wesley Snipes, Jane Seymour & James Keach, Ali Landry, Slash, Tracey Edmonds, James Denton, David Boreanaz, Evan Handler, Drew Lachey, Anthony Anderson, Martin Landau, King Adamte of Ghana, Princess Haya from Dubai, Princess Dalal Al Saud, the First Lady of Uganda, General Romeo Dallaire, Buzz Aldrin, Christian de la Fuente, Miss USA Rachel Smith, Steve Guttenberg, Marilu Henner, Doug E. Fresh, Gary Busey, David Carradine, Omarosa, Tommy Davidson, Tom Arnold, Joan van Ark, Eddie Steeples, Emma Stone, Patricia Kara, Three Six Mafia, Chamillionaire, Jared Padelecki, and Kevin Sorbo.Dancing with the Stars dancers Cheryl Burke and Julianne Hough were also present.The event was photographed for Wikinews by professional photographer Jessica Pinney.The 'text lottery' for tickets to the London Live 8 concert began this morning. The concert, which is part of an international music bonanza taking place across North America and Europe, is planned to coincide with this summers G8 summit in Edinburgh. Organised by Bob Geldof, the series of concerts are being held to raise awareness about Africa among young people. This is in contrast to the original Live Aid concerts which were more focused on raising money for Africa.This evening a spokesperson for Live 8 revealed to the media that by 17:00UTC this afternoon, over 1.5m text entries had been received. Those hoping to win one of the coveted 150,000 tickets, are asked to text the answer to a simple question to 84599. The question is Which city is nearest to the G8 summit in July? A) Berlin, B) Moscow, C) Edinburgh. Texts cost £1.50 each and winners will be randomly selected on the 12th June by a computer. The first £1.6m of proceeds from the competition will be donated to the The Prince's Trust.The lineup for the London concert is as follows:A crowd of over 10,000 people attended the dawn service on Saturday at Gallipoli, Turkey for the 100th anniversary of the landing of Australian and New Zealand troops there in 1915. The solemn remembrance ceremony was held at the site of the original Gallipoli landings, now known as Anzac Cove. The Gallipoli Campaign of the First World War is remembered as a failed attack in which thousands of lives were lost for little to no gain for either side. The campaign killed 45,000 Allied and 86,000 Turkish troops.Attendees at the dawn service included Prince Charles, the Prime Minister of Australia, and the Prime Minister of New Zealand.Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott's speech later in the day emphasised the importance of the day to Australians.  "Like every generation since, we are here on Gallipoli because we believe the Anzacs represented Australians at their best. Because they rose to their challenges, we believe it is a little easier for us to rise to ours. Their example helps us to be better than we would otherwise be", he said.New Zealand Prime Minister John Key at dawn described Gallipoli as a symbol of the highest ideals of Australians and New Zealanders "especially when they work side by side in the face of adversity".Prince Charles stirred emotions by reading extracts from a serviceman's diary. The diary entry, by Company Quartermaster Sergeant Benjamin Leane, was addressed to his wife and was written hours before the first Gallipoli landing. The centenary milestone of Anzac Day also drew a Turkish security force of 3700, both police and paramilitary. Attendees entered past six security checkpoints.A record 120,000 people also attended services at the Australian War Memorial in Canberra to commemorate the centenary.Over 100 people died in a massive stampede at the Chamunda Devi temple Jodhpur, in the western state of Rajasthan, India. 168 people were killed, with just as many injured. A temple wall collapsed, causing panic among ten of thousands of gathered Hindu worshippers who then began to run for safety, causing the stampede. Several are still believed to be trapped under the rubble. According to  Malini Agarwal, a Jodhpur police officer, over 10,000 Hindus had gathered at a temple to perform their religious rites. Most of the injured have been transported to the nearest hospital and appeals were being made for the remaining pilgrims to be calm and peaceful.In August another deadly incident resulting from a stampede occurred in the second day of a nine-day religious festival at the Naina Devi Temple in Himachal Pradesh state; more than 130 people were killed due to panic in Northern India.Another incident in January 2005 saw more then 250 Hindu worshippers killed in a stampede near a remote temple in the state of Maharashtra.Scottish singer-songwriter Gerry Rafferty's funeral was held in Paisley on Friday. Over 400 turned out on the frosty morning as the man behind Baker Street was laid to rest in where he married - St Mirin's Cathedral, less than a mile from his birthplace.Fans travelled from as far afield as New York to join family, friends and politicians at the service after Rafferty died on January 4 at the age of 63 in Gloucestershire, England. Born on Underwood Lane in Glenburn, Paisley, Rafferty started performing in local folk clubs in the 1960s before teaming up with Billy Connolly to form The Humblebums.Rafferty went on to join with childhood friend Joe Egan to form Stealer's Wheel, achieving chart success in 1973 with Stuck In The Middle With You - a track which later resurfaced when it appeared on Quentin Tarantino film Reservoir Dogs. Rafferty achieved international fame with Baker Street in 1978. He ultimately sold over 10 million records and Baker Street alone earned him an estimated £80,000 per year in royalties.Walter MacAusland, a friend and former music promoter and bar owner, described Rafferty on Friday as "incredibly clever, with an incredibly poetic mind." He remembered the man, whom he gave early gigs to in Glasgow, as a retiring man who disliked the attention of fame.Longterm friend John Byrne, an artist and playwright, delivered a eulogy. "Gerald could be incredibly funny. There are so many occasions when he had me laughing helplessly. But what some people may not appreciate is the lyrics to his songs were incredible. He wrote hundreds and hundreds of songs and he is the greatest songwriter Scotland has ever produced. When I saw him a few weeks ago his body was weak but his spirit as strong as ever. He had a serenity about him that I thought was wonderful." Days before the musician died Byrne received a late-night phone call. "Amongst the things he said, and the one that sticks in my mind and was germane to both of us, and we said it together, was: 'What does it profit a man if he gains the whole world, but loses his own soul?' I know that he went to meet his maker sober and unafraid, and fiercely curious and with enormous bravery." He concluded by saying "He wasn't a saint, but then which of us are? I loved him dearly." Byrne designed album sleeves for Rafferty's music. Egan also spoke: "We hadn't spoken for a couple of years, but that didn’t really matter because we were so close. After all, we'd lived out of each other’s pockets for years. But I'm sad. Really, really sad."Six of his family performed one of his songs unaccompanied at the service - his deceased brother Joe's children Neal, Brian, Eileen, Claire and Mark, and his daughter Martha. They sang Whatever's Written In Your Heart from his album City to City. "We all used to sing this song in the house as a kid," Martha said. "We loved singing his songs, and this one just seemed perfect for today."Father John Tormey led the Requiem Mass, saying Rafferty "was very much aware of the spiritual element and you will find that in his songs." Tormey acknowledged the man's tendency to shun fame and attention, saying he "shunned the trappings of fame and celebrity to be true to himself."Musicians attending included The Proclaimers, Robert Noakes and Graham Lyle. Proclaimer Craig Reid said "Music was Gerry's passion. He said music is something that you have to pass on to other people. You don't own it and it goes through you. His music reflected that." The two worked together on the song Letter From America, which Rafferty produced. Craig's twin brother Charlie recalled "Gerry was great for his refusal to sell out and his determination to do his own thing. This man was respected for what he did."Rafferty spent his entire life dealing with alcohol use. Nor was this his only health problem: "There have  been periods in my life where  I have experienced depression," he said in a recent interview. "It has been through some of my darkest moments that I have written some of my best songs. For me, singing and writing is very therapeutic.  It's much more effective than taking Prozac!"Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond attended, as did Members of the Scottish Parliament (MSPs) Hugh Henry, Wendy Alexander, Pauline McNeill and Robin Harper. Billy Connolly was unable to attend due to tour commitments in Australia. Raphael Ravenscroft, the saxophonist who famously played the main riff in Baker Street, recorded a track in Exeter to mark the occasion.After the funeral members of the public gave Rafferty his last applause as his cortege departed the cathedral, which is also a mile from Rafferty's former school, St Mirin's Academy. His body was taken for a private cremation.Geoffrey Hill was announced yesterday to have won the election for the post of Professor of Poetry at the University of Oxford. Hill, who won by a large majority, is the 44th man to hold the post, but the first one to have been elected by an email-based voting system.Hill, a graduate of Keble College, has won many awards for his poems and other writing.  He was described by The Daily Telegraph as "one of the most distinguished contemporary English language poets" and by the former Poet Laureate Andrew Motion as "one of the two or three best poets writing in English". He obtained 1,156 votes with his nearest rival, Michael Horovitz, receiving 353. In all, 2,500 votes were cast for the ten candidates. Speaking after the result was announced, Dr Seamus Perry from the university's English Faculty Board said that he was "simply delighted that a poet of Geoffrey Hill's eminence has emerged victorious." He added that Hill was "pleased" with the result, particularly as it came on his 78th birthday. Motion applauded Hill's success, saying that Oxford was "lucky to have him." Horovitz said that Hill would "probably give great lectures but they won't be anything different", and suggested that Hill, "like his poetry, won't be that accessible."The 2010 election follows the controversy of 2009, which saw candidate Derek Walcott withdraw before the contest after anonymous letters were sent to more than 100 Oxford academics giving details of an allegation of sexual harassment made against him in 1982.  The eventual winner, Ruth Padel, resigned after a few days when it emerged that she had briefed student journalists about the allegations. Perry said yesterday that Hill's election showed that "the chair did emerge intact from the scuffle."This year's election was not without incident either.  An eleventh candidate, Paula Clare, withdrew from the process complaining about pro-Hill coverage in the Oxford Gazette, the official journal of the university. She said that the process was "seriously flawed" and favoured Hill. The 2010 election was the first to allow voting by email: previously, voters had to visit Oxford and cast their votes in person.  The 2,500 votes in this election compares to less than 500 cast in the 2009 contest, as against a total potential electorate (all the graduates and academics of the university) in the region of 300,000.The post of Professor of Poetry dates from 1708, and former holders include Seamus Heaney and W. H. Auden. It is said to be "the most prestigious" job in poetry after the poet laureate. The professor has to give three lectures during the year and to deliver every other year a speech giving thanks to benefactors during the ceremony for the presentation of honorary degrees.  There is no obligation to write poetry for the university during the five-year tenure of the post, although past holders have taken steps to encourage student poetry.  Hill will be paid £6,901 per year.The University of Oxford has announced that it plans to introduce online voting for the 2010 election for the position of Professor of Poetry.  Under the current rules, voters have to visit Oxford on the day of the election to cast their vote.  The proposals, which require the approval of the university's governing authorities, would allow votes to be cast online or in person over a number of days. The hope is that overall turnout will improve: about 300,000 people were eligible to vote in the last election for the position as they were graduates or academics of the university, but less than 500 did.The 2010 election follows the controversy of 2009, which saw candidate Derek Walcott withdraw before the contest after anonymous letters were sent to more than 100 Oxford academics giving details of an allegation of sexual harassment made against him in 1982.  The eventual winner, Ruth Padel, resigned when it emerged that she had briefed student journalists about the allegations. Walcott described the election campaign as "low and degrading". Although the university has said that it wants to make the election "more accessible", there are concerns that the changes will make the process worse.  The director of the Poetry Society, Judith Palmer, said that changes would not address "the bigger problem", as the election process is "notoriously bruising".  She added that many poets in the past have refused to consider running and said that these reforms would "probably increase the number of good candidates ruling themselves out."The post of Professor of Poetry dates from 1708, with the most recent holder being the academic Christopher Ricks. Former holders include Seamus Heaney and W. H. Auden. It has been described as the "second-best poetry job in England", after that of Poet Laureate. The professor has to give three lectures during the year and to deliver every other year a speech giving thanks to benefactors during the ceremony for the presentation of honorary degrees.  There is no obligation to write poetry for the university during the five-year tenure of the post, although past holders have taken steps to encourage student poetry.  Padel would have been the first woman to hold the post.The University of Oxford is preventing students from accessing the legal, peer-to-peer online music service Spotify.  Officials in the university's Computer Services department (OUCS) say too much of the network's bandwidth is taken up by people using such services, slowing down the network for others. Spotify, which has more than 2.7 million users in the UK, allows users to listen to music stored on other users' computers over the internet, either for free with adverts, or without adverts for a monthly fee. While the university allows students to use its network for free for academic purposes, it places restrictions on peer-to-peer sites, where data is shared between many connected computers rather than being downloaded from a central source, as these require more bandwidth.  Students were said to be unhappy with the move. One said that she was "shocked" at the ban, another called it "discrimination against music lovers", and another said that he could "see nothing wrong" with students using Spotify, as "it's not as if every single person is on it every single hour of the day."  There were reports, however, that the ban had inconsistencies, with students at some colleges still able to connect to the service.A university spokeswoman said: "The university provides free internet access for students because it's an educational resource. If they want to use it recreationally as well that's no problem unless it uses so much bandwidth that it slows the network down." OUCS added, "Bandwidth that seems insignificant for one user will soon add up when scaled up to the many thousands of users connected to Oxford University's networks. It is one thing attempting to justify a network upgrade on the basis of a genuine academic requirement, such as the petabytes of data expected from CERN when their latest collider comes online."  In response, Spotify said: "We're sad to think of our student friends at Oxford University unable to listen to Spotify whilst on campus. We're talking to the university about how we can help them give the music back to their students."American heavy metal performer Ozzy Osbourne, who became famous as the lead vocalist for Black Sabbath and later as a solo act, has raised more than US$800,000 for The Sharon Osbourne Colon Cancer Program, founded by his spouse Sharon Osbourne at the Cedars Sinai Hospital, by auctioning off personal items.A number of the items that he auctioned off over the two day period have been seen on his reality TV show The Osbournes, which featured home life with Sharon, Ozzy and their two children. Amongst some of the higher-priced items were a carved walnut Victorian-style custom built pool table which raised $11,250, a painting from Edourad Drouot which fetched $10,500, a pair of Ozzy's famous round glasses which raised $5,250 and a dog bed given to Sharon by Elton John which sold for $2,375.Some more famous items were also amongst the 500 lots offered. Ozzy's black satin coat, complete with bat-wing cape, raised $3,300 and a hand-painted floral cup used regularly on The Osbournes made $1,625. A bronze plaque of a demon's head that was regularly seen in its position adorning the front door of their house had been expected to go for $800 to $1,200instead raised $8,750. A wire model of the Eiffel Tower from on the kitchen table sold for $10,000, while skull-covered trainers Ozzy had worn reached $2,625. Bidders came from as far away as Germany to buy what they could from his mansion in Beverly Hills, California.However, three cars included in the auction failed to attract bidders and did not sell. They were a 2006 Bentley Continental Flying Spur, estimated at $160,000 to $180,000, a 2005 Cadillac CTS-V sedan estimated at $30,000 to $40,000 and a 1950 Oldsmobile Futuramic 88 Club Coupe previously owned by author Danielle Steel estimated at $40,000 to $50,000. Sharon had earlier said of the cars "We're not great car people. They really don't do a lot for us.Darren Julien, president of Julien's Auctions, which organised the two-day sale, said "It did very well. It raised some good money for a very worthy cause.""For a celebrity garage sale, it was pretty spectacular.," he went on. He also commented on the fact that there was fierce competition for the many artworks included. "We had Ozzy fans bidding against these sophisticated fine art buyers, which you don't see every day. For the most part the metalheads were outbidding the art crowd."On Sunday evening, around 16:30 local time, three armed men wearing ski masks stole four paintings: Claude Monet's "Poppy field at Vetheuil," Edgar Degas' "Ludovic Lepic and his Daughter," Vincent van Gogh's "Blooming Chestnut Branches" and Paul Cezanne's "Boy in the Red Waistcoat" from Foundation E.G. Bührle museum in Zürich, Switzerland.The three armed robbers entered the museum half an hour before closing. One man with a pistol forced employees to the ground while the other two men stole the paintings. The whole ordeal lasted only 3 minutes. The men then proceeded to a van and left.The four paintings are worth a total of 163 million US dollars. It's said that it would be hard to sell the stolen paintings on the open market due to the popularity of the paintings. There is a reward of 90 thousand US dollars for the artwork.The robbers, who were still at large, stole the paintings Sunday from the E.G. Bührle Collection, one of Europe's finest private museums for Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art, police said.It was the largest art robbery in Swiss history and one of the biggest ever in Europe, said Marco Cortesi, spokesman for the Zürich police. He compared it to the theft in 2004 of Edvard Munch's The Scream and Madonna from the Munch Museum in Norway.Last week, Swiss police reported that two Pablo Picasso paintings were stolen from a Swiss exhibition near Zurich.Palestinian poet Mahmoud Darwish died Saturday in southern American state of Texas three days after heart surgery at Memorial Hermann Hospital in Houston.Darwish's poems are considered as an encapsulation of the Palestinian cause.Palestinians in Ramallah went to the streets, some weeping, gathered around candles in the darkened streets and lit candles expressing their sadness.Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas declared three days of mourning."The passing of our great poet, Mahmoud Darwish, the lover of Palestine, the pioneer of the modern Palestinian cultural project, and the brilliant national leader, will leave a great gap in our political, cultural and national lives," Abbas said. "Words cannot describe the depth of sadness in our hearts, Mahmoud, may God help us for your loss." A day after his death many intellectuals and politicians in the Middle East gave their tributes in honor of him.Ahmed Fouad Negm, a famous Egyptian poet, told Reuters "[h]e translated the pain of the Palestinians in a magical way. He made us cry and made us happy and shook our emotions, Apart from being the poet of the Palestinian wound, which is hurting all Arabs and all honest people in the world, he is a master poet." "Mahmoud Darwish knew how to express the attachment of an entire people to its land and the absolute desire for peace. His message, which calls for coexistence, will continue to resonate and will eventually be heard", French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said in a statement.Darwish will get the equivalent of a state funeral in the West Bank on Tuesday, the first since Yasser Arafat died in 2004.The nine day San Fermín festival, commonly known as the running of the bulls (or "el encierro" in Spanish) in Pamplona, Spain, is the most famous of all such events.Like every year, several revelers are gored, both locals and tourists. Some 800 000 tourists were estimated to have come to Pamplona last weekend. On Thursday, 13 people were admitted to the hospital, seven of whom were gored. Three of the latter had to have surgery.A 48-year-old man from Pamplona was in a critical condition after being gored in the chest. Other serious incidents involved a Mexican and a German man in their twenties. Runners from Poland, Norway, Spain and the United States also sustained injuries.Thursday's run lasted six minutes, where a normal run is only two minutes long. Normally, the pack of bulls stays together, but in this run they separated, which is more dangerous for the runners. Since 1924, there have been 13 fatalities, the last of whom was an American in 1995.The 825 metre run garnered international fame after Ernest Hemingway described the running in his 1926 book The Sun Also Rises. The end of the run is the bullring where the matadors will deal with the bulls.Animal rights activists protest the bull-running because they believe the tradition is cruel to the animals. Tomorrow, the eighth and final run will be held, at 8:00 a.m. CEST (UTC+2).The president of the organization for the construction of the new Acropolis Museum, professor Dimitrios Pandermalis, announced that the Museum will be ready to operate as an exhibition center for archaeological treasures in 2007. In response to this statement, the Greek government re-issued demands regarding the subject of the Parthenon Marbles' restoration to Greece from the United Kingdom.After visiting the construction site, Greek Culture Minister George Voulgarakis reiterated yesterday that the new Athens museum would be ready to receive visitors by the end of next year.The new Acropolis Museum, which is located in the area of Makriyannis, just a few metres away from the rock of the Acropolis, will cover an area of about 23,000 sqm. According to the Greek Ministry of Culture, the whole project would cost 129 million euros.The Parthenon Marbles — also known as the Elgin Marbles — are currently located in a specific hall in the British Museum of London. The demand from the side of the Greek government as well as from Greek or non-Greek organizations and British celebrities like Sean Connery for the restoration of the marbles — a demand which was an idea of the former Greek Culture Minister and actress Melina Mercouri — didn't have any result until today due to the denial from the side of the British Museum administration.In a blow to internet radio, Tim Westergren, founder of Pandora radio, today announced that from May 3 the station will be "proactively preventing access to Pandora's streaming service for most countries outside of the U.S.". In an email to all international users, Westergren cited "international licensing constraints" and the lack of any "global licensing organization" as reasons for the new policy.The station had been asking listeners to provide a U.S. zipcode before accessing the service. From tomorrow, the station will be identifying the listener's country of origin based on the IP address from which they are accessing the service. Listeners from outside the U.S. will not be allowed to log in.The shift in policy comes in the wake of good news for the industry's Save Net Radio campaign. The campaign has found support within U.S. Congress to overturn a ruling by the Copyright Royalty Board which threatened to increase licensing fees from 300% to 1,200%.Westergren has promised that the personalised stations created by international listeners will be preserved, in the hope of a future solution to the licensing issue.The Irish bookmaker, Paddy Power, has described this weeks conclave in the Vatican as "getting to be a bigger non-sporting betting event than the Oscars Hollywood movie awards."The bookmaker has been taking bets all week on who will be the next Pope, with Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger the 3-1 favourite. Second favorite was a Frenchman; Jean-Marie Cardinal Lustiger. The betting firm revealed that one customer has placed €1,000 (US$1,287) on the former Jew.In third place is a 78 year old Italian, Carlo Maria Cardinal Martini. Like the late Pope John Paul II, Martini has Parkinson's disease and is quite conservative. He was also a close confidante of John Paul II who debated with the theologian on Church dogma.Two explorers have set off from Knightsbridge, London Wednesday morning (0900 GMT) in a propeller-powered dune buggy heading for the Sahara. Giles Cardozo, age 29, from Dorset, with chief pilot and expedition leader Neil Laughton, age 45, an ex-SAS officer, will fly and drive the amazing two-seater vehicle more than 6,000-km (3,750-miles) to fabled Timbuktu on February 20. "I just can't wait to see their faces when we fly in and start playing football with them. I don't think they will be able to believe somebody in a flying car has just visited them," 'extreme golfer' Mr Laughton said before the departure. Timbuktu (Timbuctoo; Koyra Chiini: Tumbutu; French: Tombouctou) is an isolated city in Tombouctou Region, in the West African nation of Mali. They will traverse Europe and Africa about 42 days to arrive at the city in Mali, West Africa before returning home via Senegal. The home-made 450-kilogram Skycar has been designed by Cardozo in just 18 months. It is the world's first road legal bio fuelled flying car. It is a four cylinders modified Rage Motorsport off-road racing buggy which was approved by the government last month. It runs on bioethanol and is powered by a modified 140bhp Yamaha R1 superbike engine with a lightweight automatic continuously variable transmission from a snowmobile.The team invested about £250,000 ($380,000) to make the 1000cc engine Skycar desert-proof. In its maiden voyage, the flying car will be escorted by up to 13 people convoy including an eight-wheel truck, two Toyota Land Cruiser 4x4s and several motorbikes. It has left London's Sheraton Park Tower hotel, heading through the capital to Dunsfold airfield in Surrey. The team had initially planned to take the air route across the English Channel, but the 35km flight was vetoed by aviation authorities. Skycar is required by law to obtain a license from Britain's Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), including a permit from the British Microlight Aircraft Association (BMAA). Skycar spokeswoman, Charlie Bell, however clarified that the team was "in liaison with the CAA and they are looking to finalize the permit," adding that it is in order for the rest of the trip.The Skycar will thereafter fly over the high-altitude Pyrenees near Andorra, and would cross over the 14-km (nine-mile) Strait of Gibraltar. The prepared journey also includes the route through Mauritania, Atlas Mountains in Morocco and into Mali. It will further cross the harsh environment of Sahara’s remote “Rub' al Khali" (empty quarter), for up to two weeks amid real fears of terrorist attacks.The expedition will not have an easy task, especially since the Skycar will be tested to the limits amid punishing operating environments and weather conditions. "Clearly the reliability of the car is crucial," said Mr Laughton. "We're going to have to cope with wind chill temperatures as low as -30 deg C and blistering heat of up to 50 deg C. But it's been fully tested at a secret location and it 100 per cent works," he added.The Parajet Skycar is a prototype flying car. It was developed by British paramotor manufacturer Parajet. The flying car utilizes a paramotor and a parafoil attached to a modified dune buggy to achieve sustained level flight. Should the engine fail, the vehicle can glide back to the ground. Should the canopy rip, an emergency reserve parachute would be deployed. It requires three minutes to convert it from a car to an aircraft. The prototype runs on biodiesel and is fully road-legal.In 2004 British engineer Giles Cardozo, a paramotor manufacturer, has invented a fan-powered flying car to prove the Skycar is real and works. “I started making a paramotor on wheels that you sit on and take off and it suddenly occurred to me, ‘Why not just have a car that does everything?’” Cardozo said. His Wiltshire-based company Parajet built the paramotor that the adventurer Bear Grylls did fly near Everest in 2008. In 1998, Grylls, aged 23, became the youngest British to ascend Mount Everest. In May 2007, Grylls and Cardozo departed from Pheriche, about 32 kilometres south of Mount Everest.Cardozo has claimed he may finally have made it. “I’ve been dreaming about making flying cars since I was a boy, thinking about all the ways it could be done and seeing how all the other people in the world have done it wrong. No one’s ever made one that really does work that you can go out and buy. But here’s the ultimate solution: it’s cheap, it’s safe, it works, all the technology’s already there. So I pushed ahead and thought, ‘We’ve got to do it’,” he said.If the Skycar becomes successful, Cardozo’s company plans a limited production with a selling price of  £35,000 to £40,000 for a standard model and £60,000 for a high-performance sports version. “It will be a serious aircraft but also a proper road machine, with acceleration to match your average sports car,” says Cardozo. “I’m not going to sell millions of them but even if we sell 20 we’ll be laughing,” he added.The explorers, with the aid of sponsors, supporters and benefactor Sir Ranulph Twisleton-Wykeham-Fiennes, 3rd Baronet OBE (known as 'Ranulph (Ran) Fiennes'), have aimed to raise more than £100,000 for some charities including an African orphanage.American celebutante and businesswoman Paris Hilton has bashed a recent presidential campaign ad by 2008 U.S. presidential hopeful John McCain in which he compared his rival Barack Obama to celebrities such as Hilton and Britney Spears. In McCain's TV ad, it was stated that Obama was "the biggest celebrity in the world."Hilton recorded and uploaded a video to comedy website Funny or Die, in which she mocked McCain by calling him a "wrinkly white-haired guy.""Hey America. I am Paris Hilton, and I am a celebrity too," she states at the beginning of the video, but not before images of the Star Wars character Yoda and the cast of The Golden Girls are paraded across the screen apparently comparing the characters to McCain."Only I am not from the olden days, and I am not promising change like 'that other guy'. I'm just hot," remarked Hilton, adding, "I guess I am running for president," since McCain's TV ad showed her.McCain's advertisement, released early this week, states, "Is the biggest celebrity in the world ready to help your family?" According to the Boston Globe and video displayed on its website, the narrator then points out that "the real Obama promises higher taxes, more government spending. So, fewer jobs."Bill Burton, a spokesman for Obama, responded to the ad: "Is the biggest proponent of George Bush’s tired, failed policies ready to bring about change? Another day brings another dishonest attack from John McCain. While Senator McCain knows that Senator Obama has proposed cutting taxes for 95% of American families, what he’s not telling us is that he wants to give $4 billion in tax breaks to the oil companies, continue giving tax breaks to corporations that ship our job overseas, and provide no direct tax relief for more than 100 million middle-class families."Hilton appears in good spirits in her video and even thanks McCain for endorsing her. "So thanks for the endorsement white-haired dude. And I want America to know, that I am like totally ready to lead."Paris Hilton is out of jail, after serving three weeks in the same. She was imprisoned due to a violation of her probation, which came as a result of a Driving Under the Influence (DUI) charge.Reuters reported that her face expressed joy at her release as she left the Century Regional Detention Facility in Lynwood, California, where she served 23 days, at 12:15 a.m. PT. Hilton also reportedly left the jail looking a few pounds thinner than when she entered.Ignoring the questions from the surrounding paparazzi and photographers, Hilton climbed into  a white sport utility vehicle where her parents, Kathy and Rick Hilton, were waiting. Dodging the photographers on the street, they then went to Hilton's grandparents' house located in Holmby Hills, one of the richest neighbourhoods in the state of California. The way to their destination was not clear, though; cars full of paparazzi were following them all the way. The L.A. Sheriff's Department spokesman, Steve Whitmore, said "she fulfilled her debt. She was obviously in good spirits. She thanked people as she left."While Paris's original sentence was 45 days long, she was released early based on "a standard credit applied for good behavior." CNN's Larry King will be hosting an exclusive, "post-jail" interview with Paris Hilton on Wednesday, on CNN.Paris Hilton has been released from prison after serving only three days of her 23-day sentence, reports TMZ.com, though she will receive credit for five days (as the authorities in Los Angeles have counted Sunday evening and Thursday morning as a part of her sentence).Reports indicate that Hilton was overcome by the stress of incarceration (credited as "medical reasons"), and reached an agreement to serve the remaining days of her sentence under house arrest. She will have to spend 40 days in house arrest, forced to wear a tracking ankle bracelet. The 26-year-old Hilton was released from the Los Angeles Jail Thursday and was placed into house arrest.In January, the hotel heiress pleaded guilty to charges of alcohol-related reckless driving. In February, the California highway patrol caught her violating her three year probation. Hilton on Sunday entered the Century regional detention facility in Los Angeles, almost immediately after the MTV Movie Awards.Opera singer-turned-talk show host Charlotte Church wanted to book hotel heiress Paris Hilton on her program, to insult her. Church says Hilton is too expensive though, charging USD$650,000 for an appearance, and her producers dropped the idea.Church told a British radio show "We asked Paris to be on the program because I could take the mick out of her and not feel at all bad about it — she's such a complete airhead. But she demanded a ridiculous amount of money — like the price of a big house just to say a few stupid things. She's hardly going to announce anything world-changing, is she? It's absolutely pathetic, isn't it?"The Charlotte Church Show has aired on Britain's Channel 4 since September 1, 2006.Parker who turns 40 Friday and is best known for  her role as the Manolo Blahnik shoe-crazed Carrie Bradshaw on the HBO comedy, Sex and the City, was ousted after less than one year of a multi-year contract.  She signed a three-year $38 million deal with the San Francisco-based retailer in mid-2004 and has only appeared in ads for the company since the 2004 holiday season."While Gap will always seek partnerships with celebrities, musicians and rising stars, we don't have any future plans to sign a single person to a multi-season deal like the unique and special relationship we enjoyed with Sarah Jessica," Gap said in a statement Monday, stopping short of calling the ad campaign a failure. One such rising star slated to appear in the upcoming summer white denim promotion for Gap is 17-year-old Grammy-nominated British singer Joss Stone. Although Gap would not say its Parker ad campaign was less than successful, the same can not be said for stock market pundits. "If you're like me, and have gotten a little sick of hearing Sarah Jessica Parker sing about how much she likes being a girl on those Gap commercials," Alyce Lomax, a stock market commentator for The Motley Fool web site, said. "Investors who have been watching this stock know that despite the best efforts of Ms. Parker and the creative teams that came up with the ads, Gap's quarterly fashion sense continues to be, well, flattish ... in the meantime, other, hotter retailers have stolen the show."In a statement to reporters, Parker called the spilt with Gap a mutual decision, and walks away $38 million richer and recently signed a 2-year deal with former employer HBO to develop future programming for the network. Parker is also scheduled to appear in two upcoming comedy films, a movie adaptation of the Comedy Central series, Strangers with Candy, as well as The Family Stone, costarring Diane Keaton and Claire Danes.More Grade 11 males at Don Mills Collegiate Institute are proficient in Klingon than French, suggests a survey conducted by this reporter.Of 35 students who completed the survey and indicated that they were male and in Grade 11, only two indicated that they would be able to carry on a conversation, read newspapers and write personal letters in French. Three indicated they could do so in Klingon. (A fourth Klingon-speaker did not indicate gender or grade. No females, or males in other grades, checked off the language.)The Klingon language was constructed by American language professor Marc Okrand for the namesake militaristic race of aliens in the Star Trek TV series. Its vocabulary, like the Klingon culture, focuses on fighting and space travel, and is often found lacking when other topics are discussed. Some devoted fans of the series learn the language using books written by Okrand, and use it in conversation with other fans, particularly at science fiction conventions (which they often attend in costume). Unlike French, however, it is not a language of business, government or scholarly writing anywhere on Earth.In Ontario, students educated primarily in English must take French classes from Grades 4 through 9 to receive their Ontario Secondary School Diplomas. However, transfer students from outside Canada may take only the Grade 9 class. No other languages besides English and French are mandatory.The sample of Grade 11 males was small and possibly non-representative. Also, students only had to claim, but not demonstrate, their knowledge of a particular language. Therefore, the more‑Klingon‑than‑French result is tentative at best. (Klingon ranks several places behind French if the entire survey group is considered.) However, it underscores a real problem: a dearth of French proficiency in TDSB students and graduates. Only 30% of senior students surveyed say they can speak a basic level of French, and only 30% can read and write French at a basic level.The 17th annual Partnership for a Drug-Free America study on teen drug abuse released its findings Thursday morning. This is the second year the survey studied the abuse of legal drugs, and the first year it looked into the use of over-the counter products to get high. The study showed an increasing trend among the nation's teenagers using prescription drugs, such as Vicodin and OxyContin, to get high. Partnership Chairman Roy Bostock summarizes the results as "the first time our national study finds that today's teens are more likely to have abused a prescription painkiller to get high than they are to have experimented with a variety of illegal drugs. Generation Rx has arrived."The Partnership for a Drug-Free America is a non-profit organization launched in 1987 that employs communications professionals for the aim of reducing American demand for illegal drugs in today's prohibition control strategy. The group often collaborates with the U.S. Office of National Drug Control Policy. The results presented were from the 2004 Partnership Attitude Tracking Study that surveyed the nation's largest sample size ever in terms of ongoing analysis of teen drug-related attitudes: more than 7,300 teens. Studies pertaining to drugs are often flawed because of their use of a self-reporting methodology. It is very easy for participants in a non-scientific study — especially teenagers — to under, over, or misreport their  data. The margin of error is plus or minus 1.5 percent.The study reported that about one in five teenagers has abused a prescription painkiller — more than those who have experimented with either ecstasy, cocaine, crack or LSD. The most popular prescription drug abused by teens was Vicodin, with 18 percent (about 4.3 million youths) reporting. OxyContin, as well as drugs for attention-deficit disorder like Ritalin or Adderall, came in second place with 10 percent. One in eleven teens (2.2 million) had abused over-the-counter products such as cough medicine. Fewer than half the teens in the study (48 percent) believed experimenting with prescription drugs was a "great risk." Additionally, many teens chose to use legal drugs because of "ease of access."The number of teens reporting marijuana use declined to 37 percent last year, compared with 42 percent six years earlier. Over the same amount of time, ecstasy use declined from 12 percent to 9 percent, and methamphetamine use dropped from 12 percent to 8 percent.Employees of British video game retailer GAME are reporting an email sent around stores to remove the popular Wii board party game Mario Party 8 and all applicable advertising due to the game having a word considered to be offensive in Britain.The word is "spastic," and can be seen on the "Shy Guy's Perplex Express" board. If a player lands on one of several certain green spaces, Magikoopa will appear and, before rearranging the train cars, will say, "Magikoopa magic! Turn the train spastic Make this ticket tragic!"Nintendo is currently developing an updated version of the game without the offending word.This is not the first time a video game has been banned in the UK for including the word "spastic." Last month, Ubisoft announced a recall of its PSP brain-training game Mind Quiz after a mother of a child with cerebral palsy complained because the game called her a "spastic" for not doing well.It happens once a year. Nearly all of Europe's eyes are on 25 musical acts on finale night. Whether you love it or you hate it, it has your attention. Hundreds of millions are watching them. Whether viewers are waiting for the performance of a lifetime or a hilarious slip-up, for those three minutes their attention is owned by each respective singer.That's the feeling that the entrants in Moscow will know on Saturday, and it's also the same feeling the eight singers who were interviewed by Wikinews have experienced. Last week, eight singers from eight different countries took time out of their various schedules to discuss their favorite moments from competing, their own personal anecdotes, advice they give to the performers this year in Moscow, who they think will win, and most importantly to them, what they're doing now and what they're offering to their audience.This is the sixth and final interview set the English Wikinews will publish in the run-up to the semi-final and final rounds of the Eurovision Song Contest. Mike Halterman conducted all interviews, and will conduct additional interviews after the Contest. The final round airs May 16 at 9 p.m. CET; check with your national broadcaster's website for possible delays. Where available, the Contest's final round will also be broadcast on national radio.In what trial watchers say is a blow to Michael Jackson's defense, Judge Rodney Melville ruled Monday to allow the use of past allegations of child molestation in the trial. The decision was reached in deliberations done in the jury's absence. The ruling means that prosecution, led by District Attorney Tom Sneddon, can introduce what it says are 5 cases of prior molestation. The prosecution, which originally submitted 10 cases to the deliberations, was ruled able to proceed with 5 due to a 1995 law passed in California. The law, aiming specifically at child molestation and domestic violence cases, is unlike other cases where the prior criminal conduct of the defendant is not permissable in court.The ruling will allow testimony in cases arising from over 10 years ago. Allegations involving the behavior of Jackson, now aged 46, with boys 10 to 13 years old at the time will be presented. So far, only one boy has agreed to testify. In the other 4 cases, third party witnesses or family members, are planned.Jackson's defense attorney, Thomas Mesereau jr. worked to have the cases excluded during deliberations. Noting that Macaulay Culkin, of the movie "Home Alone" fame and once frequent visitor of the Jackson's Neverland ranch, in an interview with Larry King has previously and publicly stated "Nothing happened." Mesereau promised to make a "mini-case" out of each of the new allegations, which could drag the trial on indefinitely. The AP reports him saying, "You can't stop the defense from putting on a full-blown defense and I mean just that."In 1993, a molestation charge was settled out-of-court for $26m by Jordan Chandler, ending his accusations against Jackson. His mother plans to testify in this trial.The leader of a Gainesville, Florida church announced yesterday that the church had canceled its plan to burn copies of the Qur'an tomorrow but later stated that he had reconsidered his decision. Earlier yesterday, Pastor Terry Jones said that the Dove World Outreach Center would cancel the burning of the Islamic holy book, stating that Imam Feisal Abdul Rauf, had agreed to relocate Park51, a mosque and community center to be located a few hundred meters away from the site of the September 11, 2001 attacks.In a press conference on Thursday, Jones announced that "we have agreed to cancel our event on Saturday and on Saturday I have agreed to meet with the Imam." However, Rauf has denied that he struck a deal with the pastor, saying that he was surprised by the announcement of a deal.On Thursday night, Jones insisted that he had struck a deal with Rauf, saying that he had been "clearly, clearly lied to". Jones also said that he is having second thoughts of his earlier statement on Thursday afternoon. "I am glad that Pastor Jones has decided not to burn any Qur'ans. However, I have not spoken to Pastor Jones," Rauf said on Thursday. He followed up, stating that "We are not going to toy with our religion or any other. Nor are we here to barter. We are here to extend our hand to build peace and harmony."The developer of the New York City mosque in question also denied that a deal had been reached with Jones, stating that "The Muslim community center called Park51 in lower Manhattan is not being moved. The project will proceed as planned." On Wednesday, Jones had announced his intention to go ahead with the September 11 Qur'an burning. He also said that he has support from churches around the United States, and  that people from around the country have been mailing him Qur'ans to burn. The pastor also said that he has received over 100 death threats and has taken to carrying a gun on his hip for self-defense. In the past, the Dove World Outreach Center has declared that "Islam is of the devil" and that the religion is "evil" as it does not teach that Jesus was the son of God. Even though the church announced that it would continue with the plan, Jones could run into trouble as the Gainesville fire department has denied the church a permit to burn the Qur'ans. Many prominent figures have condemned the Qur'an burning. Yesterday morning, US president Barack Obama responded, "... what he's proposing to do is completely contrary to our values as Americans," and warned, "This is a recruitment bonanza for Al Qaeda." In his interview recorded on Wednesday for Good Morning America, Obama stated that "this stunt that he is talking about pulling could greatly endanger our young men and women in uniform who are in Iraq, who are in Afghanistan", adding, "This could increase the recruitment of individuals who'd be willing to blow themselves up in American cities, or European cities." General David Petraeus, NATO commander in Afghanistan, said on Wednesday that the plan would endanger US troops worldwide. In response to the general's comments, Jones had told the press that "we understand the general's concerns, we are taking those into consideration. We feel it's maybe the right time for America to stand up. How long are we going to bow down? How long are we going to be controlled by the terrorists, by radical Islam? ... As of right now, we are not convinced that backing down is the right thing."Other prominent people from around the globe condemned the plan earlier this week, including the head of the US State Department, Hillary Clinton. She called it a "disrespectful, disgraceful act," while US Attorney General Eric Holder pitched in, calling the book burning "idiotic and dangerous."Republican Tea Party activist and former Alaska governor Sarah Palin also chimed in, saying that burning the Qur'an would be an "insensitive and an unnecessary provocation — much like building a mosque at ground zero." She also said that people have the constitutional right to burn the book, and that "I would hope that Pastor Terry Jones and his supporters will consider the ramifications of their planned book-burning event. It will feed the fire of caustic rhetoric and appear as nothing more than mean-spirited religious intolerance. Don't feed that fire."Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper condemned the plan, saying that his God was a tolerant God, and suggesting that freedom of religion comes from a tolerant spirit. A coalition of religious leaders from different religions including Islam, Christianity and Judaism met in Washington to condemn "International Burn a Koran Day". People took to the streets in the Muslim-majority countries of Afghanistan and Pakistan in protest. In Indonesia, the country with the world's largest Muslim population, thousands of protesters gathered around the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta on Monday.Due to the increase in tension caused by this activity, INTERPOL released an alert warning of attacks and asking member nations to contact the international police agency if they receive information on public safety hazards.Despite the criticism, legal commentators say that Jones and his church have the constitutional right to burn the book, which is considered by Muslims to be the word of God. "The First Amendment, as it's been interpreted, would probably not win if it were put up to a vote. It is very hard to explain to people why this sort of conduct should be permitted," said Stephen Gillers, a law professor at New York University.Legendary musician Sir Paul McCartney has boycotted China in response to a preview of BBC news footage that was filmed undercover at a fur market in Guangzhou, China. The footage, some of which is to air during BBC's Six O'Clock News at 18:00 GMT on November 28, 2005, shows animals (particularly dogs and cats) being thrown from the top of buses and being dropped into boiling water. McCartney's wife, Heather, also watched the footage and alleged that some footage she had seen clearly showed that the animals were alive when they were skinned. The footage, which was filmed by an investigator connected to the animal rights group PETA, shows cats squirming in a bag before being thrown into boiling water, and then skinned in a laundrette drier-like machine.McCartney slammed the practices, saying, "It's like something out of the Dark Ages. And they seem to get a kick out of it. They're just sick, sick people," referring to the apparent smiles and laughter of the workers handling the animals as they are killed.He and his wife called for a boycott of Chinese goods, adding that this was unacceptable behaviour from the nation to host the next Olympics.However, the Chinese Ambassador to London's spokesperson said that China is not to blame. "The fur trade mostly feeds markets in the US and Europe. This fur is not consumed in China. So the Americans and Europeans should accept the blame."Sir Paul McCartney is scheduled on Saturday, November 12, to perform the first concert broadcast live into space.  Performing in Anaheim, CA, McCartney will awaken astronaut Bill McArther and cosmonaut Valery Tokarev on the International Space Station.  Songs played will include "English Tea" from his newly-released album "Chaos and Creation in the Backyard."  Also on the playlist is the Beatles classic "Good Day Sunshine".The idea for the show originally came from a report McCartney received about "Good Day Sunshine" being used to wake astronauts aboard the space shuttle Discovery as it prepared to land in August.  Said Sir Paul "I was extremely proud to find out that one of my songs was played for Discovery this summer.  In our concert we hope to return the favor."This event will mark the first time a live music show is broadcast into space.  It should be noted that only his voice will be heard, as there is no video feed from the site.  The former Beatle has seen interest in his work climb recently with the release of a critically-acclaimed album and a children's book, as well as a series of American commercials feature songs from his new album and a collage of video clips and photos detailing his life's work.The NBC comedy series Parks and Recreation will experience a shake-up in its cast as Paul Schneider, a regular cast member with the critically acclaimed series, will depart at the end of this season.Officials with the show have also announced this month that Rob Lowe will make an extended guest appearance on the series, and Adam Scott will join as a regular cast member.Michael Schur, who co-created Parks and Recreation along with The Office creator Greg Daniels, said Schneider is expected to make guest appearances in the third season.Schneider plays Mark Brendanawicz, a jaded city planner who started in the first season as a love interest for the show's protagonist Leslie Knope (Amy Poehler), the deputy director of a small town Indiana town. Currently, Schneider's character is dating Rashida Jones's character, Ann Perkins.Schneider is leaving the show to focus on his movie career, following the success of such independent films as Bright Star. Schur added when the character was originally conceived, it was anticipated he would appear infrequently in Parks and Recreation, switching between his city planner job and work in the private sector."It's not something you usually do on TV shows but we thought it was a good way to illustrate both the positive and negative aspects of working for a government," Schur told the Los Angeles Times. "It was one of the first things we talked about with him."Schur added, "He's going to remain in the world of the show in a way that not only allows but hopefully demands that he'll reenter it. He's not going to be killed in some weird accident."Lowe and Scott are expected to join the show in May, during the final two episodes of the season. Schur has indicated they will both play characters coming in from outside Pawnee to help the town deal with budget problems.Lowe, fresh off his departure from the ABC drama series Brothers & Sisters, will continue a string of guest appearances into the third season. Adam Scott would leave his regular role on the Starz comedy series Party Down to join the permanent cast of Parks and Recreation."Adam is one of the funniest and most versatile performers around," Schur told Variety magazine. "When we designed the character he is going to play, we used him as the dream scenario of who we could get."Parks and Recreation received mixed to negative reviews during its first season, with detractors claiming it was too similar to The Office, and that Leslie Knope too closely resembled that show's protagonist Michael Scott), played by Steve Carell.But The second season, despite lagging in the Nielsen ratings, has been a critical success, with several commentators declaring it a major improvement over the first season and one of the best comedies currently on television.Paul the Octopus, the octopus who became famous for correctly predicting the winner of Germany's seven matches at the 2010 FIFA World Cup, as well as the final, has died of natural causes. During the football tournament in South Africa earlier this year, Paul, who lived in an aquarium in Oberhausen, Germany, chose between two glass boxes placed in his tank, which would have a German flag and the flag of the country which the country would be playing against. Both boxes would contain food, and the box which Paul chose to eat out of would be the winners. The octopus correctly predicted the result of all of Germany's games, and hypothesised that Spain would beat the Netherlands in the final — which they duly did. Paul became internationally famous for his correct predictions, and was dubbed by some as the "oracle octopus". All his predictions were filmed and broadcast across the world, and he became a hit on the video sharing website YouTube. During the World Cup, Rupert Adams of William Hill, one of Britain's largest bookmakers, said that the octopus's success rate was remarkable. "If you had had ten pounds on each and every prediction then re-invested your winnings you would currently have over 1,450 pounds," he said. "It's an astonishing feat to get six predictions in a row. I am told people are walking into our shops and saying 'I will have what the Octopus predicted.'" After the World Cup this year, it was announced Paul would retire. "He won't give any more oracle predictions — either in football, nor in politics, lifestyle or economy," a spokesperson for the aquarium said at the time. "Paul will get back to his former job, namely making children laugh." Paul's life was not without controversy. During the tournament Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said that the media storm was a sign of decay in Western culture. "Those who believe in this type of thing cannot be the leaders of the global nations that aspire, like Iran, to human perfection, basing themselves in the love of all sacred values," he said.Paul's death was announced by the aquarium on Tuesday, when a spokesperson said that he had died of natural causes during the night. "We are consoled by the knowledge that he enjoyed a good life here and that the care provided for him by our dedicated displays team could not have been bettered," he said. He added that common octopuses live for only a few years. Paul's final prediction was that England would host the World Cup in 2018. A special clothing line and a mobile phone application are to be released, along with a documentary tracking his life. "His success made him almost a bigger story than the World Cup itself," the spokesperson said. "We may decide to give Paul his own small burial plot within our grounds and erect a modest permanent shrine. While this may seem a curious thing to do for a sea creature, Paul achieved such popularity during his short life that it may be deemed the most appropriate course of action."Paul Winchell, the English voice of Gargamel in the animated children's show The Smurfs and Tigger in Disney's Winnie the Pooh died on 23 June at age 82. Winchell also voiced several other characters including Boomer in Disney's The Fox and the Hound and several characters for Hanna-Barbera productions.Winchell, in addition to being a prolific voice artist, patented more than 30 inventions including an artificial heart, a flameless cigarette lighter, and a disposable razor.Paul Winchell won a Grammy Award in 1974 in the Best Recording For Children category for his work on "The Most Wonderful Thing about Tiggers" in the animated Disney film Winnie the Pooh and Tigger Too. His first performance as Tigger was in the 1968 Disney film Winnie the Pooh and the Blustery Day which won an Academy Award.Executives of the U.S. Fox network said Friday that singer Paula Abdul was cleared of any wrongdoing in regard to charges that she had an improper relationship with former American Idol contestant Corey Clark. The network cleared her to return to the show for its fifth season.American Idol has topped network television ratings as the most-watched program in the U.S. for the past three years. Abdul is one of the three judges of the talent/variety program, where she is popularly referred to as the "nice one" by contestants. Fox reportedly hired a former federal prosecutor to lead an investigation into whether Abdul compromised the integrity of its flagship series. After an investigation of more than three months, interviewing 43 people and looking over documents supplied by both Abdul and Clark, the investigation showed no proof that Abdul had a sexual relationship with Clark.Clark was booted from the second season of Idol after it was discovered he hid a previous domestic violence arrest record from producers. Two years later, he told reporters that he had been involved in a secret romantic relationship with Abdul, which would have been a violation of the show's rules and Abdul's employment contract."I'm grateful this ordeal is over, and I'm so looking forward to getting back to the job I love," Abdul said in an Associated Press interview after the decision was announced to keep her on the show.The family and friends of the world-famous opera singer Luciano Pavarotti have gathered in his hometown of Modena, Italy to pay their final respects. Pavarotti died on Thursday of complication from pancreatic cancer at the age of 71.The Roman Catholic service at the cathedral in Modena was attended by such international stars as fellow tenors Plácido Domingo and José Carreras, as well as U2's Bono. It included Mozart's Ave Verum Corpus, Giuseppe Verdi's Ave Maria and a message of condolence from Pope Benedict XVI, who said Pavarotti had "honored the divine gift of music through his extraordinary interpretative talent". At least 800 people were present in the cathedral, but thousands gathered outside to watch the service on a television screen placed in Modena's main square. The service was also shown on Italian state television and via the Internet. A recording of Pavarotti's famous duet with his father in 1978 was played and prompted a standing ovation of the crowd inside and outside the cathedral, and Italy's air force gave a flyover releasing smoke in the colours of the Italian flag. It is estimated that over 100,000 people have seen Pavarotti's casket in the past two days, where it has been publicly displayed in Modena's main piazza, to many of Pavarotti's recordings and appearances shown on the public screen. Pavarotti will be buried in his family plot in a private ceremony at the Montale Rangone cemetery near Modena.A report published last week in the Toronto Star by Professor Michael Geist of Canada's University of Ottawa claims a copyright case under the Class Proceedings Act of 1992 may see the country's largest players in the music industry facing upwards of C$6  billion in penalties.The case is being led by the family and estate of the late jazz musician Chet Baker; moving to take legal action against four major labels in the country, and their parent companies. The dispute centres around unpaid royalties and licensing fees for use of Baker's music, and hundreds of thousands of other works. The suit was initially filed in August last year, but amended and reissued on October 6, two months later. At that point both the Canadian Musical Reproduction Rights Agency (CMRRA) and Society for Reproduction Rights of Authors (SODRAC) were also named defendants.Following a world premiere during the Director's Fortnight at the Cannes Film Festival, the latest film by Thai auteur Pen-Ek Ratanaruang made its Thailand premiere on Tuesday night in a screening for the press and celebrities.Before the screening of the new film, Ploy, the director and his stars took the rostrum for a question-and-answer session, during which Pen-Ek pulled out a digital camera and took photos of the presenter, the press and the actors.There was one ticket that matched all the numbers in last night's Powerball lottery game. The ticket was sold at the Speedway convenience store in eastern Indiana.Lottery officials will not know who won the jackpot worth an estimated $314 million until the winner comes forward. The convenience store will receive $100,000 for selling the winning ticket.Last night's winning numbers were: 8, 23, 29, 35 and the Powerball was 19.Also sold in Indiana was a ticket matching five of the six numbers, earning $200,000. The jackpot grew so huge because there was not a winner since early June.The Powerball lottery game is sold in 19 states. Wednesday's jackpot falls back down to $15 million.Peruvian bolero singer Lucho Barrios has died at 75 in a Lima, Peru hospital, of renal failure and respiratory problems. Barrios was well-known through all the South American countries.Barrios was taken to the Dos de Mayo Hospital on Monday due to a pulmonary thromboembolism. He remained in the intensive care unit in a serious condition, until his death on Wednesday at 7:32 AM local time."His death is a pain to Peru and the lovers of the bolero," said Peruvian President Alan García. José Fuentes, President of the Dos de Mayo Hospital, reported that he died due to multiple organ failure, because of the severe diseases he had. "He underwent dialysis at 2 AM in a last attempt to make him recover," said Fuentes, "but unfortunately his body no longer responded."Barrios was diabetic, and had suffered his first thromboembolism almost a year ago, which he recovered from. "He was okay, he was healthy, and he started singing again because he told me, 'I'm gonna die on the stage'," said his daughter, Milagros Barrios.On Sunday Peter Capaldi was named as the twelfth Doctor on BBC's Doctor Who.   The announcement was made as part of a live broadcast by the BBC.Capaldi had been considered by executive producer  Steven Moffat for the role of the eleventh doctor before  Matt Smith was ultimately chosen.  The role became vacant after Smith announced earlier this year that he would be leaving the show. Capaldi said of his selection for the role, "Being asked to play the Doctor is an amazing privilege. [...] Like the Doctor himself I find myself in a state of utter terror and delight. I can't wait to get started."Capaldi's first screen appearance in this role is scheduled to air on television in late 2013.  He will be the second oldest Doctor in the show's history, with only the original Doctor being older.As of earlier today, the official BBC Doctor Who Facebook page has 138,238 likes and 47,809 shares for the news of Capaldi taking on the role.Movie studio company, New Line Cinema has announced that movie director Peter Jackson will never be allowed to work on another New Line film. This announcement will also mean that Mr Jackson will not be allowed to film the prequel titled The Hobbit to The Lord of the Rings films he directed.The announcement was made mainly because New Zealander Mr Jackson and his partner, Fran Walsh, filed a law suit against New Line in 2005 as they believed New Line owed them much more money than they received for The Lord of the Rings trilogy as shown to them by a partial audit of The Fellowship of the Ring. Mr Jackson described it as "financial anomalies," which New Line refused to account for. "Fundamentally, our legal action is about holding New Line to its contractual obligations and promises." The film trilogies have so far managed to earn US$3 billion in ticket sales since 2001.New Line has repeatedly refused permission for Mr Jackson to audit the other films in the trilogy The Two Towers, and The Return of the King, even though Mr Jackson described film auditing as a common practice. "We don't understand why New Line Cinema has taken this position," Mr Jackson said.In an interview with the Sci Fi Wire, Robert Shaye, co-chairman of New Line and executive producer of The Lord of the Rings, said that New Line does not want to do any films, including The Hobbit, with Mr Jackson in the future. "I do not want to make a movie with somebody who is suing me. It will never happen during my watch.""I don't care about Peter Jackson anymore. He wants to have another $100 million or $50 million, whatever he's suing us for," Mr Shaye said.Mr Shaye said he has been offended by the lawsuit brought to his company by Mr Jackson. "He got a quarter of a billion dollars paid to him so far, justifiable, according to contract, completely right, [but then] turns around without wanting to have a discussion with us and sues us and refuses to discuss it unless we just give in to his plan."However Mr Jackson claims that he had been trying to discuss it with New Line, saying: "We attempted to discuss the issues raised with New Line for over a year but the studio was and continues to be completely uncooperative. ... Nobody likes taking legal action, but the studio left us with no alternative."Mr Jackson has said that he has and will continue to have the highest respect and affection for Mr Shaye and has said that he regrets he has taken the lawsuit personally."[Jackson's] either had very poor counsel or is completely misinformed and myopic to think that I care whether I give him [anything]," Mr Shaye said.Mr Shaye has said he is disappointed that many of the stars in The Lord of the Rings trilogy had refused to celebrate New Line's 40th anniversary. Mr Jackson said that the reason for that was probably because Mr Shaye had issues with the cast years before the lawsuit arose.Live music venues in Edinburgh, Scotland are awaiting a review later this year on the 2005 licensing policy, which places limitations on the volume of amplified music in the city. Investigating into how the policy is affecting the Edinburgh music scene, a group of Wikinews writers interviewed venue owners, academics, the City of Edinburgh Council, and local band The Mean Reds to get different perspectives on the issue. Since the clause was introduced by the government of the city of Edinburgh, licensed venues have been prohibited from allowing music to be amplified to the extent it is audible to nearby residential properties. This has affected the live music scene, with several venues discontinuing regular events such as open mic nights, and hosting bands and artists.Currently, the licensing policy allows licensing standards officers to order a venue to cease live music on any particular night, based on a single noise complaint from the public. The volume is not electronically measured to determine if it breaches a decibel volume level. Over roughly the past year there have been 56 separate noise complaints made against 18 venues throughout the city.A petition to amend the clause has garnered over 3,000 signatures, including the support of bar owners, musicians, and members of the general public. On November 17, 2014, the government's Culture and Sport Committee hosted an open forum meeting at Usher Hall. Musicians, venue owners and industry professionals were encouraged to provide their thoughts on how the council could improve live music in the city. Ways to promote live music as a key cultural aspect of Edinburgh were discussed and it was suggested that it could be beneficial to try and replicate the management system of live music of other global cities renowned for their live music scenes. However, the suggestion which prevailed above all others was simply to review the existing licensing policy.Councillor (Cllr) Norma Austin-Hart, Vice Convenor of the Culture and Sport Committee, is responsible for the working group Music is Audible. The group is comprised of local music professionals, and councillors and officials from Edinburgh Council. A document circulated to the Music is Audible group stated the council aims "to achieve a balance between protecting residents and supporting venues".Following standard procedure, when a complaint is made, a Licensing Standards Officer (LSO) is dispatched to investigate the venue and evaluate the level of noise. If deemed to be too loud, the LSO asks the venue to lower the noise level. According to a document provided by the City of Edinburgh Council, "not one single business has lost its license or been closed down because of a breach to the noise condition in Edinburgh."In the Scotland Licensing Policy (2005), Clause 6.2 states, "where the operating plan indicates that music is to be played in a premises, the board will consider the imposition of a condition requiring amplified music from those premises to be inaudible in residential property." According to Cllr Austin-Hart, the high volume of tenement housing in the city centre makes it difficult for music to be inaudible.During the Edinburgh Festival Fringe during the summer, venues are given temporary licences that allow them to operate for the duration of the festival and under the condition that "all amplified music and vocals are controlled to the satisfaction of the Director of Services for Communities", as stated in a document from the council. During the festival, there is an 11 p.m. noise restriction on amplified music, and noise may be measured by Environmental Health staff using sophisticated equipment. Noise is restricted to 65dB(A) from the facades of residential properties; however, complaints from residents still occur. In the document from the council, they note these conditions and limitations for temporary venues would not necessarily be appropriate for permanent licensed premises.In a phone interview, Cllr Austin-Hart expressed her concern about the unsettlement in Edinburgh regarding live music. She referenced the closure of the well-known Picture House, a venue that has provided entertainment for over half a century, and the community's opposition to commercial public bar chain Wetherspoon buying the venue. "[It] is a well-known pub that does not play any form of music", Cllr Austin-Hart said. "[T]hey feel as if it is another blow to Edinburgh's live music". "[We] cannot stop Wetherspoon's from buying this venue; we have no control over this."The venue has operated under different names, including the Caley Palais which hosted bands such as Queen and AC/DC. The Picture House opened in 2008.One of the venues which has been significantly affected by the licensing laws is the Phoenix Bar, on Broughton Street. The bar's owner, Sam Roberts, was induced to cease live music gigs in March, following a number of noise complaints against the venue. As a result, Ms Roberts was inspired to start the aforementioned petition to have Clause 6.2 of the licensing policy reviewed, in an effort to remove the 'inaudibility' statement that is affecting venues and the music scene."I think we not only encourage it, but actively support the Edinburgh music scene," Ms Roberts says of the Phoenix Bar and other venues, "the problem is that it is a dying scene."When Ms Roberts purchased the venue in 2013, she continued the existing 30-year legacy established by the previous owners of hosting live acts. Representative of Edinburgh's colourful music scene, a  diverse range of genres have been hosted at the venue. Ms Roberts described the atmosphere when live music acts perform at her venue as "electric". "The whole community comes together singing, dancing and having a party. Letting their hair down and forgetting their troubles. People go home happy after a brilliant night out. All the staff usually join in; the pub comes alive". However licensing restrictions have seen a majority of the acts shut down due to noise complaints. "We have put on jazz, blues, rock, rockabilly, folk, celtic and pop live acts and have had to close everything down." "Residents in Edinburgh unfortunately know that the Council policy gives them all the rights in the world, and the pubs and clubs none", Ms Roberts clarified.Discussing how inaudibility has affected venues and musicians alike, Ms Roberts stated many pubs have lost profit through the absence of gigs, and trying to soundproof their venue.  "It has put many musicians out of work and it has had an enormous effect on earnings in the pub. [...] Many clubs and bars have been forced to invest in thousands of pounds worth of soundproofing equipment which has nearly bankrupted them, only to find that even the tiniest bit of noise can still force a closure. It is a ridiculously one-sided situation." Ms Roberts feels inaudibility is an unfair clause for venues. "I think it very clearly favours residents in Edinburgh and not business. [...] Nothing is being done to support local business, and closing down all the live music venues in Edinburgh has hurt financially in so many ways. Not only do you lose money, you lose new faces, you lose the respect of the local musicians, and you begin to lose all hope in a 'fair go'."With the petition holding a considerable number of signatures, Ms Roberts states she is still sceptical of any change occurring. "Over three thousand people have signed the petition and still the council is not moving. They have taken action on petitions with far fewer signatures." Ms Roberts also added, "Right now I don't think Edinburgh has much hope of positive change".Ms Roberts seems to have lost all hope for positive change in relation to Edinburgh's music scene, and argues Glasgow is now the regional choice for live music and venues. "[E]veryone in the business knows they have to go to Glasgow for a decent scene. Glasgow City Council get behind their city."Ms Martina Cannon, member of local band The Mean Reds, said a regular 'Open Mic Night' she hosted at The Parlour on Duke Street has ceased after a number of complaints were made against the venue. "It was a shame because it had built up some momentum over the months it had been running". She described financial loss to the venue from cancelling the event, as well as loss to her as organiser of the event.Sneaky Pete's music bar and club, owned by Nick Stewart, is described on its website as "open and busy every night"."Many clubs could be defined as bars that host music, but we really are a music venue that serves drinks", Mr Stewart says.  He sees the live music scene as essential for maintaining nightlife in Edinburgh not only because of the economic benefit but more importantly because of the cultural significance. "Music is one of the important things in life. [...] it's emotionally and intellectually engaging, and it adds to the quality of life that people lead."Sneaky Pete's has not been immune to the inaudibility clause. The business has spent about 20,000 pounds on multiple soundproofing fixes designed to quell complaints from neighboring residents. "The business suffered a great deal in between losing the option to do gigs for fear of complaints, and finishing the soundproofing. As I mentioned, we are a music business that serves drinks, not a bar that also has music, so when we lose shows, we lose a great deal of trade", said Mr Stewart.He believes there is a better way to go about handling complaints and fixing public nuisances. "The local mandatory condition requiring 'amplified music and vocals' to be 'inaudible' should be struck from all licenses. The requirement presupposes that nuisance is caused by music venues, when this may not reasonably be said to be the case. [...] Nuisance is not defined in the Licensing Act nor is it defined in the Public Health Act (Scotland) 2008. However, The Consultation on Guidance to accompany the Statutory Nuisance Provisions of the Public Health etc (Scotland) Act 2008 states that 'There are eight key issues to consider when evaluating whether a nuisance exists[...]'".The eight key factors are impact, locality, time, frequency, duration, convention, importance, and avoidability. Stewart believes it is these factors that should be taken into consideration by LSOs responding to complaints instead of the sole factor of "audibility".He believes multiple steps should be taken before considering revocation of licenses. Firstly, LSOs should determine whether a venue is a nuisance based on the eight factors. Then, the venue should have the opportunity to comply by using methods such as changing the nature of their live performances (e.g. from hard rock to acoustic rock), changing their hours of operation, or soundproofing. If the venue still fails to comply, then a board can review their license with the goal of finding more ways to bring them into compliance as opposed to revoking their license.Nick Stewart has discussed his proposal at length with Music is Audible and said he means to present his proposal to the City of Edinburgh Council.Dr Adam Behr, a music academic and research associate at the University of Edinburgh who has conducted research on the cultural value of live music, says live music significantly contributes to the economic performance of cities. He said studies have shown revenue creation and the provision of employment are significant factors which come about as a result of live music. A 2014 report by UK Music showed the economic value generated by live music in the UK in 2013 was £789 million and provided the equivalent of 21,600 full time jobs.As the music industry is international by nature, Behr says this complicates the way revenue is allocated, "For instance, if an American artist plays a venue owned by a British company at a gig which is promoted by a company that is part British owned but majority owned by, say, Live Nation (a major international entertainment company) — then the flow of revenues might not be as straightforward as it seems [at] first."Despite these complexities, Behr highlighted the broader advantages, "There are, of course, ancillary benefits, especially for big gigs [...] Obviously other local businesses like bars, restaurants and carparks benefit from increased trade", he added.Behr criticised the idea of making music inaudible and called it "unrealistic". He said it could limit what kind of music can be played at venues and could force vendors to spend a large amount of money on equipment that enables them to meet noise cancelling requirements. He also mentioned the consequences this has for grassroots music venues as more 'established' venues within the city would be the only ones able to afford these changes.Alongside the inaudibility dispute has been the number of sites that have been closing for the past number of years. According to Dr Behr, this has brought attention to the issue of retaining live music venues in the city and has caused the council to re-evaluate its music strategy and overall cultural policy.This month, Dr Behr said he is to work on a live music census for Edinburgh's Council which aims to find out what types of music is played, where, and what exactly it brings to the city. This is in an effort to get the Edinburgh city council to see any opportunities it has with live music and the importance of grassroots venues. The census is similar to one conducted in Victoria, Australia in 2012 on the extent of live music in the state and its economic benefit.As for the solution to the inaudibility clause, Behr says the initial step is dialogue, and this has already begun. "Having forum discussion, though, is a start — and an improvement", he said. "There won't be an overnight solution, but work is ongoing to try to find one that can stick in the long term."Beverley Whitrick, Strategic Director of Music Venue Trust, said she is unable to comment on her work with the City of Edinburgh Council or on potential changes to the inaudibility clause in the Licensing Policy. However, she says, "I have been asked to assess the situation and make recommendations in September".According to The Scotsman, the Council is working toward helping Edinburgh's cultural and entertainment scene.  Deputy Council Leader Sandy Howat said views of the entertainment industry needs to change and the Council will no longer consider the scene as a "sideline".Senior members of the Council, The Scotsman reported, aim to review the planning of the city to make culture more of a priority. Howat said, "If you're trying to harness a living community and are creating facilities for people living, working and playing then culture should form part of that."The review of the inaudibility clause in the Licensing Policy is set to be reviewed near the end of 2016 but the concept of bringing it forward to this year is still under discussion.Apple is being accused of anti-gay discrimination after it made available  a free app for the iPhone and iPad that aims to help "homosexual strugglers" through bible teaching. The app was released in mid-February by Exodus International, a Christian ministry that wants to provide a "refuge for people looking for help in their journey out of homosexuality." To date, over 130,000 people have signed a petition requesting Apple to withdraw the app.The app was developed  by Exodus International. The statement on its website says, "Exodus is a Christian ministry that supports those wanting to reconcile their faith with their sexual behavior." It stresses that Apple has given the app a "4+" rating meaning it  contains "no objectionable content." The app gives users "freedom from homosexuality through the power of Jesus", according to the group.Truth Wins Out, a gay rights activist group that campaigns against "ex-gay" ministries  encouraging people to change their sexual orientation,  launched a petition on the website of  change.org requesting that Apple remove the app. It accuses Exodus of using "scare tactics, misinformation, stereotypes and distortions of LGBT life to recruit clients." It says Exodus is attempting to reach young people with a   message that is especially "dangerous" in light of recent suicides of LGBT youth.Wayne Besen, leader of Truth Wins Out, says the message of Exodus International constitutes hate speech.Jeff Buchanan of  Exodus International, said the app is intended to reach those that  share the church's beliefs. "We are reaching those with unwanted same sex attraction," he said. "We were disappointed to see this petition. What we're asking for is fair and equal representation on the Apple platform. We see this as a religious freedom." The issue highlights the problems Apple faces if it becomes involved in policing the content of the countless religious apps in its store, any of which has the potential to be offensive to someone. "It's an issue of tolerance," Buchanan said. "We're simply asking that we have the same opportunity to voice our message as others."Apple is well known for strictly monitoring the content of  the apps offered to users of its gadgets, and excludes sexually explicit material, offensive speech and images, and last November banned an app that entreated users to speak out against gay marriage.Cardinal  Justin Rigali  announced Tuesday that the Archdiocese of Philadelphia  is placing 21   priests on administrative  leave following the release of a grand jury report  that there were credible claims the priests had sexually abused minors. The report, released  February 10, accused the archdiocese of a decades long  cover up.According to the grand jury,  at least 37 priests had continued in their duties around children despite  "substantial evidence of abuse against them".   "We understand that accusations are not proof," the report said, "but we just cannot understand the Archdiocese's apparent absence of any sense of urgency." The grand jury  had seen the files of only  20 priests, it said, and in those cases the archdiocese had dismissed credible allegations of abuse  on trivial grounds, such as a victim failing to remember the year in which the priest served or the exact layout of the rectory.The Cardinal's initial statement in reaction to the  report denied there were any active  priests "who have an admitted or established allegation of sexual abuse of a minor against them."  However, days later, he  hired a former sex crimes prosecutor to review the personnel files of all those named in the grand jury's report.Yesterday's statement placing the 21 priests on leave came more than two weeks after the grand jury released its report. Cardinal Rigali, while apologizing for the behavior of priests abusing minors, said the leaves   were temporary  measures until full  investigations are completed. This mass suspension for sexual abuse is notable in that it is one of the largest in the history  of the Roman Catholic Church in the U.S. The slow response of the Philadelphia Archdiocese to sexual abuse allegations goes against the National Conference of Catholic Bishops' own 2004 Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People which says any priest with creditable allegations should be removed immediately and investigation of the case should follow.Almost a decade ago, allegations of sexual abuse by Philadelphia priests surfaced. A grand jury report issued in 2005 detailed numerous cases of abuse allegations, some decades old,  involving Philadelphia  priests and the  efforts of their superiors to cover up the evidence. The 2011 grand jury found that the panel formed by the archdiocese to handle the complaints in the  2005 report primarily  protected the church rather than the victims.David Clohessy,  the director of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests (SNAP), an advocacy group for survivors and their attorneys, said, "Many victims and Catholics in Philly, are left seriously wondering how effective the bishops' so-called reforms really are, if dozens and dozens of credibly accused priests in one archdiocese alone are kept in ministry for years."Prisoners at Cebu Provincial Detention and Rehabilitation Center prison in the Philippines yesterday repeated their mass dance performance to "Thriller" in tribute to Michael Jackson, who died on Thursday.  The YouTube video of one of their previous performances gained popularity and widespread attention for the prison, and its warden Byron F. Garcia, in April 2007.700 visitors, including local and foreign tourists, watched from above the prison's exercise yard as prisoners performed at 15:00 local time (07:00 UTC).  The prisoners had, coincidentally, performed the routine last Thursday, for tourism officials, mere hours before Jackson's death.  Over Friday, they practiced for nine hours for today's performance.The prisoners themselves expressed their feelings over Jackson's death.  Wenjiel Resane, who played the role of Jackson's girlfriend in the routine, said "I felt sad because we lost our idol.".Alfredo Gaballo, another inmate, said that Jackson "inspired us, so we are all sad about his death".Other Jackson numbers performed by the prisoners included "Ben" "I'll Be There", and "We Are the World".   At the end of the performance the prisoners displayed, on a 1.5-by-3 metre tarpaulin, a picture of Jackson holding a sword with his name written below.The Philippines has welcomed the world's seventh billion baby as the world population reaches 7 billion on Monday, October 31, 2011. The baby girl was born in Jose Fabella Hospital in Manila weighing 5lbs 5oz. She was given a symbolic cake by the United Nations and her birth was also witnessed by the symbolic sixth billion baby who is now 12 years old.The United Nations has declared October 31 as Seven Billion Day when the world's population reaches the seven billion mark.The Philippines is currently the world's 12th largest country in terms of population with over half of the people under the age of 25. According to the UN Population Fund, 10 percent of girls ages 15-19 are already childbearing. The organization has stated that the birth could highlight the country's population related issues.The Vietnam Veterans Memorial is the most visited monument in the Washington, D.C. at close to 4 million visitors a year.  Conceived as a symbol of a never ending reminder of our connection to the veterans of Vietnam, the wall holds strong memories for everyone who visits the wall.There are nephews like David Quatrone of New Jersey who came to find his Green Beret Uncle Ferdinand Quatrone who served six tours of duty.  There was Alan Earls of Missouri who came to find his Aunt's younger brother who perished during the Tet Offensive. There was even 11 year old Gema from Miami, Florida who came to see the wall and connect hereself to her schoolwork; "I wanted to see the wall to understand what they were teaching us.  I want to write an article about it."  Stephen Birks of Fort Long Beach came to find Larry Rabren who dated his sister when Stephen was just 14.Each has a story to tell and to remember this Valentine's Day night.In Toronto last weekend, North American anime and manga convention Anime North was held.  Anime North sprawled across multiple venues, including the Toronto Congress Centre, as a fan-run celebration of Japanese pop culture. The event ran from May 25 to 27.  Wikinews's Nicholas Moreau was in attendance to photograph the event.Montrealer "Aileen Cosplay" was wearing an outfit of Rapunzel from the Disney  animated film Tangled, when Wikinews photographed her.Wikinews talked with her after the event, learning that she was one of the "Estrada Sisters", who have been dressing up as pop culture characters for roughly a decade. "Cosplay is something we do together as sisters, as well as with our close friends. It's a hobby and passion that we all share and have fun with."The cosplayer explained that the activity "integrates a wide range of interests for us, from makeup, to sewing, to crafting and prop-making.""When deciding on cosplays," she offers, "we consider how attracted we are to the character as they were written, as well as their aesthetic. We tend to stray towards Disney, as we all share a common passion for the magic that it brings to its audience, and we love having the opportunity to bring that magic to life every time we put on a costume."Binrand Cosplay tells Wikinews that for her, cosplay "is a huge creative outlet whether that's sewing, crafting, armour building, styling wigs, new makeup challenges etc. I love that it gives me creative freedom and that the end result I can share with hundreds of people that have a love and passion for the same character or series that I am cosplaying from." The icy effect on Shyvana from League of Legends gave her reason to work with Transpa Art, a product from a company called Worbla.She noted that the activity also allows her to "meet new friends that are just excited about something" as she is.She chooses characters she's become attached to, as her outfit. "Often it's a combination of similar personality as my own, a character that has gone through similar struggles as myself, I like the look, and that they just plain badass! I also like a challenge. Having been doing cosplay for as long as I have I like to switch things up and learn something new every year."																																																												Additional cosplayProving that Mardi Gras isn't confined to New Orleans, thousands of people came to chilly Arlington, Virginia for the annual Mardi Gras Parade Tuesday night.  This high energy, low key celebration of Fat Tuesday brought out families and friends to this suburb of Washington, D.C.  Although there was a heavy police presence throughout the evening, revelers were after the beads and other throws from the low tech floats.  According to Arlington Police there were very few problems throughout the entire evening.A photographer has died after being run over by a car in Los Angeles, California, United States. The man, who was attempting to photograph the vehicle of Canadian pop singer Justin Bieber, has not been formally identified by police but was named as Chris Guerra by local media.At approximately 17:45 PST Tuesday the driver of Bieber's white Ferrari car was pulled over by police for a speeding offence on Interstate 405, near to Getty Center Drive. Reports indicate Guerra — a freelance photojournalist — had been pursuing this vehicle throughout the day, based on the incorrect assumption that Bieber was in the vehicle when it was actually rapper Lil Twist driving the car with another passenger onboard. Entertainment news website TMZ understands the photographer stopped his vehicle on the other side of Sepulveda Boulevard and attempted to take pictures of the police stop before crossing the road and continuing, prompting the California Highway Patrol police officer conducting the traffic stop to order him back across, twice. When he attempted to walk back across, he was struck by an oncoming vehicle.The photographer was transported to Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, where he subsequently died. He was reportedly aged in his 20s. In a statement, Bieber said "[w]hile I was not present nor directly involved with this tragic accident, my thoughts and prayers are with the family of the victim." According to police, the driver of the vehicle that hit the photographer is unlikely to face criminal charges.The incident has prompted Bieber to call for changes to laws surrounding the way in which members of the press work. "Hopefully this tragedy will finally inspire meaningful legislation and whatever other necessary steps to protect the lives and safety of celebrities, police officers, innocent public bystanders, and the photographers themselves", he said.Wikinews reported on May 17 that several weeks earlier British police had picked up an unidentified man wandering the streets of Sheerness, United Kingdom. The man who has thus far refused to talk, has demonstrated himself to be an excellent pianist—earning him the nickname Piano Man.Since publication of our first article, we have been contacted by a fellow wiki contributor informing us that the Piano Man may be a British actor named Geoffrey Betts. Although our contact strongly believed he knew the identity of the man and contacted the relevant authorities in regard to his belief, this has turned out to be false. While Betts was not reachable by phone or e-mail, his website was recently updated to the effect that he is not the man in question. In the meantime, the search for the identity has been narrowed down to three leads by authorities.The original interview between Wikinews editor CGorman and contributor Steve Magruder is reproduced below.The man known as just the 'Piano Man' has left the hospital where he was staying and has returned home to his native Germany. He has finally spoken after four months of silence.It turns out, according to British tabloid The Daily Mirror, that the man, aged 20, was from Germany but after losing his job in Paris, traveled to the UK through the Channel Tunnel. He was going to commit suicide when he was found by police on a Kent beach. He refused to talk to authorities due to his distressed state. It appears that he had formerly worked with mental patients and copied what he saw from them to fool the doctors. Also according to the Mirror, the man was only able to tap the same piano key repeatedly, but hospital officials refute this. However, all of this information came from a single, unidentified source.The man was found soaking wet on a beach in Kent in an expensive-looking suit from which all the labels had been removed. Some people believed he was suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder or that he was an autistic savant. Some also believed he was a Canadian eccentric, a French busker, a student from Norway, or Czech concert pianist Tomáš Strnad.Four paintings were stolen in broad daylight from a branch of the Pinacoteca Museum located in São Paulo, Brazil. In this, the second high-scale art robbery in São Paulo  in less then a year, the three armed robbers overpowered three unarmed museum guards before walking out with the paintings, frames and all, in two large bags.The combined value of the four paintings has been put between US$568,400 and $612,000. The paintings were Pablo Picasso's "The Painter and the Model" and "Minotaur, Drinker and Women", both insured at $4,200, and two paintings by Emiliano Di Cavalcanti, "Women at the Window" insured at $500,000 and "Couple" insured at $60,000. All works stolen were owned by the Jose and Paulina Nemirovsky Foundation.This comes just several months after a December 20 robbery in São Paulo in which another Picasso painting, as well as a painting by Candido Portinari, were stolen after-hours. The paintings were recovered January 8.Pablo Picasso's famous portrait of his lover has been auctioned for $95.2 million at Sotheby's in New York on Wednesday. 1941 masterpiece "Dora Maar with cat/ Dora Maar au chat" was sold to an anonymous buyer. This is the second highest amount ever paid in an auction. The highest amount paid so far for a painting is $104 million ("Boy with a pipe/Garcon a la pipe" by Picasso, 1905), which was auctioned in 2004. Vincent Van Gogh's "Portrait with Dr. Gachet" was sold at $82.5 million.Dora Maar, herself an artist, believed to have helped Picasso in the execution of the famous masterpiece "Guernica," which depicted the horror of Spanish civil war. They had a relationship that lasted for a decade.Picasso was born in Malaga, Spain on 25 October 1881. He died at the age of 92 in 1973.Christians from many countries flocked to Jerusalem on Friday, to follow the traditional Via Dolorosa, or Way of Sorrows, marking the various spots in the city at which Jesus stopped, according to Christian tradition, on the way to his crucifixion on the hill of Calvary. Some of the visitors carried large crosses, and others had crowns of thorns on their head.Visitors from far-flung locales including Ireland, the Philippines, and the United States have been coming in numbers much higher than in previous years, when regular occurrences of violence caused travel to Israel to plummet."With the ceasefire and Arafat’s successor, there’s even less reason to worry," said 38-year-old Connon McCabe, from Dublin, Ireland."In the last 15 days, we’ve seen hundreds more visitors," said Muslim shopkeeper Hashim Melki. "I like having people in my shop again after four years," Melki said.Israeli police estimated attendance at the event was about 3,500.Today, it was announced that Syd Barrett, the founding member of British rock band Pink Floyd died from a complication with diabetes. According to a Pink Floyd spokeswoman, he died days earlier (July 7) but the announcement was withheld. "He died peacefully at home. There will be a private family funeral in the next few days," said his brother Alan Barrett. "The band are naturally very upset and sad to learn of Syd Barrett’s death. Syd was the guiding light of the early band line-up and leaves a legacy which continues to inspire," noted a statement issued by Pink Floyd.During 1967-1968, Syd Barrett was considered to be the main member and songwriter of Pink Floyd. However, due to mental illness, he was forced to leave the band after recording only one album, The Piper at the Gates of Dawn. Barrett had since been a recluse. Pink Floyd recorded Wish You Were Here as a tribute following Barrett's leave. The album features Shine On You Crazy Diamond, with lyrics explicitly about Barrett's rise to fame and subsequent dissolution.A private security guard attached to Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie pulled out his revolver to threaten a lensman in Pune, India. The Associated Press photographer was also roughed up by the guard, Sunil Singh, who works for Tops Securities. Defamer.com, a tabloid in Los Angeles, however, says that two guards were involved in the attack. The incident occurred at the Sindh Society area in the suburb of Aundh. A spokesperson for Tops confirmed the incident, although he claimed the weapon had been pulled out in "self-defence". The accosted person himself chose to remain anonymous and refused to comment on the issue. Freelance photographer Rishikesh Puranik, who witnessed the scene, said that the AP lensman had approached Angelina Jolie with a request for a photo-shoot while she was on the sets. Jolie and her partner Brad Pitt are in India to shoot for A Mighty Heart, a film based on Daniel Pearl, a journalist who was killed in 2002 while in Karachi, Pakistan.Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie are to let Getty Images sell photos of their new baby Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt - and have asked the proceeds go to charity."While we celebrate the joy of the birth of our daughter, we recognize that 2 million babies born every year in the developing world die on the first day of their lives. These children can be saved, but only if governments around the world make it a priority," the couple said, in a joint statement.It is thought the rights to the photographs will be bought for upwards $5 million and that the money will go to a charity for African children. Getty images will arrange a private photo shoot for the baby. "We are honored that the Jolie-Pitt family has recognized our long-term commitment to these critical issues, as well as our ability to use the power of imagery to make a difference in the lives of many," said Jonathan Klein, Getty's CEO and cofounder.Born in a hospital in Namibia on May 27 paparazzi were immediately interested in a snapshot of the Hollywood stars' child who weighed in at 7lbs. The baby's mother Angelina Jolie, 30, an Oscar winning actress, is a goodwill ambassador for U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. She has two adopted children Maddox, 4, and Zahara, aged 15 months.When Pittsburgh lyricist Bill Medica and musician JC Carter saw the influx of furries for the first Anthrocon in their city, they were mystified. But as they observed Anthrocon 2006, their thoughts on furries changed."They're not afraid to be themselves," said Carter. "When they left, the magic left.""They were such a force," added Medica.Inspired by their experience, they decided to write a play entitled Furry Tales. It is the story of four friends: BlueWolf22, MisoKitty2, HuggyBunny and Gorillanator. They met online and agree to meet at a furry convention. As it turns out, BlueWolf22 is an imposter, sent by an online magazine called "everythingawful.com" (an obvious play on Something Awful, a site frowned on by the sub-culture for their coverage) in an effort to get some steamy content on the debauchery that supposedly permeates the furry fandom. However, BlueWolf's opinions change, and he discovers he is a peer to his new furry friends.Wikipedia describes furry fandom as "a fandom distinguished by its enjoyment of anthropomorphic, often humanoid, animal characters. Examples of anthropomorphism in the furry fandom include the attribution of human intelligence, facial expressions, and sometimes anatomy, speech, bipedalism, and the wearing of clothes."The world's largest furry convention, Anthrocon takes place in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania each July. Its focus is on furries: fictional anthropomorphized animal characters in art and literature.The first staged reading of Furry Tales will occur on July 5, 2007, on the first day of festivities for Anthrocon 2007, at the CLO Cabaret. Medica and Carter planned it for July 5 in the hopes that furries attending Anthrocon will provide input for improving the final product. The Chairman of Anthrocon Dr. Samuel Conway has been invited to the reading, and he has confirmed plans to attend.Tickets may be reserved online for $15 each plus a service charge of at least $7.50 from Pittsburgh Cultural District.In related news, Anthrocon has selected local no-kill animal shelter Animal Friends as its 2007 charity. The shelter will benefit from the proceeds of Anthrocon's annual charity auction, which raised $5,845 for the Western Pennsylvania National Wild Animal Orphanage last year (the charity's total revenue was $8,400). Representatives of the charity will also be available as in the dealers room.Jerome Bettis, who announced his retirement from the Pittsburgh Steelers on the night they won the Super Bowl XL in Detroit, has been tapped as a studio analyst at NBC.  His first game in the broadcast booth will come September 7th, on the same night the Steelers will receive their Super Bowl rings. "It will be the proudest night of my life," Bettis said. "I will finally get my ring and I will start my new career in television in front of all the Steelers fans."Bettis, a Notre Dame graduate, began his career in 1993 with the Los Angeles Rams, but was picked up by the Steelers in 1996 and became the NFL's 5th leading rusher in Pittsburgh.On Saturday, William Luckey, also known as Bud Luckey, US animator who designed Pixar Animation Studios' Toy Story character Sheriff Woody, died in a hospital in Newton, Connecticut; his son Andy Luckey announced the death via a Facebook post. Bud Luckey was 83 years old.Luckey was born in Billings, Montana on July 28, 1934. He was known for animating counting songs for Sesame Street in collaboration with music of Turk Murphy and lyrics by Donald Hadley. In 1992, Luckey joined Pixar. "He was the fifth animator hired here at Pixar", Pixar's animating chief John Lasseter once noted.He designed Sheriff Woody for Pixar's first feature film  Toy Story which was released in 1995. He also voiced Rick Dicker in Pixar's 2004 movie The Incredibles and Chuckles the Clown in 2010's Toy Story 3. Luckey had also designed characters for other Pixar movies including A Bug's Life, Monsters, Inc. and Cars. He also voiced Eeyore, the donkey, in 2011's Disney movie Winnie the Pooh.In 2004, Bud Luckey was nominated for an Academy Award for Boundin', a short film he wrote, directed, narrated, and sang. He received the Annie Award for that five-minute short. Luckey retired as an animator in 2008, but kept working as a voice artist until 2014.Pixar's official Twitter handle tweeted: "Thank you, Bud Luckey, to infinity and beyond. (July 28, 1934 – February 24, 2018)". Lee Unkrich, director of Toy Story 3 and Coco, tweeted, "So sad to hear that Bud Luckey passed away today. He voiced Chuckles in Toy Story 3, but that was the least of his many amazing accomplishments. A tweet is not sufficient to sing his praises."A military plane carrying 92 people crashed into the Black Sea two minutes after departing Sochi, Russia yesterday. The Tupolev Tu-154 was heading to Syria and was carrying 64 members of the Alexandrov Ensemble, Russia's military choir. Nobody is thought to have survived. At least eleven bodies have been recovered and 100 divers deployed on-scene. President Vladimir Putin has ordered a probe; investigators have yet to rule out sabotage.The 84 passengers and eight crew were headed to Hmeymim Air Base to entertain Russian forces. Musicians, dancers, and journalists are among the dead. Choir leader Valery Khalilov and philanthropist doctor Yelizaveta Glinka, who was taking donated medical supplies to Syria, were on board. Nine journalists representing three national TV stations were also passengers.Glinka served as a human rights advisor to Putin. The journalists were from official broadcasters NTV, First Channel, and Zvezda.An official statement said Putin sent "deepest condolences to the families and friends of those killed in the crash". He has tasked Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev with organising an investigatory commission. The defence ministry said a military commission was in Sochi to investigate. "Four ships, five helicopters and a drone are working in the area," a defence spokesperson said.The Tu-154 is a Soviet-era three-engined jet. It crashed after leaving Sochi International Airport at 5.40am local time. Debris has been found around 1.5km (a mile) offshore in water about 50–70m (160–230 feet) deep. Sochi was a stopoff for the plane, which began its journey in Moscow.Russian media broadcast what was claimed to be an air traffic control recording showing no sign of impending disaster; the flight crew speak calmly, then suddenly stop responding. Weather was good at the time.Putin has declared today a day of national mourning. Syrian President Bashar al-Assad sent condolences to him. "The plane had dear friends who had come to join us and the people of Aleppo in their joy with victory and Christmas feasts", he said. The Syrian President also told Putin "our sorrows and joys are one" and the two nations are united to "fight to lay the foundations of stability, security and peace".London - Wembley Stadium today hosted the second day of the first Play.com Live multimedia exposition, a large event encompassing many large gaming retailers showcasing their latest games across a wide variety of platforms, as well as live music and entertainment from a wide variety of performers and personalities. Wikinews attended the event today, and reported live from inside Wembley Stadium.A researcher at the University of Oxford has found a saucy poem attributed to John Milton, the 17th-century poet who wrote Paradise Lost and other religious verse.  "An Extempore Upon a Faggot", discovered in an 18th-century anthology of poetry, is not thought by modern scholars to be by Milton, however, and may in fact have been written by one of his rivals in an attempt to disgrace him.The poem was found by Dr Jennifer Batt, who said that it "is so out of tune with the rest of his work, that if the attribution is correct, it would prompt a major revision of our ideas about Milton."  She discovered the rude verse in the Harding Collection of poetry anthologies held by the Bodleian Library, the main university library at Oxford. "To see the name of John Milton, the great religious and political polemicist, attached to such a bawdy epigram, is extremely surprising to say the least", she added. The book in question, the Oxford and Cambridge Miscellany from 1708 (over 30 years after Milton's death), was described by another Oxford academic, Dr Abigail Williams, as "a set of poems written by witty young men about town for witty young men about town". Milton wrote in blank verse rather than using rhyme and used differing poetic rhythms, whereas the handwritten poem uses a simple pattern of rhyming couplets as it contrasts the sexual behaviour of young women and more experienced women by comparing them to green wood and dry wood upon a fire.Milton (1608–1674) wrote many influential religious poems, including Paradise Lost, which is described by the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography as "widely and rightly regarded as the supreme poetic achievement in the English language, fit to sit alongside the poems of Homer, Virgil, and Dante."  It tells the story of the fall from grace of Adam and Eve in an epic theological poem.  He followed it with Paradise Regained, depicting the temptations of Jesus in the wilderness.  Bawdy poetry is not thought by modern academics to be in keeping with Milton's style, with Batt suggesting that it is likely that his name was added to the poem "to bring scandal upon [him], perhaps by a jealous contemporary."  She suggests that the culprit might have been Sir John Suckling, a poet who was a supporter of the monarchy, in contrast to the Republican Milton.The University of Oxford is currently digitising the songbooks and anthologies of the Harding Collection, said to be the world's largest such collection, as part of a project to allow online access. It is named after Walter Harding, a British musician who collected music and poetry in Chicago.  The poem had been read before, but without anyone noticing Milton's name at the bottom.  Dr Williams, the project's leader, expressed her doubts as to the authenticity of the attribution, commenting that "[y]ou could become very rich and famous – well, famous, anyway – if you could prove the rhyme was really by Milton. I am pretty certain it is not."Rikki Rockett, drummer for United States glam metal band Poison, was temporarily arrested today on an outstanding rape warrant after exiting a plane arriving at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), California from New Zealand.The arrest stems from an alleged incident on September 23, 2007, while Rockett — real name Richard Ream — was staying at the Silver Star Hotel & Casino in Mississippi. A female guest alleges Rockett raped her in his hotel room. Several days after the attack is claimed to have occurred, she filed a report with the Neshoba County Sheriff's department. They determined there were sufficient grounds to arrest him and issued a warrant.Los Angeles Police Department arrested him on his arrival at LAX and booked him into Los Angeles County Jail but the 46-year-old was released because Mississippi authorities decided not to extradite him while official charges from the Neshoba County District Attorney are pending.Rockett had been in New Zealand to play at Wellington's Rock2Wgtn festival with the rest of Poison, who opened day two and were joined by Whitesnake and Ozzy Osbourne. The previous day featured Lordi, Alice Cooper and KISS.Singer Bret Michaels has remained in a critical condition after suffering a brain haemorrhage. The Poison singer  was rushed to a Los Angeles hospital on Friday with complaints of a severe headache.His publicist released a statement saying that "Bret is a fighter and we are hopeful that once all is complete, the slurred speech, blurred vision and dizziness etc will be eliminated and all functions will return to normal." He added that Michaels is conscious. Michaels reached fame in the 1980s along with the glam rock band Poison. The group released such songs as “Every Rose Has Its Thorn” and “Talk Dirty to Me”. They are still recording and releasing music after 25 years. Michaels also recently recorded a song with teen singer Miley Cyrus. The singer can currently be seen on US television on reality show The Celebrity Apprentice. The show which was recorded six months ago, is only half way through the current series. Michaels is one of the favourites to win. Fellow celebrities have sent messages to Michaels, British music manager Sharon Osborne said "I'm thinking of you and wishing you a speedy recovery", while former Professional wrestler Maria Kanellis asked fans to keep Michaels in their prayers. The show’s host Donald Trump also sent Michaels his well wishes.United States glam metal band Poison is suing Capitol Records and EMI Music Marketing over an alleged breach of contract. Poison claim the two companies have underpaid them royalties for years.The band claims Capitol miscategorized various record sales and miscalculated every possible expense since the 1980s. They say when attempting to check company records they received no co-operation and are now asking a judge to order the firms to reveal their records so the band can determine how much they are owed.Capitol and EMI have refused to comment.The Supreme Court in Lausanne, Switzerland has ruled that Texas hold 'em poker is a game of luck, rather than a game of skill.  As a result, only casinos can host poker tournaments in Switzerland.  Private games with friends, even where money is at stake, are still permitted under the ruling.Poker tournaments had been growing in popularity in the country, with many events held in hotels and bars.  Such venues do not have to pay the 50% tax on profits levied on licensed casinos, nor comply with regulations combating money laundering and gambling addiction.  Poker is now categorised alongside roulette and slot machines, which as games of luck can only be played inside casinos.  Mathematics, strategy, and bluffing were less important in determining the result than chance, said the judges, overturning a lower court ruling to the opposite effect, and disagreeing with the stance of the country's Federal Gaming Commission.  Before the ruling, it had been estimated by the Swiss Federation of Casinos that there were about 100 unlicensed poker tournaments every weekend. A Swiss poker website, SwissPokerTour.ch, has described the result as "a black day for all amateur poker players in Switzerland."The Polish Olympic Committee (PKOL) announced today the list of 258 sportsmen drafted to represent Poland at the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing, China. The number of olympians may increase by 10, as the Committee has given a number of athletes a final chance to qualify, including Lidia Chojecka and  Małgorzata Trybańska. There are 101 women and 157 men on the team.The 28-year-old canoer Marek Twardowski has been chosen for the national flag bearer. "There was, of course, a discussion. We rejected the candidacy of Otylia Jędrzejczak, because she starts her Olympics on August 9, the same situation was with Leszek Blanik. We needed a titled sportsman for whom the function of flag bearer will not interrupt preparations. Marek starts on August 19, he won 20 World Championships and European Championships medals and he's a cool guy", said Kajetan Broniewski, the chief of the Polish Olympic Mission. The Committee spent over PLN186 million (almost US$90 million) on preparations for the Olympics in last four years, with PLN73 million of it spent this year alone. "With such a big team, we should improve the results from Athens and win over 10 medals", said the PKOL president Piotr Nurowski.When asked about the protests over China's violation of human rights in Tibet, Nurowski said: "Demonstrating one's political views at the venues as well as in the Olympic Village is forbidden. It is a violation of the Olympic Oath. It means that the IOC may even expel one from the Village and take away the medals.  I have talked a lot about it with our sportsmen. They have answered that politics is not interesting for them in Beijing.  They are concentrating on sports." It will be the third biggest Polish Olympic team in history; there were more sportsmen at the Olympics in 1972 (Munich, 288) and 1980 (Moscow, 321). Fours years ago the team numbered 202 sportsmen. The players on the men's and women's volleyball teams, as well as the men's handball team are still not known. The teams' coaches Raul Lozano, Marco Bonitta and Bogdan Wenta have until July 19 to announce their rosters. Overall, the team, including the medical staff, coaches, psychologists and others, will number over 400 people.The Polish national football team has defeated the Finnish equivalent in a friendly football match in Paphos, Cyprus.The match was held as part of a four-nation, five-day tournament in front of 600 people, mostly supporters of Poland. The latter side was largely experimental as coach Leo Beenhakker is using the tournament, in which Poland will play two matches, to test new players. “This was a fine test,” he commented after the match.The only goal was scored by Adam Kokoszka after 43 minutes. In the 65th minute Kokoszka got another shot clear of Finland goalkeeper Henri Sillanpaa but it was cleared.As well as Finland and Poland the tournament features Greece and the Czech Republic. Finland are the only country of these not to be going to Euro 2008; Poland and the Czech Republic have qualified, and Greece is the current champion.Poland yesterday announced the purchase of the Czartoryski art collection for about €100million (US$105m; £85m). It is worth an estimated €2billion.Amongst the roughly 86,000 artworks is Lady with an Ermine by Leonardo da Vinci. Lady with an Ermine alone is thought to be worth more than the government paid for the full collection; it is insured, the government said, for about €330m. Also included are around 250,000 books and other texts.Adam Karol Czartoryski, representing his family, as head of the Czartoryski Foundation owning the collection, negotiated the sale with the Ministry of Culture. Czartoryski "felt like making a donation" and was entitled to, he said. The Czartoryski Foundation's board resigned in protest. The board said they were not consulted and disapproved of the price.The current Law and Justice government was reported in national press as prepared to part with up to a billion zloty (US$235 million) to acquire the foundation. Culture Minister Piotr Glinski said "It is a fraction of the market price of the collection".Law and Justice, who gained power a year ago, had expressed interest in acquiring the works, housed in Krakow and on public display. The government is running a nationalisation programme for cultural items and major companies. Purchasing the Czartoryski collection required a state budget amendment and, according to the Ministry of Culture, months of talks. The move "ensures the right of the Polish nation to the collection," said Glinski.The collection was assembled over the course of more than 200 years. It also features Landscape with the Good Samaritan by Rembrandt and works by French artist Pierre-Auguste Renoir. Lady with an Ermine, from 1490, is one of four known da Vinci portraits of women. Stolen during Nazi rule, it was recovered and returned. It features Cecilia Gallerani, mistress to Duke of Milan Ludovico 'The White Ermine' Sforza. Sforza's nickname explains the titular creature painted in Gallerani's arms, which was added to the painting by da Vinci; an earlier, painted-over version does not have it.The Polish team of Edyta Herbuś and Marcin Mroczek have won the Eurovision Dance Contest 2008. The pair performed a version of the Rumba, Cha-Cha and Jazz Dance. The pair were given 20 points by the jury and 134 points from the voting public with a total of 154. They were given the maximum 12 points by Austria, Denmark, Ireland, Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Russia came second with 121 points and Ukraine with 119 points.This years contest was held at the Scottish Exhibition and Conference Centre in 	Glasgow, Scotland. This is only the second Eurovision Dance Contest. The first contest was held at the BBC Television Centre, London. Three countries withdrew from the competition Germany, Spain and Switzerland. Azerbaijan debuted and came in 5th.Two weeks after the celebrity  polar bear Knut died unexpectedly, an autopsy report  shows that the immediate cause of death was drowning. It also reveals Knut was suffering from a brain disorder resulting in a seizure that led to his fall into the  water.The four-year-old polar bear had been living at the at the Berlin zoo since birth and was a popular attraction. Just before his death  he  turned around in circles  in front of hundreds of zoo visitors, and then fell into the pool  in his enclosure  and  died. The final autopsy report determined  that a large amount of water was found in his lungs and  the immediate cause of his death was drowning, said  Achim Gruber, animal  pathologist of  Berlin’s Free University, at a news conference.  The autopsy also  showed  that  Knut was suffering from  encephalitis, a  swelling and inflammation of the brain that can cause seizures, and  is the likely explanation for his collapse into the pool, according to experts who studied the report. Knut's encephalitis was the result of an undetermined infection that was probably caused by a virus, said Claudia Szentiks, lead pathologist of Knut's autopsy. Ruled out during the autopsy were causes of encephalitis such as rabies or a prion disease. Szentiks said, "Given the massive scale of the inflammation, Knut would probably have died sooner or later."The zoo’s  original plan to stuff Knut  for display is being vigorously opposed by his fans, who have organized a "Stop the Stuffing of Knut" protest scheduled  for Saturday.Police in Denmark have shot dead a man they believe was responsible for two gun attacks that killed two people in Copenhagen yesterday. Police had kept a property in the Nørrebro district of the city under surveillance. When the man returned to the property, they confronted him and shot him in the ensuing fire fight.Jorgen Skov, a police investigator, said "nothing at this point suggests there were other perpetrators" than the man shot today. Yesterday, he was allegedly involved in two shooting incidents in the city.The first shooting took place in a café at the Krudttoenden cultural center which was hosting a discussion about blasphemy and free speech, relating to the attacks on the Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris. Swedish artist Lars Vilks, who organised the meeting, was subjected to death threats following publication of a number of drawings of the Prophet Muhammad. Vilks' website says the event was timed to coincide with the fatwa placed on the British novelist Salman Rushdie. The event also hosted Inna Shevchenko, an activist with the feminist protest group FEMEN.François Zimeray, France's ambassador to Denmark, attended the event.  He told reporters: "They shot from the outside [and] had the same intention as Charlie Hebdo, only they didn't manage to get in[...] Intuitively I would say there were at least 50 gunshots, and the police here are saying 200. Bullets went through the doors and everyone threw themselves to the floor."The second attack yesterday took place outside a synagogue in the Krystalgade area of Copenhagen. The attacker shot and killed, according to the local Jewish community, Dan Uzan, a 37-year-old Jewish man who was volunteering as a security guard outside the synagogue while a bat mitzvah service was held inside.Following the attacks, police released a description and photo of the suspect: he was depicted wearing a black puffer jacket, carrying a black bag, wearing a maroon balaclava, aged between 25 and 30 with a black automatic weapon. The chief police inspector Torben Molgaard Jensen told reporters: "We assume that it's the same culprit behind both incidents."Helle Thorning-Schmidt, the Danish Prime Minister, said yesterday: "We feel certain now that it's a politically motivated attack, and thereby it is a terrorist attack."Lars Vilks in a statement to Associated Press said he believed the first attack was directed at him: "What other motive could there be? It's possible it was inspired by Charlie Hebdo".World leaders have condemned the shooting. French President François Hollande described the attacks as "deplorable" and promised the Danish "full solidarity of France in this trial". British Prime Minister David Cameron tweeted: "I condemn the shootings in Copenhagen. Free speech must always be protected." British Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said: "Sickened by shooting at free speech event in Copenhagen. My thoughts are with the people of the city and country."Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said the Australian government "condemns the shooting at a free speech event in Copenhagen overnight" and "[t]he thoughts of all Australians are with the people of Denmark and, in particular, the family of the victim who lost his life and the police officers injured in this brutal act of terror. As with the Charlie Hebdo atrocity in Paris, the Copenhagen attack is an affront to one of our most fundamental values — freedom of speech. We stand with the people and government of Denmark in confronting this cynical attempt to undermine that fundamental right."Edmonton police have closed down an Edmonton, Alberta, Canada pizza restaurant for a single day for delivering alcoholic beverages despite not being licensed to do so. It is unclear when this incident occurred, but the CBC reported that it occurred "recently", after police searched the shop in September.The alcohol was being delivered in paper bags and pizza boxes, with the same delivery vehicles used to deliver pizza. Curtis Hoople, a Sergeant in the Edmonton Police Service, says that alcohol was also being sold within the restaurant's premises.It is estimated that the seized alcohol was worth around CAD$4,000, Hoople said.Four of the restaurant's employees were issued a summons, and were accused of violating the Gaming and Liquor Act. Police have not named the restaurant in question.Agata Mróz, who together with Poland's national team won the European women's volleyball championships in 2003 and 2005, died on June 4 in a Wrocław hospital just two weeks after a bone marrow transplant intended to treat her progressing acute myeloid leukemia. She had myelodysplastic syndrome since childhood.Polish fans dubbed the national team on which Mróz played the "Golden Girls", both due to their looks and their successes in international competitions.Her club career had been equally successful, with two Polish and one Spanish championships under her belt.She gave birth to a daughter two months before her death.File:Pacynski.jpgTomasz Pacyński - Polish fantasy and science fiction author - was found dead in his garden by his family on May 30, 2005. The cause of death is presumed to be either heart inflammation or myocardial infarction.Pacyński, born on February 4, 1958, was one of the founders and the main editor of Fahrenheit, the first Polish Internet science fiction fanzine. He published short stories in such magazines as Science Fiction, SFera, and Fantasy, and in Internet fanzines such as Fahrenheit, Esensja, Fantazin and Srebrny Glob. He also wrote articles published in SFera and Science Fiction. He debuted as a fantasy writer with his 2001 novel Sherwood, based on the Robin Hood legend. He published four novels - the Sherwood fantasy trilogy and Wrzesień (September) - a post-apocalyptic political fiction novel, as well as numerous short stories. His humorous stories about Ded Moroz were published in 2005 in Linia ognia (Line of Fire) collection.Pacyński will be buried at the Powązki cemetery in Warsaw on Tuesday, June 7, at 10 a.m.On Sunday, Disney's Zootopia won the Oscars award for the Best Animated Feature Film at the 89th Academy Awards ceremony held at Los Angeles. Pixar's animated short Piper won the Oscar for Best Animated Short Film and Disney's The Jungle Book won for  Visual Effects.Others competing with Zootopia in the category were Kubo and the Two Strings, My Life as a Zucchini, The Red Turtle, and Disney's Moana. This was the first Oscar for directors Byron Howard and Rich Moore who were previously nominated for, respectively, Bolt and Wreck-It Ralph.In the acceptance speech, director Byron Howard said, "About five years ago, almost six now, [...] we got this crazy idea of talking about humanity with talking animals in the hopes that, when the film came out, it would make the world just a slightly better place." The Disney movie addresses several social problems such as racism, sexism, prejudice, stereotyping, and fear. The New York Times said the parental guidance (PG) rated movie was "Funny, smart, thought-provoking — and musical, too."Before announcing the award, Mexican actor Gael Garcia Bernal said, "As a Mexican, as a Latin-American, as a migrant worker, as a human being, I'm against any form of wall that wants to separate us." The movie was released in March, during the 2016 US presidential race.In an interview with Variety, the directors of Zootopia said movies about bias and discrimination haven't been Disney's main focus, but during its production, "Things were not great in the world. [...] It was more like we had our finger on something important right now and we really need to do our best to portray this as honestly as we can. Then with the election and the campaign, the real move towards governing by fear [...] I don't think we could have predicted it any closer with this film."With this win, the Walt Disney Company has won nine out of ten Best Animated Feature Film Oscars in the last decade, with Pixar Animation Studio winning six out of them. Zootopia also won Best Animated Film at the Annie Awards and the Golden Globe Awards.In 1999, Bernard Weber started the New7Wonders foundation, and eight years, 200 candidates and 100 million votes later, seven man-made structures now have something in common - they all hold the title of 'Wonder'. Weber claims he started the foundation to ensure that "everybody can decide what the new seven wonders should be and not some government, not some individuals, not some institutions."Nominated structures had to be built or discovered before the year 2000, and out of the 200 nominations, only twenty-one were left by the early part of last year. Voting had been taking place for six months, but only recently did voting result in server crashes, causing the foundation to encourage text message voting.The results were announced at a ceremony hosted by Hilary Swank, Ben Kingsley and Bollywood star Bipasha Basu in Lisbon, Portugal. Out of the twenty-one, the following seven were announced as the new 'Wonders of the World':Great Wall of China, in northern China. It was created in the 5th century BC to protect the northern borders of the Chinese Empire. The Wall is the world's longest human-made structure, stretching over 6,400 km (4,000 mi).Christ the Redeemer in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. The giant statue of Jesus Christ is 38 m (105 ft) tall and weighs 700 tonnes. The statue is located at the peak of the 700 m (2296 ft) Corcovado mountain, overlooking the city of Rio.Machu Picchu, above the Urubamba Valley, Peru. It is a city created by the Inca Empire, located on a mountain ridge. Machu Picchu was forgotten for centuries by the outside world, however not by the locals. It was brought to international attention by archaeologist Hiram Bingham in 1911.Petra, in Jordan. It is famous for having many giant stone structures carved into the rock. The site was revealed to the Western world by the Swiss explorer Johann Ludwig Burckhardt in 1812, but remained accessible only to Europeans until after World War I.Chichen Itza, on the Yucatán Peninsula, Mexico. It is a large archaeological site originally built by the Maya civilization. Chichen Itza was a major regional center in the northern Maya lowlands. Archaeological data suggest that Chichen Itza's collapse was violent.Taj Mahal, in Agra, India. It is a white marble mausoleum generally considered the finest example of Mughal architecture. Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan commissioned it for his favorite wife, Mumtaz Mahal, and it was constructed between 1632 and 1648.Colosseum, in Rome, Italy. It is a giant amphitheatre located in the centre of the city, and was capable of seating around 50,000 spectators. It was constructed between 70 AD and 80 AD, and used for nearly 500 years for a variety of events.Although the foundation had large amounts of public support, UNESCO, the United Nations cultural program, distanced themselves from the project, saying it had "no link whatsoever" to the project. UNESCO currently keeps tabs on 851 places in its 'World Heritage Sites' program.Left out of the Seven are the Pyramids of Giza, to which a respected Egyptian antiquities expert replied that the pyramids are a "symbol of the genius of the ancient people." The foundation announced that the pyramids would have "honorary status" with the seven. The pyramids were the only remaining of the original Seven Wonders.Weber claims that now that the man-made wonders have been chosen he has a new task: choosing the seven natural wonders of the world. He says he will start his new project immediately.The 22nd Fan Expo Canada took place at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre this weekend, attracting thousands to the event, one of the most popular in North America. Crossing between the genres of science fiction, horror, anime, fantasy and comics, the event sprawled throughout all corners of the facility. Hundreds of vendors offered products new and old, joined by celebrity guests like Stan Lee, Mark Hamill, and Margaret Atwood. Various local fan organizations were there in a charitable capacity, and thousands of fans donned costumes, many of which they themselves created.Atwood, a Booker Prize-winner, was there to launch her graphic novel Angel Catbird, with illustrator Johnnie Christmas. Lee was making his final Canadian convention appearance, part of a larger farewell tour. Hamill's schedule included a panel with Kevin Conroy, the voice of Batman in Batman: The Animated Series, in which the Star Wars lead played the Joker.Ubisoft, Microsoft, and PlayStation VR all had large areas set up for attendees to try their latest games. In the 20-minute PlayStation VR demonstration of Batman: Arkham VR, players are dropped down a secret elevator in Bruce Wayne's manor, to the Bat Cave, to suit up. From there, the demonstration took players to investigate the murder of Nightwing.The Northern Arena Esports Championship ran throughout the weekend, facing off teams of video gamers in a packed hall. Even in early rounds, the event was well attended, with the stands full of gamers, watching the matches with live colour commentary. The finals saw US team Cloud9 and Immortals, from Brazil, face off in Counter-Strike: Global Offensive. Both unbeaten teams going in, the Brazillian team won the championship and $50,000.Gameplay was delayed during the "third map" (third round) of the finals, when one Immortals player was caught with their headset off. After nearly half an hour, the team was deducted a point, leading to a sudden but temporary rush of success by the US team.Pop starlet Kylie Minogue has announced through her management that she has an early stage of breast cancer. The 36-year-old has said she will be going through the treatment in her native Australia. Due to early diagnosis the singer stands a good chance of making a full recovery.Kylie, who had spent the past week in Melbourne, has revealed that due to the cancer the rest of her Showgirl tour of Australia will be postponed and her appearance at this year's Glastonbury festival will be cancelled.The Showgirl tour was due to hit Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth in June. However despite the cancellation, ticket holders are advised to hang on to tickets as new dates may be announced.Well-known pop art figure James Rosenquist died on Friday, his family announced, in his New York City home after a long illness, at the age of 83.Mr Rosenquist leaves behind a legacy of involvement in the pop art movement, playing a pivotal role in the movement's conception in the 1960s. His career as a heyday pop-artist was defined by his billboard painting style which incorporated subject matter from popular culture and the mass media and created large scale artworks.Although his works were rarely politically charged, his best-known work, the 1964/1965 F-111, used a combination of war imagery and everyday influences to protest US militarism in relation to the Vietnam War. It now resides in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art in New York.The 1960s pop art movement was defined by artists like Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein, contemporaries of Mr. Rosenquist. Although part of the same art movement, Rosenquist wrote in his 2009 autobiography, Painting Below Zero: Notes on a Life in Art, that he was less interested in "logos or brand names", and more concerned with creating what he described as "mysterious pictures".The Pope after delivering Angelus Blessing on Sunday has issued a personal statement regarding his remarks last week in Bavaria that angered the Islamic community. He quotes "I am deeply sorry for the reactions in some countries to a few passages of my address at the University of Regensburg, which were considered offensive to the sensibility of Muslims." Senior imams in India have supported the Pope's apology and calls for an end to violent protests. The Pope also clarifies the statement quoting "These in fact were a quotation from a medieval text, which do not in any way express my personal thought." The full apology statement can be read from the BBC's website.In Tuesday's speech the Pope quoted a 14th Century Christian emperor who said the Prophet Muhammad had brought the world only "evil and inhuman" things. The comment created angry protests among the Muslim community. Today, Vatican secretary of state Tarcisio Bertone issued a statement that quotes "The Holy Father is very sorry that some passages of his speech may have sounded offensive to the sensibilities of Muslim believers". Bertone added that the Pope is sorry that his statements had been "badly interpreted".Various street demonstrations have been held in Pakistan, India, Turkey and Gaza in the past days. Moreover, some leading religious leaders and politicians have criticised the remarks. Some rejected the pope's statement, claiming that it did not go far enough (Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood).Today Pope Benedict XVI announced, in a meeting with the Roman clergy at the Basilica of St. John Lateran, that the process for beatification of Pope John Paul II can be started soon. The process of beatification is the first step in the Catholic Church towards the proclamation of santification (canonization) of a person.Usually there is a five year waiting period after the death of a candidate for beatification before the procedures may begin.  Pope Benedict XVI waived this period on May 9.  The only other case where the waiting period has been waived was Mother Teresa, whose beatification was begun in 1998, a year after her death, and completed in 2003.John Paul II can not be styled a saint until he has been both formally beatified and canonized, processes that have no timetables and may take several years.Since the process of beatification should be started in the diocese where the person died, the process should be started by the Cardinal Vicar, Camillo Ruini, who should instruct the process under the competent Court.Pope Benedict XVI concluded a journey to the United Kingdom on Sunday. During the four-day tour, the Pope presided over Mass in Westminster, London, performed the Beatification of Cardinal John Henry Newman in Birmingham, and spoke with UK Prime Minister David Cameron. Speaking about the sex abuse cases which have brought criticism on the  Catholic Church, Benedict XVI described his "deep sorrow" at the "unspeakable crimes" that had caused "shame and humiliation" onto him and his church.As the Pope departed from Birmingham International Airport on Sunday night, he pledged better diplomatic relations between Vatican City and the UK. Cameron said the Pope had "really challenged the whole country to sit up and think, and that can only be a good thing." The Pope thanked the UK for hosting him before departing without his Popemobiles, which are to follow over land.During his last speech in the United Kingdom, the Pope proclaimed: "As I take my leave of you, let me assure you once again of my good wishes and prayers for the peace and prosperity of Great Britain. Thank you very much and God bless you all." He then proceeded to take an aeroplane ride back to Rome.The Roman Catholic Pontiff is visiting the United Kingdom for the first time since 1982, when his predecessor, Pope John Paul II, was in Britain.  The Catholic Church has been preparing an official visit of Benedict XVI for some time, with the visit starting tomorrow.  The initial plans were made last September; the visit was only announced on March 16, 2010 when it was officially confirmed by the Vatican.  The tour extends through Sunday, and includes stops in Edinburgh, Glasgow, London, and Birmingham, at the latter of which the Pope is going to celebrate the Beatification of Cardinal Newman.When Pope Benedict departs from Rome Ciampino Airport at 8:10 am, he will first head to Holyrood Palace, Edinburgh, to meet Queen Elizabeth.  After he has presided over several celebrations in Scotland, including an open-air Mass at Bellahouston Park, he will fly to London.On Friday and Saturday the papal delegation and its leader will remain in the British capital to meet several religious authorities, including the Archbishop of Canterbury, Rowan Williams, leader of the Church of England.  Furthermore Benedict XVI will receive courtesy calls from Prime Minister David Cameron as well as the leader of the Opposition Harriet Harman and other political and institutional personalities.On the last day, Sunday, the Pope will travel by helicopter to Cofton Park, Birmingham, for the Beatification of Cardinal Newman  (1801–1890), a priest in the Church of England who converted to the Roman Catholic Church.  Newman was defined as "man of conscience" by the Pope in his speech for the centenary of Newman’s death, in 1990.The first recent source of conflict between British policies and Vatican positions emerged in February in the form of the Equality Bill, aimed at preventing discrimination against heterosexual, homosexual, and transsexual people.In the same period, the National Secular Society launched an online petition called "Make the Pope Pay". At the deadline of the petition, June 6th, 2010, it counted 12,340 signatures.On April 11th Richard Dawkins, with Christopher Hitchens's support, interviewed by The Sunday Times, said that they were trying to initiate criminal proceedings against the Pope – on the occasion of his visit to UK – over his alleged cover-up of sexual abuse in the Catholic Church.A further incident happened at the end of April 2010 when a British Foreign Office internal memo (attached to an official document which listed brainstormed ideas for the Pope's tour) suggested many sarcastic ideas for Benedict XVI.  This included launching a condom brand marked "Benedict", or, during his visit in UK, inaugurating an abortion clinic, blessing a homosexual couple, or ordaining women as priests.  The Ministry immediately apologized and explained that the document was only brainstorming that didn't represent the political positions of the Foreign Office.  The Vatican answered via Benedict XVI's spokesman the Rev. F. Lombardi who said "[a]s far as the Vatican is concerned, the case is closed.  There never was the slightest doubt about the trip."In the United Kingdom in July, many of the people opposing the Pope's State visit gathered thanks to a new web site named Protest The Pope, which intends to organize protests against the visit. The events suggested and organized by the site include marches, protests, and cultural events.Protest The Pope plans the biggest march for Saturday in London, when the Catholic Pontiff will stay in the capital for his tour. The march will start at 1:30 pm from Hyde Park (Piccadilly side) toward Piccadilly Circus, then to Trafalgar Square, Whitehall and Downing Street.The British Government is expected to spend for public safety and public policy in general more than £12 million (€14 million). £1.5 million (€2.2 million) alone is for the evening at Hyde Park.It has been announced that Pope Benedict XVI will make a three day visit to Benin, Africa. Starting on November 18 next year, it will be his second Papal visit to Africa, the continent where the Roman Catholic Church is growing fastest.An announcement made by The Vatican on Friday says the Pope will deliver guidance for the Church of Africa to several Catholic leaders. The document had been discussed at the synod of African Bishops last year.The pontiff's prior African trip was to Angola and Cameroon last year. That garnered controversy after he said condoms were complicating anti-AIDS efforts. Recently he has accepted their use to be morally justifiable in some circumstances to prevent spread of the disease.So far four visits have been announced for the Pope, with visits to Croatia, Spain, and his homeland of Germany as well as Benin planned next year.John Paul II (Karol Józef Wojtyła) 1920-2005After months of failing health, His Holiness Pope John Paul II passed away today, April 2, at 9:37 p.m. local time (19:37 UTC). He was 84 years old.  An email message to journalists from the spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls from The Vatican confirmed the death at 20:00 UTC.The Pope had a tracheostomy earlier this year to help him breathe, and then lost his ability to speak last week. On Thursday March 31 he developed a urinary tract infection that led to septic shock and cardiovascular collapse.  A nasogastric feeding tube was inserted to help him regain strength.  The Pope elected not to return to Rome's Gemelli hospital, but instead to stay in his own apartments where he was tended to by his personal doctors and Vatican medical staff.The same night, he was administered the Sacrament of Anointing of the Sick also known as the last rites. On Friday April 1, the Vatican said he was having difficulties with both his heart and his kidneys.Italian news agency Agenzia Giornalistica Italia reports the pope's final message was "I am happy, you be happy, too. Let's pray together with joy. I entrust everything to the Virgin Mary with joy".A description of the last moment of the holy father from father Jarek Cielecki, director of the Vatican service news and of the Italian TV catolic Tele Padre Pio, tells us the last moment of life of this great man. "The Holy father died looking at the window, gathered in prayer. As such he was conscious. Just before dying, the Pope raised his right hand in a sign of blessing, as if he was aware of all the people gathered in prayer. Then, as soon as the prayer ended, the Pope did a huge effort, said the word 'Amen' and died."The Vatican has announced that the funeral will take place on Wednesday, April 6 and that the Pope's body will lie in state from Monday, April 4.Pope John Paul II has returned to the Vatican after spending two weeks in Rome's Gemelli Hospital. The 84 year old pontiff had been in hospital recovering from throat surgery after having experienced breathing difficulties brought on by flu.When he arrived back in the Vatican, he addressed a large group of Pilgrims from his tenth floor room. Despite sounding quite hoarse, he managed to speak a few words – first in Polish then in Italian – to the audience below.Pope John Paul II, the most visible global Christian leader and head of the largest Christian denomination, Roman Catholicism, has for the first time been unable to lead traditional Good Friday services in Rome.He appeared to worshippers via a video presentation from the Vatican.The Catholic leader has been diagnosed with pulmonary illness and Parkinson's disease.Catholic services on this day are strictly liturgies of the word with an optional Eucharist, as the Mass cannot be celebrated on Good Friday.Pope Benedict XVI has approved a document that would allow greater use of the Tridentine Mass (also known as the Latin Mass). The Latin Mass was used almost universally by Catholic Churches prior to the Vatican II council in the 1960s which promulgated many different reforms, including options for churches to use vernacular in some parts of the liturgy. Under the current rules, priests must obtain permission from their local bishop to use Tridentine Mass while the new rules will allow priests to make the decision themselves. According to Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos, the move towards widening the use of the Tridentine Mass was done in part to help bring back to the main church body various schismatic groups, such as the Society of St. Pius X that reject Vatican II's reforms. The proposal has met with concern from the liberal end of the Catholic Church who worry that it signals the beginning of a return to pre-Vatican II church policies and theology while Jewish groups have expressed concern over elements of the Tridentine Mass which they see as offensive or possibly worrisome, such as parts which call for the conversion of the Jews.The popular American soap opera The Young and the Restless, currently the reigning Emmy Award-winner for best daytime drama, celebrated 35 years on the air Wednesday. The 35th anniversary also comes after the series, known colloquially as Y&R, marked its 1,000th straight week as the highest-rated soap opera in a daytime slot. In addition to keeping the #1 spot every week since December 1988, Y&R has also been the top-rated soap in the African-American demographic since 1991. A trend-setter since the beginning, Y&R relied on character-driven storytelling, accentuated with understated sexuality from its cast, which at that time was mostly young, in order to bring in teenage and twentysomething viewers who were ignored by soap producers and networks up to that time. These traits immediately set Y&R apart from other soap operas, and other soaps have since mimicked Y&R's formulaic approach to offering something for everyone, especially younger viewers. Since premiering on March 26, 1973, Y&R has become a worldwide cultural institution in its own right, racking up an impressive 100 Emmy Awards between the writers, producers, cast and crew since 1974. The show has aired in over 100 countries, including Australia, New Zealand, France, Germany, Italy, and Turkey, and reaches a worldwide audience of ten million daily. So far-reaching was Y&R's appeal that Romanian gymnast Nadia Comaneci chose the serial's theme song as accompanying music to her floor exercises at the 1976 Summer Olympics. In Australia, where Y&R has aired since 1974, the show was canceled by the original network that aired it in 2007, prompting a widespread fan backlash in that country. It was quickly moved to a pay channel.Over the past 35 years, countless characters, marriages, divorces, births, deaths, and every joy and trauma in between have visited the residents of Genoa City, where Y&R is set. To commemorate the milestone, Mike Halterman from Wikinews interviewed three actresses who have played long-running characters on Y&R, and asked them to share their memories. All three responded to questions about what being on Y&R means to them, what their favorite storylines were, what they perhaps would have wanted to do all over again, and what they'd love to tell their fans directly.Below are portions of all three interviews.Roberto Cipresso, one of Italy's most respected winemakers, has gone into business with Savanna Samson, a New York porn star, whose real name is Natalie Oliveros.The wine world had previously suspected that Cipresso's collaboration with Samson would be little more than a publicity stunt. Such fears evaporated when U.S. wine expert Robert Parker rated their effort at 91, describing it as "an outstanding wine of exceptional complexity and character".Samson's husband, Daniel Oliveros, who introduced her to the winemaker, is a Manhattan wine merchant. The couple met when she was a dancer at Scores, a popular strip club. Savanna Samson's last film earned her the porn industry's highest award for best all-girl sex scene.  Her best-known films are Big Blowout, Fetish Underground and Poke Her.Roberto Cipresso's previous investor was Pope John Paul II.Actress Portia de Rossi of Arrested Development recently had her "first-ever interview with the gay press", namely The Advocate. In the interview, she talks about her sexuality and romance with comedienne and talk show host Ellen DeGeneres.The 32-year-old Australian reveals she recently told her 98-year-old grandmother that she was a lesbian, when visiting back home. Supposedly her grandmother had a change of heart after two minutes, accepting De Rossi's sexuality.DeGeneres and De Rossi met at an awards show in December 2004, and both immediately broke up with their respective partners. In the May issue of Allure magazine, DeGeneres said she hopes that she and De Rossi "are together for the rest of our lives."The interview also reveals she turned down lesbian roles, including one opposite Angelina Jolie in a movie called Gia. De Rossi says she is now fine playing gay characters, but will not do sex-scenes, gay or straight.On why she suddenly feels comfortable on publicly speaking on the topic, "I was thinking, well, the people who need to know I'm gay know, and I'm somehow living by example by continuing on with my career and having a full, rich life, and I am incidentally gay, but it's not a big political platform. I justified it in so many ways."Another probable reason she consented to the interview is its timing, right before the upcoming season debut of Arrested Development.The Portuguese Ministry of Culture suspended today the opening of King Afonso Henriques' tomb. The opening of the tomb would allow investigators to reconstruct a biological profile of the first King of Portugal, who died 821 years ago.This afternoon the Portuguese Institute of Architectural Patrimony (IPPAR) announced its decision to suspend the project for the reconstruction of the biological profile of Afonso I. For which the opening of the tomb at the Santa Cruz Monastery, in Coimbra, was scheduled for today at 5 p.m. local time (1600 Thursday, UTC).The note released by the Institute said that after consulting the "respective internal process it was evident that the adequate and necessary procedures were not fulfilled" which include the "authorization of this institute and of the minister of Culture for the accomplishment of the related exhumation".When contacted by TSF news agency, the responsible of IPPAR Ilísio Summerville explained that they "had consulted the process and verified that neither the current direction of IPPAR, nor the previous one had given authorization for the act [of the opening of the tomb], because there was missing a series of authorizations, between them the authorization of the minister of Culture."The responsible clarified that the investigation will be authorized as soon that "all formalities are fulfilled".The original authorization to open the tomb consists of a letter sent by the regional director of IPPAR, José Maria Tadeu Henriques, on June 23, to Professor Eugénia Cunha, an specialist in Anthropology Biology of the Faculty of Sciences & Technology of the University of Coimbra and responsible for the investigation.The team of investigators, lead by the anthropologist Eugénia Cunha, is composed of another two anthropologists of the University of Coimbra, Ana Carina Marques and Sónia Codinha, by the medic and anthropologist Miguel Botella (University of Granada), by the medic Bertrand Ludes and the geneticist Christine Kayser (University of Strasbourg), and by the historian José Mattoso (New University of Lisbon).By analysing the bones and other remains, like hair and nails, of Portugal's founder, the investigators would be able to determinate his stature, genetic profile, diet and any diseases that he might have had.File:Josesaramago.jpgPortuguese writer José Saramago, winner of the 1998 Nobel Prize for Literature, died today at his home in Lanzarote at 87.As Saramago Foundation reported, "today, June 18, José Saramago has died at 12:30 at his home in Lanzarote, at 87 years old, as the aftermath of a multiorgan failure, after a prolonged illness." They added that "the writer died with his family, passing out quietly and peacefully."Saramago was born in November 16, 1922 in the village of Azinhaga. He was a journalist, writer, designer, editor and translator. He published his first work, Terra do Pecado, in 1947. Some of his most important works are Blindness, The Gospel According to Jesus Christ and Baltasar and Blimunda.His body will be cremated on Sunday in Lisboa.An autopsy performed on Tuesday revealed that the late Boyzone singer Stephen Gately "had died of natural causes".Officials from the Spanish island of Majorca that Stephen had suffered from an accumulation of fluid on the lungs, or as it is known in scientific terms, a pulmonary edema. The 33-year-old singer was found dead on a sofa in the lounge of his apartment. He had been out of the accommodation for the night while he was partying with Andrew Cowles, who was his partner.There was a court hearing held earlier today in Majorca. The hearing only lasted for a short time. The judge had decided that the family of Stephen Gately would be allowed to take his body back to the Republic of Ireland, the country in which Gately grew up and had lived in, by plane. After discovering Stephen's death, the other members of Boyzone took a plane flight to Majorca, so as to comfort Andrew Cowles. They have now flown back to their homes.Tigger costumed character actor Michael J. Fedelem, 31, has been cleared by the Florida state attorney's office. After reviewing tape of an incident where Tigger appears to bop a 15-year-old in the face, the office decided that the allegations were false.Jerry Monaco Sr. and his family, including Jerry Monaco Jr., were visiting the Walt Disney World theme park early this year. The tape of Junior being hit in the face, distributed to the media by Senior, quickly went international, with Junior telling the press that the attack was completely unprovoked.While the short clip the media aired of this scenario would seem to prove his statement, the full-length video shows Junior pulling on the Tigger costume's tail, thus blocking proper air flow. Even earlier in the clip, Senior is heard mocking the character, sarcastically apologising for supposedly sitting on its head.The DA commented to television station Local6 that "The family didn't react like they wanted justice, they reacted like they wanted cash."Jean Erik Redrupp, general manager of Park Operations at Disney-MGM Studios, had phoned to apologise after the incident, but Senior repeatedly demanded Fedelem himself reply."Everybody will come up and apologize to me but Tigger. He won't be a man about it and get out of the costume and come out and apologize to my son. I didn't want VIP treatment. I didn't want an extra day at Disney. I didn't want any of that. I wanted him to apologize and that is the one thing that they won't do."Some reports say that Disney has made no decision on Fedelem's employment status, while the Associated Press claims a "telephone call placed to Disney officials ... early Friday to find out Fedelem's employment status was not immediately returned".Wikinews has contacted Teamster's Union Local 385 for comment; Teamster's represents Fedelem and many of the other costumed character employees.Ezatollah Zarghami, the head of the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB) who is appointed by Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has said, "In the current year, television productions that do not have prayer scenes will not be allowed to air."  Referring to a scene in a television program wherein a murder suspect was shown supplicating, Zarghami stated, "Prayer scenes should not be confined to positive and leading characters, the elderly and the clean-living types."  Consequently, program heroes and villains are expected to pray alike because it is one of the Five Pillars of Islam.  All television stations are interrupted five times everyday to permit praying to be broadcast.  News anchors and reporters are also required to call upon God.Some Iranians watch Western television shows in Iran notwithstanding their being banned.  IRIB itself sometimes airs censored versions of Hollywood movies; however, since Iran and the United States do not have any sort of copyrights relations, companies in either countries do not have any legal recourse.United States President Barack Obama has named the 16 recipients who are to receive the 2009 Presidential Medal of Freedom. The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the highest honour a civilian can receive. The medal is awarded to those who make significant contributions to the security and national interests of United States and the World. British Physicist Stephen Hawking is included on the list. Hawking, who suffers from motor neuron disease, wrote A Brief History of Time. As well as writing science books he is the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at Cambridge University. Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who was one of the leading anti-Apartheid activists in South Africa, joins Hawking on the list. Senator Ted Kennedy who has represented the United States senate for forty six years was also named.   Former football player and U.S congressman Jack Kemp has posthumously been awarded for his encouragement in the development of underserved urban communities.  Also being awarded are African American actor Sidney Poitier and Nobel prize winner Muhammad Yunus. The women being awarded this year include Billie Jean King, the tennis player who defeated Bobby Riggs in the "battle of the sexes", and Mary Robinson who was the first female President of Ireland.  Others include organiser Nancy Goodman Brinker, physician Pedro José Greer, Jr., Reverend Joseph Lowery, author Joe Medicine Crow, and the first openly gay official Harvey Milk.  The first woman to sit on the Supreme Court, Sandra Day O’Connor, is also being awarded.  Actress Chita Rivera and Professor Janet Davison Rowley will also be recognised by President Obama. President Obama released a statement saying "These outstanding men and women represent an incredible diversity of backgrounds.  Their tremendous accomplishments span fields from science to sports, from fine arts to foreign affairs.  Yet they share one overarching trait: Each has been an agent of change.  Each saw an imperfect world and set about improving it, often overcoming great obstacles along the way. Their relentless devotion to breaking down barriers and lifting up their fellow citizens sets a standard to which we all should strive.  It is my great honor to award them the Medal of Freedom."The 16 will be recognised at a ceremony on August 12.Wikinews has learned that George Takei, who played Sulu on the American television show Star Trek, has announced on the radio talk show Coast to Coast AM With George Noory on Monday night that a "press conference" will be held on Thursday July 26 regarding the new Star Trek 11 movie. The movie is planned to be released in December 2008."I understand that there will be a press conference on Thursday, regarding the new Star Trek movie, and major casting announcements will be made then," said Takei.Brad Altman of www.georgetakei.com, has told Wikinews that the conference is scheduled to take place at the San Diego Comic Convention on July 26 from 1:00 p.m. (pacific time) until 3:30 p.m.. The director of the new movie, J. J. Abrams is expected to announce a "few surprises," says a statement posted on the Comic-Con 2007 website.The conference is apparently to put to rest rumors that started to circulate online that Matt Damon was going to star in the new movie as Captain James T. Kirk. Damon later said in an interview with ign.com that he was "too old" to play the role and that it was nothing but an "internet rumor" and that he was not approached by anyone to be in the film.It is rumored that Leonard Nimoy will be cast as Spock, or that Zachary Quinto will play the role. It is also rumored that the movie will be a prequel to the TV show. According to IMDb the movie is going to be "set before 'The Original Series' [when] Kirk and Spock are newly graduated Cadets fresh from Starfleet Academy and are sent on their first space mission."Vivid Entertainment has launched a new website previewing a celebrity sex tape they have obtained staring former American Idol finalist Jessica Sierra.22-year-old Sierra is a resident of Tampa and reached the final of the show's fourth season in 2005. The film she stars in will be released as a full-length DVD entitled Jessica Sierra Hardcore. The tape shows her having sex with a man thought to be Sierra's boyfriend.Steven Hirsch, co-chairman of Vivid, who are also responsible for a recent release featuring Kim Kardashian said in a statement, "This title contains the most explicit sex we've ever seen in a celebrity video. Jessica clearly has more talent than just singing."Vivid spokesperson Jackie Markham has said the footage was created earlier this year and was purchased by the company two months ago from an unidentified third party. Markham said Jessica's attorney has not contacted them and she is unsure if any proceeds will reach Sierra.The tape also shows her making abusive comments about other contestants, such as Carrie Underwood, who has gone on to have some success.An Indian tribe, thought to have had little previous contact with civilization, was found in a remote area of the Amazon, approximately 2000 km to the north of Rio de Janeiro. It comprises 87 members. Called Metyktire, they are reported to be by and large naked, except that the men use penis sheaths, and the women shave the tops of their heads. The reason for their not being discovered before now is thought to be at least partly due to the lack of larger rivers in the area, which makes communication difficult. The discovery was made when two members of the Metyktire tribe suddenly showed up in the Kayapo tribe's village, in the Menkregnoti reservation of the Amazon. The Metyktire tribe is a subgroup of the Kayapo tribe, with which it has had little significant contact, but the members speak an archaic form of the Kayapo language.In order to protect the members of the tribe from diseases they might lack resistance to, the Brazilian government has forbidden contact with them except for a team of doctors which has been sent in to examine them.Prince Charles, Britain's heir to the throne, has announced that he is to wed his lover of 34 years, Camilla Parker Bowles. In a press statement, the Prince of Wales said “Mrs Parker Bowles and I are absolutely delighted. It will be a very special day for us and our families.”Mrs Parker Bowles will use the title "HRH The Duchess of Cornwall" after their marriage, and it is intended that following the Prince's accession to the throne, Mrs Parker Bowles will use the title "HRH The Princess Consort".The pair are to marry on 8th April 2005 at a private civil ceremony in Windsor Castle, which will be an occasion primarily for friends and family. There will then be a service of prayer and dedication in St. George's Chapel, to be conducted by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Rowan Williams.Queen Elizabeth II and Duke of Edinburgh also released a press statement saying: "The Duke of Edinburgh and I are very happy that The Prince of Wales and Mrs Parker Bowles are to marry. We have given them our warmest good wishes for their future together."The proposed wedding is likely to raise many religious and constitutional questions, especially as Mrs Parker Bowles is divorced and her husband is still alive. However, the Archbishop of Canterbury said "I am pleased that Prince Charles and Mrs Camilla Parker Bowles have decided to take this important step."The marriage will end many years of speculation spanning a relationship which has lasted since 1971. Following the death of the Prince's previous wife, Princess Diana, media speculation about the couple has increased.Performances by Sir Elton John and the English National Ballet featured in the Concert for Diana, held in Wembley Stadium, London on Sunday to commemorate the late Diana, Princess of Wales life on what would have been her 46th birthday.  As a result of the terror attacks in the United Kingdom on the days prior to the event, heightened security precautions were in force, with a high police presence around the venue, and bag searches taking place.  Despite the security fears, over 63,000 attended the concert. It was televised to 120 countries around the world, with a potential audience of 500 million.The concert, broadcast by the BBC, featured acts from many groups and individuals including Sir Elton John, and the English National Ballet.  It was hosted by Princes William and Harry and opened and closed by Sir Elton John, who is remembered for having played a unique rendition of Candle in the Wind at the Princess' funeral.  Performances were interspersed with tributes from various public figures including Tony Blair, the former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and Nelson Mandela, the former President of South Africa.  Films showing parts of Diana's life, with testimony from those who worked with her, were also aired, publicising the Princess' work around the world, which was to be supported by profits from the concert.Today, during the exhibition's banquet, the museum is to present Bob Kuhn with their lifetime achievement award.  Over 50 pieces of his work is being featured in a special exhibit at the museum.For more information, visit the National Cowboy & Western Heritage Museum website.Canadian professional wrestler Chris Benoit, who performed for World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), was found dead, along with his wife Nancy, 43, and their son Daniel, 7, in their home in Atlanta, Georgia on Monday. Police are calling the deaths a "double murder-suicide.""There are no further details at this time, other than the Benoit family residence is currently being investigated by local authorities. WWE extends its sincerest thoughts and prayers to the Benoit family's relatives and loved ones in this time of tragedy," said a statement posted on the WWE website.Scott Ballard, Fayette County District Attorney, says that "the details (of the incident), when they come out, are going to prove a little bizarre."Fayette County Sheriff deputy Lt. Tommy Pope stated that police found the family at about 2:30 p.m. (eastern time) when the WWE called police and asked them to do a "welfare check" after friends stated that Benoit sent them "curious text messages." It is reported that Benoit missed several meetings which prompted the call to police. Pope also stated that police were "not actively searching for any suspects outside of the house."In a press conference, the Sheriff's Office released the details that Benoit's wife and son had both died of asphyxiation. He also hinted that the wife had been bound. TMZ.com is reporting that Benoit strangled his wife on Friday, smothered his son on late Friday or early Saturday, and then hanged himself inside his weight room on late Saturday, Sunday, or Monday.Benoit was scheduled to wrestle in Houston, Texas for a match at WWE's Vengeance pay-per-view event on June 24. However, Benoit flew home due to "personal reasons," said Jim Ross, the announcer for WWE events.Benoit was a professional wrestler with the nickname The Canadian Crippler, who wrestled for New Japan Pro Wrestling, Extreme Championship Wrestling, World Championship Wrestling, and World Wrestling Entertainment. His wife Nancy was known in the wrestling ring as Woman and Fallen Angel. She was a valet and manager and also wrestled for Jim Crockett Promotions, Extreme Championship Wrestling and World Championship Wrestling.Canadian former professional wrestler Killer Kowalski died in the early morning hours of August 30 at the age of 81. Kowalski suffered a major heart attack on August 8 and remained in critical condition at a local hospital in Everett, Massachusetts until August 18 when his family took him off of life support.During a career that spanned for 30 years, Kowalski wrestled for several organizations including the National Wrestling Alliance and the American Wrestling Association. In the 1960s and 70's Kowalski wrestled for the World Wide Wrestling Federation. In 1976 he won the WWWF World Tag Team Championship with Big John Studd. In 1952 Kowalski was involved in an incident with wrestler Yukon Eric. During the match while performing his signature diving knee drop he ripped part of Eric's ear off. When Kowalski visited him in the hospital the pair laughed with each other, the following day the newspaper stated that Kowalski showed up at the hospital and laughed at his victim rather than with him, furthering Kowalski's image as a heel.After retiring Kowalski opened up a wrestling school. During his time teaching he taught some superstars such as Triple H, Perry Saturn and Chyna. He has also trained Chris Nowinski, A-Train, Frankie Kazarian, Kenny Dykstra as well as others. Kowalski was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame and Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame in 1996, the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame in 2003 and the National Polish-American Hall of Fame in 2007.Former student of Kowalski, Triple H said "It's a huge loss. Walter was one of the biggest name performers of his time. His legacy will live on forever."Protesters affiliated with the Palestine Solidarity Campaign disrupted a performance by the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra at the Royal Albert Hall in London on Thursday evening as part of The Proms concert season. The disruption forced the BBC to cut short a live broadcast of the orchestra playing Bruch's violin concerto. 30 people were removed from the auditorium but no arrests were made.The BBC made a statement regarding the disruption: "We regret that as a result of sustained audience disruption within the concert hall which affected the ability to hear the music, tonight’s Israel Philharmonic Orchestra Prom was taken off air."Outside the concert hall, around twenty people protested with banners. According to comments on a Facebook page linked to by the Palestine Solidarity Campaign, there was a planned "Zionist counter-demonstration". The same Facebook page also has a comment posted at 4:12pm giving advice for attendees:The disruption follows a failed attempt by activists to prevent the performance from happening in the first place.The Spanish people will have to wait a little longer before they can sing to their national anthem.La Marcha Real (The Royal March) has been wordless since its conception in 1761, but on June 5, 2007, Alejandro Blanco, the president of the Spanish Olympic Committee, advocated the creation of lyrics to La Marcha Real."The lyrics have generated controversy and, in some cases, rejection. Spain is a country with cheerful people who sing at any opportunity, so why shouldn’t they be able to sing the words of a national anthem?," stated Blanco.Just half a year later, the proposed lyrics were withdrawn being due to criticism that it represents Spain's right-wing past, not its cultural diversity.Among the reasons for it being withdrawn include the first phrase of each stanza, "Viva España!" (Long live Spain!), which refers to a rallying cry by the late dictator General Francisco Franco. It also said that Spaniards should love the "fatherland." Blanco also stated that the lyrics "lacked consensus.""I have to accept reality, but this does not mean I no longer believe in the idea," added Blanco.Spanish tenor Placido Domingo, a supporter of giving La Marcha Real lyrics, was due to be the first person to sing the Spanish national anthem at the Olympic Committee dinner on January 21.Prior to the October 8 global launch of the political documentary film "Why Democracy?", Public Television Service Taiwan (PTS Taiwan) held a preview seminar and invited some professionals at Eslite Bookstore Tung-nan Branch, Taipei City today."Because we noticed on the importance of the democratic process in Taiwan, PTS Taiwan imported this series film from Netherlands. I hope that citizens, governmental level, and academic professionals in Taiwan can learn some experiences from the series movie." Yuan-huei Hu said. "Without democracy, Teng-hui Lee and Shui-bian Chen won't be the elected President of the Republic of China." Ron Chen remarked at opening.At the Executive Panel, Thomas Peng pointed out problems of politics and democratic process in Taiwan, and mentioned the disadvantage such as bribery at voting and process of a election on the movie "Please Vote For Me" ever happened in Taiwan. "Democracy has its advantage or not." Peng said. "A leader should play a suitable role after elected by supporters with their anticipation and understand what they need." Chi-chang Hung said.Even though the documentary film "Please Vote For Me" is directed by Wei-jun Chen (Producer of Wuhan Television), but due to the political problem, this film is available world-wide except China. "If we review this film without political factor, this series film exposed some experiences and problems in some of democratic countries." Wen-tang Cheng (Film Director in Taiwan) mentioned after the highlights played at the seminar."This series film will be suitable for persons who has a great expect on politics and democracies in Taiwan. Governments in Taiwan should learn some valuable experiences from this series film whether those experiences are good or not. If governmental person can understand those meanings in this film, politics and democracy in Taiwan will have a good process." Chien-jen Tsai (Chief Editor of Taiwan Lihpao) said at Executive Panel.After the seminar, PTS Taiwan predicted that more than 300 million people in 200 countries will watch this series film and attract some discussions and topics on politics and democracy. The two sponsors of this series film are Taiwan Competitiveness Forum and New Taiwanese Cultural Foundation.J K Rowling, the author of the "Harry Potter" series, has revealed the release date of the seventh and final installment - Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows - July 21, 2007. Mary GrandPre, the illustrator of the first six books, will return to illustrate the new novel. The book will be released worldwide at midnight by the publisher Scholastic. Huge crowds are expected around the world, and the book, since its first appearance on Amazon.co.uk, had risen to the number one sale for pre-orders. After the new book was announced, Amazon.com reported a surge of traffic occurred on their website. Amazon.com has called the novel "one of the most eagerly awaited books of all time".J K Rowling recently wrote the following about her new book: "I'm now writing scenes that have been planned, in some cases, for a dozen years or even more, I don't think anyone who has not been in a similar situation can possibly know how this feels: I am alternately elated and overwrought. I both want, and don't want, to finish this book (don't worry, I will.)"British rock band Queen have been voted Britain's greatest band by BBC Radio 2 listeners.More than 20,000 people voted for the band, which was one of five finalists selected by listeners over the previous week. DJ Mark Goodier then hosted a three-hour live show on New Year's day to discuss the five contenders.Votes were cast via email, text and phone, with Queen up against The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, Take That and Oasis. It was then revealed live on air that Queen were the winners, with The Beatles just 400 votes behind.Gerald Levert, R&B singer, songwriter and producer died of a heart attack around 2:30 p.m. on Friday.Gerald Levert was the son of Eddie Levert (of the soul group The O'Jays). Levert was known for a number of top ten hits in the 1980s and 90s, particularly "Pop, Pop Goes My Mind", "Casanova", and ABC-123". Levert had finished an album, which is expected to go into release in early 2007. The memorial service for his death will be held Friday, November 17, and scheduled to honor Levert are Stevie Wonder, Johnny Gill and Angie Stone.Rachel Rice has won the 2008 series of Big Brother. The trainee teacher won the ninth series with 51.3% of the final vote. She defeated blind radio producer Mikey Hughes despite him being the bookies favourite. Others eliminated on the night included Sara Folino, Rex Newmark and Darnell Swallow. As well as training to be a teacher Rice is also an actress and model. She has appeared in the television adaptions of novels The Prince and the Pauper and The History of Mr Polly as well as the film Night Train to Venice. She came second in the 2003 contest of Miss Wales. She was beaten by Imogen Thomas who appeared in the 2006 series of Big Brother. This years series brought on controversy and media watchdog Ofcom and Channel 4 had collectively received over 433 complaints about housemate Alexandra De-Gale. She was later removed for intimidating housemates. Dance teacher Dennis McHugh was removed after he spat in the face of housemate Mohamed Mohamed. This series has been the lowest rated series of all with an average viewing of 3.2 million people. This is an average of 300,000 less than last year. The series started out strong with around 5.4 million viewers but soon started to decline. The show has been reinstated for another series next year.English actress Rachel Weisz thinks that Botox injections should be banned for all actors. The 39-year-old actress, best known for her roles in the Mummy movie franchise and for her Academy Award-winning portrayal in The Constant Gardener, feels facial Botox injections leave actors less able to convey emotion and that it harms the acting industry as much as steroids harm athletes.In an interview with UK's Harper's Bazaar, coming out next month, Weisz says, "It should be banned for actors, as steroids are for sportsmen," she claims. "Acting is all about expression; why would you want to iron out a frown?"Currently living in New York, she also mentions that English women are much less worried about their physical appearance than in the United States. "I love the way girls in London dress," she claimed. "It's so different to the American 'blow-dry and immaculate grooming' thing."Rafael Nadal, the 2008 Men's Singles winner at the Wimbledon Championships, announced today his withdrawal from the 2009 Championships because of a knee injury caused by his tendinitis.  The formal announcement came after he had played the second of his warm-up matches.On Thursday, whilst playing Lleyton Hewitt, Nadal had experienced issues with moving about the court.  Again, whilst playing Stanislas Wawrinka today, he had problems and lost the match.He will be the first champion to not defend his Wimbledon championship since Goran Ivanišević pulled out in 2002.As a result, fifth seed Juan Martín del Potro takes Nadal's place in the first quarter of the draw, seventeenth seed James Blake takes del Potro's place in the fifth quarter, Nicolas Kiefer becomes the thirty-third seed and takes Blake's place in the fourth quarter, with his own previous spot now filled by lucky loser Thiago Alves.Björn Borg was quoted on Tuesday (June 16) as saying "Nadal is always a dangerous player because he is the best in the world — but what happened in Paris and then the injury, I am picking Andy Murray or Roger Federer. […] For Nadal to win five in a row (at the French Open) was a big goal this year. I am sure he was very, very disappointed when he went home after Paris. That defeat took him many, many days to get over. Nadal is saying he has got an injury, but he has to be fit at Wimbledon if he wants to go all the way, and I do not think he will go all the way this year."Rock band Rage Against The Machine have beaten Joe McElderry to become the UK's official Christmas number one, following one of the biggest battles in the history of the UK Singles Chart. Their song Killing in the Name pushed the X Factor winner's new single The Climb into second place.A Facebook campaign backing the American band aimed to stop an X Factor winner reaching the Christmas number one spot once again. Artists from the TV talent show, owned by music mogul Simon Cowell, have taken the festive top spot for four years in a row. The group attracted over 900,000 members and widespread press attention, after it was started by Jon and Tracy Morter."Are you getting fed up about the possibility of ANOTHER X-Factor Christmas No.1? ...us too...so we're going to do something about it!," they said on the group's Facebook page. They decided to back "Killing In The Name", first released in 1992.Cowell had previously branded the campaign "cynical", but on Saturday contacted the Morters to congratulate them on making a "very exciting race for the Christmas number one". The campaign has also raised over £69,000 for homeless charity Shelter.Rage Against The Machine guitarist Tom Morello had backed the campaign on Twitter. He announced that the band would play a free victory gig in the UK if they reached number one.The result was announced on BBC Radio 1's chart show this evening by Scott Mills. McElderry had been due to appear on the show, but did not arrive.New television stars in Australia, the RAGGS Kids Club Band started as simply a mall touring promotion.Airing on Australia's Seven Network weekdays at 9:00 am, the series features new songs, animated segments, and "letters from friends", as well as the music videos and concert scenes that the DVD releases focused on. Another noticeable change is the design of the costumed characters that star in the series, which now have larger heads, besides many other modifications.Characters in the series include original members RAGGS, Trilby, Fido, B. Max (B. Maxwell Oliver) and Razzles. New to the series is Dumpster, an opinionated cat. The stars live together in a home, and learn to develop positive relationships with each other.More concerts for the show will be filmed in September 2006. Producers are inviting fans to contact them, to be notified when the open tapings happen.Created by RAGGS LLC Production, the series is co-produced with Southern Star Entertainment Pty Limited. RAGGS was created by former advertising executive Toni Steedman, who now manages RAGGS LLC full-time. Beginning as a promotional company managing mall's kids clubs, RAGGS expanded to a touring show, released CDS, a DVD, and a line of merchandise. The series' creator plans to have the show on the air in the United States, within the next few months. Sixty-five episodes were produced.This certainly isn't the first time a fictional band has had a television series. The Archies, Josie and the Pussycats, The Banana Splits, and Alvin and the Chipmunks are all notable examples.Ramadan, the holy month of Islam, is scheduled to begin today in India. The new moon, which marks the beginning of Ramadan, was observed accross the nation.Maulana Mufti Mukkaram Ahmed, Shahi Imam of Delhi's Fatehpur Sikri mosque, announced that Ramadan would begin from today. The new moon was observed in states including Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh.The new moon could not be observed in Delhi and Mumbai as the sky was covered by clouds but it was seen nearby.Ramadan is observed by fasting from sunrise to sunset, and is the ninth month of the Islamic lunar calendar. It lasts till Eid ul-Fitr or the next new moon.Some other countries, such as Saudi Arabia, started Ramadan yesterday.Randall Munroe is the writer of the popular webcomic xkcd. The comic is known for its geeky humor and minimalist drawing style that generally uses stick figures. Munroe worked as a contractor for NASA before writing xkcd full time in 2006. Wikinews reporter Joshua Zelinsky interviewed Munroe at Vericon, Harvard's annual science fiction convention.When 24-year-old Andrew Vactor of Urbana, Ohio, United States was convicted of violating the city's noise ordinance, Judge Susan J. Fornof-Lippencott offered to reduce the normal fine of US$150 to $35 if he agreed to listen to 20 hours of classical music. Fifteen minutes into the sentence the rap music fan changed his mind and paid the full fine in order to end his probation.The sentence would have included selections from Ludwig van Beethoven, Frédéric Chopin, Johann Sebastian Bach, and Claude Debussy. Chief Probation Officer Glenda Runkle says the department keeps three CDs for this type of sentence.  Champaign County Municipal Court Judge Fornof-Lippencott told the Springfield News-Sun she often assigns creative sentencing options. "I think a lot of people don't like to be forced to listen to music. And I think sometimes the defendants ... are put in the position the general public is put in." She also selects episodes of Dr. Phil and The Oprah Winfrey Show that she considers relevant to other misdemeanor offenses and supplies copies to the probation department. "The idea, hopefully, is that it will inspire people not to come back for the same violation. It offers an opportunity for them to cut down on their fines and costs and at the same time broaden their horizons."Although Judge Fornof-Lippencott hopes these sentences "might enlighten defendants", Vactor denied that musical taste played a role in his decision to pay the full fine. Vactor, a student at Urbana University, told reporters he needed to leave for basketball team practice. "I didn’t have the time to deal with that," he said. "I just decided to pay the fine."On Monday, controversial Russian political artist Pyotr Pavlensky, currently in Paris, informed media that he and his family are to seek political asylum in France. Pavlensky said he and his partner Oksana Shalygina were falsely accused under Section 132 of the Criminal law for rape. The 32-year-old artist has been charged on several occasions. In the November 2015, Pavlensky set Russia's Federal Security Service's headquarters' door on fire in Moscow. Pavlensky called this an artwork named "Threat" and was sentenced to a prison term for vandalism. He was released seven months later, in June. Anastasia Slonina, an actress working in a theatre in Moscow called Teatr.doc, known for liberal plays, filed rape charges on Pavlensky and his partner Oksana. The theatre claims to have a CCTV video footage of Pavlensky and other men beating Slonina's boyfriend in the parking lot on October 31. Pavlensky said he does not appear in the video. Pavlensky and Oksana were detained in December at Sheremetyevo airport for questioning, which went on for seven hours. Pavlensky commented the rape charges had a political motivation behind it and denied the allegations. Olga Papernaya, former art director at Moscow's film club said, "Alas, yesterday a national hero and a great performance artist, today — it’s true — a criminal, a psychopath and a rapist". Pavlensky, Oksana, and their two daughters left for Ukraine in mid-December before flying to France. They arrived in Paris on Saturday.In one of several painful performances, Pyotr Pavlensky sewed his lips to support members of musical band Pussy Riot who were imprisoned that time. The band members were charged with hooliganism for performing an anti-Putin song in a church. In 2013, he nailed his scrotum in Moscow's Red Square naming the art as "Fixation". Earlier in 2013, he wrapped himself, half naked, in a cocoon of barbed wire. The following year, he chopped off a part of his right ear lobe with a chef's knife sitting nude on a roof labelling the art as "Segregation".About returning to Russia, Pavlensky told BBC, "I have no desire to return like a lamb to the slaughter, especially a slaughter that is desired, by the state." Pavlensky and Oksana are liable to be sentenced to a ten-year jail term if found guilty.The rapper, Lil' Kim, also known as Kimberly Jones, was sentenced to one year and one day in prison and ordered to pay a $50,000 fine after lying to a grand jury. Jones had been questioned about the involvement of several of her acquaintances in a gunfight. Jones had testified before a grand jury that she did not see her manager the day of the altercation and claimed that she did not recognize a photo of one of her associates. Jones also said that she took "complete blame" for the same perjury committed by her assistant, Monique Dopwell.The fight broke out in front of the "Hot 97" radio station in New York. Jones' entourage came across the rival rap group, Capone-N-Noreaga, and confronted the group about the song, "Bang, Bang", which contained an insult to Jones.Rap artist Snoop Dogg was arrested for possession of an illegal drug and possession of a firearm, according to police on Thursday.The rapper's real name is Calvin Broadus. He was arrested at 3:45 p.m. on Thursday at Bob Hope Airport located in Burbank, California. Broadus paid the $35,000 bail and is expected back in Los Angeles County Superior Court on December 12, 2006.Airport police officers stopped the artist for parking in the airport passenger loading and unloading zone. Upon conducting a search of the vehicle, the police found a gun and a quantity of marijuana inside.Broadus' attorney, Donald Etra, stated "There was no basis for this arrest. We believe that once this is cleared up, all charges will be dismissed". Authorities in California have not yet pressed charges.In September, Broadus attempted to carry a folding police baton onto an aircraft and was arrested at John Wayne Airport located in Orange County, California. Earlier this year, he was also cautioned for fighting in Heathrow Airport in London, England.Grammy award-winning rapper/producer Kanye West appeared on a live on-air telethon simulcast on NBC, MSNBC, CNBC and PAX for Hurricane Katrina victims. Live on air, West said "George Bush doesn't care about black people," after saying "America is set up to help the poor, the black people, the less well-off as slow as possible."  He also said "the Red Cross is doing everything they can," and stated that he was going to see what the maximum amount of money he can donate is. West criticized government authorities and stated that "They've given them permission to go down and shoot us."West first deviated from the script he and comedian Mike Myers were using by commenting on the recent uproar over differently captioned photos for black and white people in the aftermath of the hurricane: "I hate the way they portray us in the media. If you see a black family, it says they're looting. See a white family, it says they're looking for food."Though a several-second delay was in place, the comments were let through uncensored on the EST live broadcast as the person in charge "was instructed to listen for a curse word, and didn't realize he had gone off-script," according to an NBC spokeswoman.NBC has released a statement after the broadcast: "Tonight's telecast was a live television event wrought with emotion. Kanye West departed from the scripted comments that were prepared for him, and his opinions in no way represent the views of the networks. It would be most unfortunate if the efforts of the artists who participated tonight and the generosity of millions of Americans who are helping those in need are overshadowed by one person's opinion."The sponsor of the event, the American Red Cross, also issued a statement on the telethon, stating: "During the telecast, a controversial comment was made by one of the celebrities. We would like the American public to know that our support is unwavering, regardless of political circumstances. We are a neutral and impartial organization, and support disaster victims across the country regardless of race, class, color or creed."The popular rapper Obie Trice was shot while driving on a Detroit Freeway. Trice exited into a nearby suburb, where his girlfriend, uninjured in the incident, waved down police. Trice has now been released from Providence Hospital, where a speedy recovery is expected. There are currently no suspects in the shooting.Obie was first signed after Eminem introduced him to D12 member Bizarre, and appeared briefly in the movie 8 Mile. He is currently working on his second album.Music celebrity Calvin Broadus (aka Snoop Dogg) was arrested by US Customs and Border Protection on Saturday at the US/Mexico Sierra Blanca highway border checkpoint for illegal possession of drug paraphernalia.Customs and Border Protection spokesman Bill Brooks said agents smelled cannabis when doing a routine search of Mr. Broadus's tour bus. "When our officers did a further inspection," he said, "they discovered a small amount of [cannabis] and turned him over to the Hudspeth County sheriff". A local County Judge, Becky Dean Walker, stated the typical punitive measure for an illegal drug paraphernalia citation is up to a $500 mail-in fine.Mr. Broadus's agent was not available for comment. Mr. Broadus has stated in interviews that he has a prescription for cannabis in the US state of California, for migraines and blurry vision. He has been in trouble with the law in the past, and has had a number of convictions on weapon and drug possession charges. Willie Nelson, another music celebrity, was arrested at the same checkpoint for similar charges in November of 2010. The musicians created a song and music video together about cannabis in 2008, called My Medicine.An exceptionally rare coin, which had been hidden in a family collection for over a century, sold at Heritage Auction Galleries Californian Coin Auction for US$345,000.The 1856-O Double Eagle gold coin, rated as XF45+ (XF meaning Extremely Fine) was discovered in July 2010, having been held by a family after it had been held in the James Bullock collection. Given a value in the auctioneer's catalogue of $220,000, it quickly rose past that with the help of the 5,000 bidders Heritage say were involved in the auction.The coin is believed to be one of 20 or fewer examples available commercially. Two are in the Smithsonian Museum.The President of Heritage Auctions, Greg Rohan, said, "We were all quite impressed overall with how these coins performed".  He continued, "Collectors continue to respond enthusiastically to the best and rarest examples, as evidenced by the heated competition for the Bullock 1856-O double eagle. We don’t expect to see a drop-off in gold demand as the year comes to a close and we hold our last few auctions of 2010."Overall, Heritage said that a $13.4 million total was achieved with 96% of lots sold.Santa Clara, California, USA.  The adult literacy program Read Santa Clara marked its tenth anniversary today with a gathering of program participants, staff, and supporters from the community.  Read Santa Clara trains volunteer tutors and matches them with adult learners who wish to build their literacy skills.In the presentation, program staff and supporters reviewed the program's history and growth, honored long-time participants, and looked toward the future.Santa Clara Mayor Patricia Mahan spoke at the gathering, noting, "Read Santa Clara joins people who need to learn with people who need to teach, and what a powerful combination that is."  She added, "I think adult literacy is so important."Program coordinators estimate that tutors volunteered some 5000 hours last year.  City Manager Jennifer Sparacino estimates, "That's worth about $100,000 per year in volunteer time."Learners also spoke about what Read Santa Clara meant to them.  Raymond Moreno said, "I hope it stays for another ten, twenty, thirty years, because we need it."  Juan Velasquez said, "My life has changed a lot...I did many things I could not have done without help."  And Ike Moore said, "To be able to express myself...What a gift!"A recall issued last week for Thomas the Tank Engine toys made in China and containing lead-based paint, is the latest scare for consumers, and follows recent scandals involving Chinese-made pet food, pharmaceuticals, toothpaste and other toys, The New York Times has reported in a series of articles.Last week, RC2, a U.S. toy company based in Oak Brook, Illinois, issued a recall for its popular wooden "Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends" train sets. The recall involved 1.5 million "Thomas Wooden Railway" vehicles and train sets sold at toy stores and various retailers across the U.S. from January 2005 through June 2007.A subsequent recall has been issued in the United Kingdom, where Thomas the Tank Engine was originated in the 1940s as a character in a children's story by the Reverend W.V. Awdry. Around 70,000 toys are involved in the U.K. recall, according to The Guardian."RC2 has determined that the surface paints on the recalled products contain lead. Lead is toxic if ingested by young children and can cause adverse health effects," the Consumer Product Safety Commission said in a press release dated June 13. "Consumers should take the recalled toys away from young children immediately and contact RC2 Corp. for a replacement toy," the commission said.Those "adverse health effects" could include brain and nerve damage, especially in young children, as well as blood and brain disorders. Severe lead poisoning causes vomiting, diarrhea, convulsions, anemia, loss of appetite, headaches and in particularly high doses, coma and death.In an article on Monday, The New York Times reported that recalls have been issued for 24 different toys in the U.S. in the past year, and every one of them was made in China. According to the Toy Industry Association, toys made in China account for around 70 percent to 80 percent of all the toys sold in the U.S., The Times said."These are items that children are supposed to be playing with," Prescott Carlson was quoted as saying by The Times. Carlson is a co-founder of a child-safety website called Imperfect Parent, which tracks recalls of toys and other baby products. "It should be at a point where companies in the United States that are importing these items are held liable," Carlson said.RC2 would not comment to The Times, and a Consumer Product Safety Commission spokesman would not say how long ago the problem with the lead paint was discovered.For a follow-up article on Tuesday, The Times visited a factory in Dongguan, in China's Guangdong province, where the "Thomas and Friends" toys are made. The paper interviewed workers and took photos on the factory floor."You're intruding," a factory manager identified only as Zhong was quoted as telling the reporters. "Tell me, why exactly are you here?"During the visit, a reporter, translator and a photographer were detained by factory officials, and released a day later after local police and government officials intervened.The factory also produces other toys for RC2, including toy John Deere trucks, NASCAR racing models and M&M's cars, The Times said. RC2 makes the toys under licenses from various companies. The "Thomas and Friends" toys are made under license from Hit Entertainment, which owns the "Thomas" brand.There were a record amount of fire calls during Guy Fawkes night, the festivities had emergency services stretched to the limit, a spokesman for the NZ Fire service said that it was "like driving through a war zone." Despite this, no major structure fires were reported.Preliminary numbers show that the amount of minor fires reported amounted to 1,729 between the period of October 27 and November 5. For the same period last year, 2005, there were only 1,632. Last year's numbers were also record setting at the time. Over the Guy Fawkes weekend, November 4 - November 5, there were 784 reports of fires. The actual numbers will be released soon, as the false alarms and multiple reports are separated out. A safety campaign by the NZ Fire brigade advising the public to call 111 on the suspicion of any fire is expected to have increased the number of calls per incident. Discussions on the NZ volunteer firefighter's mailing list suggest that the majority of bad behaviour occurred in urban areas.The New Zealand police had to report to 423 reports of disorder in the top half on the North Island alone and in just seven hours. There was a fight which involved 40 people, in Whitianga; police were called to break up that fight and were also called to stop youths from getting fireworks from a shop. Also, in Tauranga, police were called to a fight party of 200 youths at 1.00 a.m. In Mount Albert, Auckland, police were forced to retreat and wait for reinforcements during an incident.In Wellington, New Zealand, the police had to make 39 arrests, including assaults, disorderly behaviors and liquor ban breaches. The police said it was as bad as New Year's Eve. "It was as busy as New Year's Eve. It was one of the busiest nights we have had this year," Sergeant Maggie Windle said, "Alcohol was a big factor in a lot of the arrests and a lot of the offending. We were dealing with the bulk of this mass disorder."Remarkably, the St John's Ambulance Service reported only one serious firework related injury; a stabbing following an incident involving fireworks.Mike Hall, chief executive/national commander of the New Zealand Fire Service, said: "The unfortunate result vindicates his call for a retail ban on fireworks, made last month. Despite warnings and a safety campaign, and even with parts of the country being much wetter than they were last year, firefighters were still called out more times than ever. That means that firefighters cannot respond as quickly as they would like to genuine emergencies, and thousands of volunteers across the country are needlessly called away from work and family commitments."The Government had previously warned the public that a ban on the public sale of fireworks would be enacted if behaviour was deemed unacceptable over the Guy Fawkes season.Opinon polls indicate that the public is divided 50:50 over permitting the sale of fireworks, or wanting to see fireworks restricted to public displays or licensed operators. Mr. Hall said "the public are also sick of the danger to themselves, property and pets posed by misuse of fireworks, not to mention the late-night noise and mess associated with people letting off fireworks indiscriminately. The lack of a major fireworks-related fire or fatality at the weekend was pure luck."Allegedly Dunedin students were burning furniture in the streets.Marian Hobbs, Member of Parliament, said that she has put in a bill to stop fireworks to be used by the public: "I'm not saying ban fireworks. I'm not a killjoy. But it does give us powers to stop what is dangerous, time-consuming and expensive. We have to make a start and put our foot down on this."The Red Bull Racing Formula One racing team must prove to the Malaysian Grand Prix stewards that one of their cars is safe to race after Scottish driver David Coulthard suffered a crash at Friday's  opening practice. It was his second major suspension failure in as many weekends and his third major accident, having had his last race ended prematurely after a collision with Felipe Massa's Ferrari.A part failure caused Coulthard to run off the road. When he subsequently hit a kerb both sides of the front suspension completely failed, ripping both wheels loose. He was unable to participate in any more pre-race practice.After stewards met team head Christian Horner and technical head Adrian Newey a statement was released stating that the FIA technical delegate required to receive a detailed technical report from Red Bull. The purpose of this would be to prove that the vehicle is race worthy as determined by an article in the technical regulations. This article gives stewards the powers to prevent cars from competing if they are deemed to be unsafe."The Stewards, having met with the Team Principal and Technical Representative of Red Bull Racing in relation to the incident involving Car 9 in Practice 1, have requested that the competitor provide to the FIA Technical Delegate a report verifying that the integrity of the suspension is such that the car should not be deemed 'of dangerous constructions' under Art 2.3 of the 2008 Formula One Technical Regulations," read the statement.Howard told reporters he believed there would be no problems with clearing the vehicle for tomorrows race. The failed component, he said, had been fitted immediately after the race at Melbourne. "It was a front right track rod that failed. You can see that the adhesives failed and it just looked like a human error. So we have absolutely no concerns about the car's safety for tomorrow."Coulthard was also confident. I am not worried about my safety. Mechanical failures are part and parcel of grand prix racing unfortunately... We did 10,000 kilometres in testing in the car. It was just a new part which did just six laps. It was a fault in the manufacturing process and game over. One jumbo falls out of the sky you don't ground them. All history shows that things fail now and again. With the front suspension the car rides up."This weekend saw the opening of two new exhibitions at Edinburgh's National Gallery of Modern Art. Wikinews attended Thursday's press preview for the event where a full contingent of the capital's press turned out to see the striking collection of paintings, photographs, and other works. Presented below are a selection of images captured at the preview.REFLECTIONS: A Series of Changing Displays of Contemporary Art, billed as a showcase of a "diverse range of internationally-renowned contemporary and modern artists" is to display major works from the Gallery's permanent collection, alongside important loans. Alongside this broad range of works, a three-room display of pieces on-loan from the Roy Lichtenstein Foundation — with a dramatic painted steel relief, 'borrowed' from the Tate in London — runs from March 14 through to January 10 next year.Admission to both exhibitions is free; being located in Dean, to the north-west of Edinburgh's city centre, a free Gallery bus service is available.David Emmanuel, a British reggae singer known as Smiley Culture, has died during a police raid at his home in Surrey, England. The singer is believed to have died from a stab wound when the Metropolitan police arrived at his house at 07:00 (GMT). Emmanuel, aged 48, was due to face trial for conspiracy to supply cocaine next week.It is unclear how Emmanuel received the stab wound but investigators from the Independent Police Complaints Commission are looking to see if it was self-inflicted. Mike Franklin, the South East IPCC commissioner, released a statement saying "We will be looking into the planning of the arrest, the way in which it was carried out and the actions of all the officers who were present at the time of the incident."A spokesman at Scotland Yard made a statement, "As part of an ongoing operation, officers from the Metropolitan police service's serious and organised crime command attended a residential address in east Surrey to carry out an arrest warrant. While they were at the address, an incident occurred during which a 48-year-old man died. Officers from Surrey police attended the incident and it has been formally referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission."Emmanuel reached fame during the 1980s. His two biggest hits were "Cockney Translation" and "Police Officer", the latter reaching number 12 in the UK singles chart.As part of the United Nations World Year Of Physics 2005, events and celebrations around the globe are planned for the centennial of the publication of Albert Einstein's theory of relativity.Some of the more noteworthy events include:January 17—Chancellor Gerhard Schröder sparked off ceremonies at the German Historical Museum in Berlin for the "Year of Einstein".April 18—A statue by Robert Berks will be unveiled at Princeton, New Jersey , his home for the last 22 years of his life.May 24—A relativity inspired ballet is to be performed in London.Pirelli Relativity Challenge 2005—Explain relativity with a five minute multi-media presentation, win $30,000.Although best known for the theory of special relativity, it was a series of papers published in 1905 (later known as the "Annus Mirabilis" papers–the miracle year) that formed a break from Newtonion or classical science and changed modern physics.While the title isn't known on a world-wide basis, the final paper Einstein that year–Does the Inertia of a Body Depend on Its Energy Content?–produced a famous mathmetical formula: E=mc², which describes the relationship between mass and energy.Significant Events1879—Born Ulm, Germany March 141902—Employed as clerk at Swiss Patent Office1905—Published his "annus mirabilis" papers in Annalen der Physik1921—Received Nobel Prize for his work on the photoelectric effect1933—Left Germany a month before Hitler took power.1955—Died Princeton, New Jersey April 181999—Named Person of 20th Century by Time Magazine.Dutch architect Rem Koolhaas has been awarded the "Golden Lion for Lifetime Achievement" at the opening ceremony of the 12th International Architecture Exhibition of the Venice Biennale, on August 28th. The decision was taken by the Board of the Biennale, upon the proposal of the Director of this year's exhibition, Kazuyo Sejima. The Board stated that "Rem Koolhaas has expanded the possibilities of architecture. He has focused on the exchanges between people in space. He creates buildings that bring people together and in this way forms ambitious goals for architecture. His influence on the world has come well beyond architecture." The Japanese architect Kazuyo Sejima, who won this year's Pritzker Prize is the Biennale's first female director. Rem Koolhaas is renown as one of the founders of the Office for Metropolitan Architecture (OMA) in 1975, and author of  Delirious New York (1978) and S,M,L,XL (1995). Among his most important buildings are the Netherlands Dance Theatre at The Hague, the Nexus Housing at Fukuoka in Japan, the Kunsthal in Rotterdam, the Grand Palais of Euralille in Lille, the Villa dall’Ava in Paris, and the Seattle Public Library. One of his most recent projects is the China Central Television (CCTV) headquarters building in Beijing. The Board also awarded a special Golden Lion in memory of the Japanese architect, Kazuo Shinohara, who died in 2006. The Golden Lion for the best National Participation was this year awarded to the Kingdom of Bahrain. Located in Venice's Arsenal and Giardini, the Biennale will be open until November 21.The last convoy of US soldiers crossed the border from Iraq into Kuwait on Sunday, effectively bringing the controversial eight-year long Iraq War to an end. The final convoy, containing around a hundred US military vehicles with five hundred troops, exited Iraq at 0738 AST (0438 UTC) Sunday.Private First Class Martin Lamb described the departure as "a good feeling ... knowing this is going to be the last mission out of here". The event was "[p]art of history, you know — we're the last ones out," according to Lamb.The Iraq War, which commenced in 2003 on the pretext of Iraq possessing weapons of mass destruction, which later turned out to be false, was responsible for toppling the regime of Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein and introducing a democratic government within Iraq. In the aftermath of Hussein's downfall, a violent, religion-based conflict broke out between those of Shia Islam faith and Sunni Islam communities, reaching its peak in 2006. The following year, a large number of US troops were sent into Iraq; the number of sectarian and insurgent attacks subsequently declined.The Iraq War involved a maximum of over 170,000 US troops, stationed in Iraq at more than 500 bases. Tens of thousands to over 100,000 Iraqi citizens and close to 4,500 US troops were killed as a result of the war. The financial cost of the Iraq War was almost US$1 trillion (€767 billion or £638 billion) to the US government.US presence in Iraq has been reduced to 157 soldiers in charge of military training at their embassy in the capital Baghdad and a minor base of US marines. The US federal government reportedly intended to retain a minor counter-terrorism presence in Iraq, as well as the continuation of military training in the country. However, negotiations between US government representatives and Iraqi officials were unsuccessful, as they failed to reach an agreement on legal matters, such as troop immunity.In 2008, the Bush administration had committed to withdrawing all US troops from Iraq by the end of 2011, a movement which was announced by his successor and current US president Barack Obama in October 2011. Obama signified the conclusion of the war with Nouri al-Maliki, the prime minister of Iraq, earlier this month. In a speech in North Carolina at Fort Bragg, Obama stated that the country US troops were leaving is now "sovereign, stable and self-reliant".Reaction to the US government's decision has been mixed. According to Voice of America opinion polls in the United States indicate that a majority of Americans believe the war lasted longer than it should have done. Obama himself had opposed the war when he ran for president and vowed to end it. News agencies report Iraqis glad to see the US leave, but concerned for the future.Arab News reports that Iraqis also have mixed feelings, such as Safa, a 26-year old baker using a pseudonym, who said "I am proud — all Iraqis should be proud, like all those whose country has been freed. The Americans toppled Saddam, but our lives since then have gone backward." He also said, "The situation will only improve if politicians work on fighting corruption and adopt reforms."A 50-year-old mother calling herself Umm Mohammed said, "I don't think we can ever forgive the Americans for what they did to us, from killings to terrorism. Those people [Americans] think only about themselves, and not about the consequences of their actions."Mohammed Abdelamir, 60, said "We must all cooperate and work to improve the economy, the society, and begin rebuilding, and not fight because we are seeing that some politicians have already begun putting a stick in the wheel."Other Iraqis who worked for Americans are fearful over their departure, fearing they may be killed. John, a pseudonym for one such Iraqi, said to Al-Jazeera, "It’s a fact to these people, we betrayed our country, anyone who worked with the Americans. They think we don’t even deserve to be Iraqi."Mark, another such Iraqi, said "All the people around me know that I was working with the Americans. We feel that we are in danger from anyone who was against the US troops." John and Mark both worked for Provincial Reconstruction Teams (PRT) in Iraq. Both men have applied for Special Immigrant Visas (SIV) which the US government created in 2008 for Iraqis who have worked for US forces.However, there is an immense backlog for applicants, as over 30,000 await a decision. So far, only 7,000 SIV visas have been issued. John has been waiting for a visa for over a year, Mark has been waiting nine months since applying in March. Mark said, "They said we should wait at least six months, but this is crazy". And, "For nine months I am jobless, waiting for that visa. I have nothing to do."Two years after a skydiving plane crashed in New Zealand, killing all nine on board, a report has blamed overloading for what was the nation's worst air accident for seventeen years. The modified aircraft was unable to handle a full complement of eight passengers.Five locals and four foreign tourists died when the FU-24 crashed on takeoff at Fox Glacier. Eyewitness accounts said the plane took off earlier than normal, pitching up steeply before falling from a high of about 100m (330ft). It struck the ground nose-first.The report by New Zealand's Transport Accident Investigation Commission (TAIC), after an investigation led by Ian McClelland, says the aircraft did not accumulate sufficient airspeed before it took off. It further notes that the plane's centre of gravity was far to the rear. The plane had been converted three months prior from an agricultural aircraft and this had not been performed well, according to the TAIC.TAIC go on to say the Civil Aviation Authority failed to spot paperwork discrepencies when approving the modified aircraft. "As a result the aeroplane was being flown outside its loading limits every time it carried a full load of eight parachutists," said the report. It was "an accident waiting to happen".Graeme Harris, the nation's head of civil aviation, described weight checks as "basic airmanship, taught to every student pilot" and noted all pilots are responsible for conducting them. "It is very sad that a critical element of pre-flight planning, which should be second nature to any pilot, appears to have been done so poorly. This is an accident that no pilot should ever forget."The local victims were Adam Bennett, 47, Michael Suter, 32, Christopher McDonald, 62, and Rodney Miller, 55, who were professional skydivers, and pilot Chaminda Senadhira, 33. The foreign victims were Irishman Patrick Byrne, 26, Australian Glen Bourke, 18, German Annita Kirsten, 23, and Briton Brad Coker, 24.Chris Coker, Brad Coker's father, has urged NZ Prime Minister John Key to increase regulation. The local Civil Aviation Authority has already decreed no FU-24 should carry more than six individually weighed passengers as a result of the crash, and last year introduced a law aimed at tightening up adventure flight regulation. The stricter rules came into effect earlier this month.The TAIC report reminded pilots to calculate weights individually for each aircraft, as even two planes of the same model can differ. It further notes aircraft modification is "a safety-critical process that must be done in strict accordance with rules and guidelines and with appropriate regulatory oversight".Danville, California — The California-based Engligh language tracker, Global Language Monitor, released its 2005 list of most confusing - yet frequently cited - high tech buzzwords to be "HTTP," "Voice Over IP" (VoIP), and "Megapixel." Closely following were "Plasma," "Robust," "WORM" and "Emoticon."  In early March, the group used a predictive index computer algorithm to track specific words and phrases in the media and on the Internet.  They were tracked in relation to frequency, contextual usage and appearance in global media outlets.The Global Language Monitor claims to analyze and catalogue trends in word usage and word choices, focusing on the linguistic impact on various cultures.  The GLM says it relies upon a global network of volunteer linguists, professional wordsmiths and other bibliophiles to monitor the trends in the evolution and demise of world languages.Residents of a Leeds, England neighbourhood have requested help from a council because their neighbourhood is plagued by crime, overcrowding, and community tensions. Leeds City Council received a request for help from residents of Hyde Park, who said they were worried about the increasing level of anti-social behavior and worsening community relations. A report will be unveiled on Wednesday by a council delegation, highlighting the problems in the area. "The people living in Hyde Park come from widely different population groups... these groups have very different customs, needs and living styles and this can provoke high levels of tension in the area," the delegation said. The council claims that because of the 28 per cent ethnic minority population and the 40,000 students living in the neighbourhood, there are tensions between residents. They added, however, that they are actively encouraging people to work together, citing a multi-faith forum, a cricket competition and activities which bring old and young together. The report says that the council are trying to build relationships between Muslims and police, something which they said is "particularly important after the area's connection to the London bombings on 7th July 2005." A local newspaper reported that "the Shebab project introduces young Muslims to role models from sport and culture and also runs scholars' talks to counter extremist ideologies."Crime has increased by 7% in the past year in Hyde Park, and residents noted that anti-social behaviour was getting worse. The council said that an anti-burglary task force had helped to reduce the number of thefts from homes. Residents complained that there was a lack of pride in the area, and at the end of the academic year in the summer, large piles of rubbish were left in streets, yards and alleyways. The report adds that the council operates a recycling scheme aimed towards teenagers, and that rubbish collections have increased.The Guardian reported on Wednesday that campaigners are attempting to "take control of a derelict school building and transform it into a community hub are appealing for sponsors and partners in a bid to turn their dreams into reality." They say that the unused building, owned by the council, could be used for meetings and events. A volunteer group of residents have been working on a business plan, and have gained support from local businesses to create "a vision of an open, accessible and valuable resource for all." A member of the commitee, however, said he was "frustrated" with the council's attitude towards the plans. "The RPCC is slightly frustrated with certain communication issues that we've had with the council, but we're working with them and hoping to gain further assistance going forward," he said. "It's a shame that certain setbacks could have been avoided."The deputation added that "a major factor in Hyde Park's suffering is its high level of population density", which they conceded is something they are unable to change. The council responded to complaints that streets are "cheap and unhealthy takeaways, letting agents and boarded-up shop fronts," by saying that Hyde Park Corner and Headingley are, according to the Yorkshire Post, "thriving shopping areas and work had taken place to ensure a good mix of outlets."The report concludes: "The council acknowledges that because of the very particular circumstances which exist in the neighbourhood, Hyde Park faces difficult challenges which affect the quality of life of residents and that 'normal' service levels may not be sufficient to tackle some of these. The council will do more to enable local people to influence how services work and how local problems are tackled. Local community and voluntary groups will be invited to play an active role."Spectators flocked to the Canadian Warplane Heritage Museum, beside the John C. Munro Airport in Hamilton, Ontario on Sunday to see restored Canadian warplanes in the sky as part of the annual FlyFest airshow.Included among the day's attractions, was one of two remaining flight-worthy Avro Lancasters, which was open to visitors to climb into the cockpit for a small fee. Other craft included a Messerschmitt 109, B-25 Mitchell and PBY Canso. The non-profit museum is dedicated to restoring old Canadian warplanes from the past 75 years. Normally stored in the museum's display rooms, some of the planes make it out to airshows when finances allow. They were flown all day from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. EST.Founder of the Victory Christian Centre, Billy Joe Daugherty died aged 57 on Sunday 4:40 am. This followed a short battle with lymphoma. The death was announced by church officials during morning services that day. Adam Sanders, Daugherty’s son-in-law spoke about his final hours during the morning services saying, "We don’t sorrow as the world sorrows, as one without hope [...] We celebrate his life, but at the same time there is sorrow, there is grieving". His other son-in-law, Caleb Wehrli, spoke emotionally about how the family worshipped up until the end. The Victory Christian Centre is one of the largest churches in Oklahoma with around seventeen thousand members.Born in Tulsa, Oklahoma Daugherty also founded the Christian Centre in Tulsa and the Victory Bible Institute. His work included involvement with a missionary training centre which has sent over one thousand missionaries to several countries around the world. Author, with his wife, of several books he also appeared in his own TV show, Victory in Jesus. Daugherty made national news in 2005 when punched at an altar call. The attack required two stitches, but Daugherty chose not to press charges despite visiting his assailant in jail where the inmate showed no remorse; Daugherty penned a book about this incident in his life.The memorial service is planned for the 30th of this month.Actor Richard Dean Anderson, former lead for the television show Stargate SG-1, will appear in the second of the two DVD movies based on the program, Stargate: Continuum.Anderson will start filming for the movie later this month in the Arctic, with considerable involvement from the U.S. Navy, along with co-stars, Amanda Tapping, and Ben Browder. Filming for the first DVD movie, Stargate: The Ark of Truth, will begin on May 22.Richard Desmond, the owner of Britain's Channel 5, will reportedly sell the channel to US media company Viacom for an estimated £450m. Viacom also owns TV channels Comedy Central, MTV, and Nickelodeon.Desmond's Northern & Shell — which also owns the Daily Express and Daily Star newspapers — bought Channel 5 from the German broadcaster RTL in 2010 for £103.5m. Desmond has made the channel profitable returning £26m of profits in the first half of 2013. The channel has cut costs, improved its ad sales operation, and acquired the rights for the reality show Big Brother until the end of 2014.BT, ITV, and Channel 4 have contemplated purchasing the network but declined. Last month, Discovery Communications withdrew a bid reportedly worth between £250m and £300m.Rick Astley is preparing for a 2010 80's music tour. Astley will be heading a revival concert at the opening of the Open Air Theatre of Scarborough on July 31 with artists such as Boy George, Paul Young and Kid Creole and the Coconut. Other acts are Nik Kershaw, Midge Ure, Heaven 17, T'Pau, Hazel O'Connor and Toyah. All of them have scored a combined total of 70 Top Ten Hits. There will be at least four more tour dates according to Rick Astley's website.Additionally, Rick Astley's website announced last Sunday the re-release of his first two albums, Whenever You Need Somebody and Hold Me in Your Arms, in Deluxe Editions. The albums will retail for £7.99. The publishing company, Edsel Records, said that the album will feature a number of remixes of Astley, including a never-released before Hold Me in Your Arms remix called Hold Me in Your Prayers. The Deluxe albums will contain also the song When You Gonna, a song that was the first single by Astley, in collaboration with Lisa Carter. Astley's website is promoting the albums with a competition in which, competitors have to answer a question about the British singer.Rick Astley became famous in the eighties when his first single, Never Gonna Give You Up, achieved number one on the United Kingdom and United States charts. Subsequently he released several other successful singles including Whenever You Need Somebody, Together Forever. He retired from music in 1993, after releasing his album, Body and Soul. Astley did a comeback in 2001, with the release of Keep It Turned On, and in 2005, Portrait. In 2007, Rick Astley unexpectedly became famous on the Internet, when the rickrolling internet meme was born. In 2008 and 2009, he took part in the nostalgia tour, Here & Now, visiting countries such as the Philipines, Chile and the Dominican Republic.The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has selected Rio de Janeiro, Brazil to host the 2016 Summer Olympics.  IOC President Jacques Rogge made the announcement Friday in an IOC meeting in Copenhagen, Denmark on Friday.The other three contestants, Chicago, Madrid, and Tokyo, were eliminated in earlier rounds of voting.  Chicago was the first candidate city eliminated in voting, with Tokyo being dropped in the second round.  Rio de Janeiro was left to compete with Madrid.Rogge said that Rio de Janeiro had "a very strong technical bid, built upon a vision of the Games being a celebration of the athletes and sport, as well as providing the opportunity for the city, region and country to deliver their broader long-term aspirations for the future." He added that "this call to 'live your passion' clearly struck a chord with my fellow members, and we now look forward to seeing Rio de Janeiro staging the first Olympic Games on the continent of South America.""Rio is ready. Give us this chance and you will not regret it," Brazil's president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva had told the committee before the vote. "Rio will deliver an unforgettable Games. You will see for yourselves the passion, the energy and the creativity of the Brazilian people." "All those people who thought we had no ability to govern this country will now learn that we can host the Olympics," Lula had said after the winning city was named. "There is a lot of work ahead of us and we will start working early. The Brazilian people are good and generous and the country deserves it."Rioting, theft, vandalism and other acts of violence are currently occurring in various cities throughout England. There is a substantial rioting problem, primarily in the capital of London, which has spread to the cities of Birmingham, Bristol, Liverpool and Nottingham.David Cameron, the current UK Prime Minister, condemned the violent acts, referring to them as "sickening", proclaiming that those involving themselves the incident "will feel the full force of the law". At least 563 individuals have been arrested in relation to these incidents. He also reported that Parliament is to be recalled this Thursday. The number of police officers in London tonight is to be increased from six thousand to sixteen thousand, the Prime Minister said, with any pre-arranged leave being abandoned.The riots were sparked by the fatal shooting by police of 29-year-old Mark Duggan on Thursday in Tottenham, during the planned arrest of Duggan as part of anti-gun unit Operation Trident. Reports from the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) claimed that Duggan had been shot in retaliation, however the IPCC later admitted there is no evidence that Duggan shot at the police. On Sunday, a peaceful protest in Tottenham held by Duggan's family and friends sparked a series of disturbances in the area, which quickly became a violent riot, with youths from the area looting and clashing with Police.For three consecutive days, London has experienced what the Metropolitan Police have referred to as "copycat criminal activity". Hundreds of arrests have now occurred, with 105 individuals having been charged for a variety of crimes. The Metropolitan Police are now contemplating the concept of using plastic bullets as a disciplinary method within the riots. As of yet, English police have never used such a weapon in this context.In a tribute to Gadhimai, a Hindu goddess of power, a Nepalese festival began today with the mass sacrifice of 20,000 buffalo in the village of Bariyapur. Shortly after, 300,000 birds, sheep and goats were similarly ritually slaughtered.It is estimated as many as 750,000 people travelled from India, which recently banned similar mass-sacrifices, to make up the majority of the festival's estimated one million attendees. Member of Parliament Shiv Chandra Kushwaha skipped Tuesday's legislative meeting, saying that the festival had more importance as a religious celebration.Although animal rights groups have condemned the ceremony as cruel, the Nepalese government has ignored requests to cancel the festival, held once every five years. Last year, the government banned a similar slaughter during the festival of Yanya Punhi, and was greeted with angry protests.The meat is taken to local villages, who host large feasts for those in attendance, as it is believed to ward off evil.According to The Japan Times, the 20-year-old Japanese delegate Riyo Mori was crowned as the 56th Miss Universe, in a ceremony held at Mexico City on May 28 .Riyo, the new Miss Universe titleholder, is from Shizuoka, Japan. She had stayed in Canada to study ballet while in  high-school.After Riyo returned to her country, she became to an instructor of a dance school.Riyo Mori achieved the brilliant feat of winning this beauty contest as Japanese after 48 years' absence.Incidentally, preceded runner-up is Kurara Chibana.Singer Robbie Williams has rejoined and recorded a new album with British musical group Take That, having departed from the group in 1995. The four other members of Take That are Gary Barlow, Howard Donald, Jason Orange and Mark Owen.Robbie Williams decided to leave Take That in 1995 to begin a solo music career; the group subsequently disbanded in 1996. In 2005, Take That was reformed as a four-piece band. Williams announced his return to Take That in November 2009.The last album the group released before the disbanding was entitled "Nobody Else", which was released in 1995. A single entitled "Shame", sung by Robbie Williams and Gary Barlow, is expected to be released on October 4, 2010. The new album from Take That, which has now been recorded, is anticipated to be available from November 2010. All five members of Take That have composed songs for the album, which has currently not yet been given a title and will be issued by Polydor Records.Take That member Mark Owen stated: "Getting the five of us to be in a room together, although always a dream, never actually seemed like becoming a reality. Now the reality of the five of us making a record together feels like a dream. It's been an absolute delight spending time with Rob again. But I'm still a better footballer." Jason Orange commented that he is "over the moon that Robbie's back with us, however long it lasts. I just want to enjoy our time with him. Life is beautifully strange sometimes." Robbie Williams stated that he gets "embarrassingly excited when the five of us are in a room."American art director and production designer Robert F. Boyle was honoured last night at the Academy Awards.Hired as an extra in films during the Great Depression, the young architect became a draftsman at Paramount Studios, moving on to become a sketch artist and assistant art director, before becoming a full-fledged art director in the early 1940s, at Universal Studios.His credits include Alfred Hitchcock films Saboteur (1942), North by Northwest (1959), and The Birds (1963). Other films to his credit include The Thomas Crown Affair (1968), Gaily, Gaily (1969), Fiddler on the Roof (1971), and The Shootist (1976).The Oscar-nominated documentary short The Man on Lincoln's Nose (2000) chronicles his career, which includes the 1997 Art Directors Guild's Lifetime Achievement Award and four Oscar nominations.Pole Robert Kubica won the FIA Formula One 2008 Grand Prix du Canada at Circuit Gilles Villeneuve, Ile Notre Dame, Montreal, Canada. He and his teammate Nick Heidfeld made a double for BMW Sauber team for the first time in history of this sport.Peter Sauber first started building sport cars in 1970. His team made it's Formula-1 debut in 1993. The team was handed over to BMW after 2005 and now it's team principal is Mario Theissen.Nick Heidfeld also came second in the previous year race won by Lewis Hamilton. It was a race when Kubica suffered a violent crash. David Coulthard was the best of Renault-engined cars finishing third for Red Bull.The race was thrilled after Adrian Sutil suffered his Force India car failure and caused a safety car to appear. This happened right before the scheduled first pit-stops and 5 drivers who were in the lead rushed to refuel themselves after the pit lane became open. Still, the pit lane exit remained closed and Robert Kubica with Kimi Räikkönen (Ferrari) stopped in front of the red sign. But Lewis Hamilton did not. He crashed hard into the back of Räikkönen and jammed the exit for the drivers behind. This cleared the cards for BMW team to win the race.The pace car also gave the lucky chance for Toyota drivers, who were not very competitive in qualifying on Saturday, starting 11th and 14th. Timo Glock made up 4th after holding Felipe Massa (Ferrari) pushed him from behind. Jarno Trulli could also finished in front of Massa, but Timo braked hard on his teammate and Jarno was forced to let Massa pass him.Rubens Barrichello (Honda) finished 7th. Heikki Kovalainen (Vodafone McLaren Mercedes) pushed hard on Sebastian Vettel but German kept his position and scored 1 point for Toro Rosso.It should be noted that Kubica won the race after he finished second in the previous Monaco GP won by Hamilton. Kubica now leads the drivers' championship with 42 points, chased by Hamilton and Massa with 38 points both, Räikkönen with 35 points and Heidfeld with 28. BMW Sauber now stayed close to Ferrari in constructors' standings with 70 points, gap of 3 to Ferrari. Team McLaren is now a distant third with 53 points.Robert Wilson, the bassist for funk group The Gap Band, has died at the age of 53. Wilson’s death was announced by his manager and publicist, Don Jackson. He died in Los Angeles on Sunday night. The cause of death was announced as a massive heart attack. Born in Tulsa, Wilson formed funk and R&B group The Greenwood, Archer and Pine Street band with his brothers, Charlie and Ronnie.  They later shortened the name to The Gap Band to make it stand out on gig posters.The group had reached success by the time Wilson was 14. Hits by the brothers included "I Don’t Believe You Want to Get Up and Dance (Oops)", "Party Train" and "You Dropped a Bomb on Me", which was later included in the 2004 hit videogame, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.Wilson, who had been touring at the time of his death, returned to his hometown of Tulsa last week.  He told newspaper Tulsa World that he would be headlining the Timeless Music Festival on August 28.  Sources have said that it is likely the festival will become a tribute show to Wilson.Funeral arrangements have remained private and have not been announced.A Pennsylvania church that claims to worship through rock music may hold a limited number of concerts under a recent federal court settlement.In the face of complaints from neighbors about noise and traffic problems, the Fayette County zoning department found in 2005 that the Church of Universal Love and Music was operating a music business instead of a church and must shut down.William Pritts, founder of the Bullskin Township church, sued in 2006 under the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, claiming the ruling infringed on his right to religious freedom.A 12-page court settlement filed in a Pittsburgh federal court allows Pritts to hold six concerts on Friday-through-Sunday weekends, and six additional events on six other Saturdays. However, the music must end by 11:00 p.m. local time on Fridays and Saturdays and 9:00 p.m. on Sundays."The church is very much looking forward to a long future of providing services to the community," Gregory Koerner, Pritts' attorney, told The Herald-Standard.Koerner said events are already planned for May and June 2009.Under the settlement the church must keep sound from the concerts below the ambient sound level at the property line. The agreement also prohibits the illegal use of drugs and alcohol, and nudity is also not allowed. Pritts will have to also hire an independent security staff to oversee the safety at the concerts and he will not be allowed to have any more than 600 automobiles parked on or near the property during the events.The Church of Universal Love and Music gained national attend when a segment about its dispute with the county was featured on Comedy Central's The Daily Show in 2003. During the segment, Pritts said, "God never said you can't party on."The dispute started in 2001, when Pritts filed for a zoning exception to hold concerts at the Bullskin Township site. At the time, he was building an amphitheater stage, not a church, and neighbors and county officials grew concerned when Pritts said the concerts could attract up to 4,000 people, many of whom camp out overnight at the site. Concert attendance totals will have to be limited per the settlement, to no more than 1,500 people per event.Fayette County officials said he only formed the church so he could charge admission under the guise of a "donation" after the county rejected his plans. Koerner insisted Pritts' religious convictions are sincere. The county has been ordered to pay Pritts legal fees which total US$75,000.Chilean filmmaker Rodrigo Ortúzar, known for his film Mujeres Infieles, announced his plans to make a film about the Chilean miners trapped in the 2010 Copiapó mining accident.After it was confirmed the miners were alive, Ortúzar started to work on the project. The movie is to be named Los 33 (English: The 33). "I said to one of my previous investors that if there was just one survivor, this would be a great movie, and well it wasn't one but 33, something that generates the first disgrace or tragedy to have a happy ending," Ortúzar told to Teletrece.Ortúzar is already filming in Copiapó. This footage will be mixed with the dramatization. The movie is to be officially filmed in 2011, and will be released in theatres in 2012.London resident Roland De Wolfe, will take a Euro 554 300 credit boost this week after winning the European Poker Tour (EPT) in Dublin.With a victory at the World Poker Tour (WPT) in Grand Prix de Paris already under his belt, this latest win makes him the first person to be both an EPT and WPT champion."This week I didn't have the luck of the Irish, I had the luck of the whole of Europe", De Wolfe said. "It's an honour to be the first person to win an EPT title and a WPT title when there are so many good players out there. I'm thrilled". The Dublin EPT event brought up a field of 389 players from around the globe, De Wolfe managed to outplay the entire field to gain his champion slice of the Euro 1,847,750 prize pool.Fighting for the top prize or at least a slice of the Euro 1 847 750 prize pool were many international players, and the final table was made up of U.K. players Rob Yong, Gavin Simms, and Nick Slade as well as William Thorson, of Sweden; George McKeever, from Ireland; and Patrick Bueno and David Tavernier, both from France.Some other poker professionals that participate in the event included Simon Trumper, the Hendon Mob, Greg Raymer, Mel Judah, Chris Moneymaker, Andy Black, David Colclough, Tony Guoga. The final rankings were as follows: 1st Roland De Wolfe Euro 554,3002nd  David Tavernier Euro 314,1203rd  William Thorson Euro 184,7804th  Gavin Simms Euro 138,5805th  George McKeever Euro 112,7106th  Rob Yong Euro 88,6907th  Nick Slade Euro 70,2108th  Patrick Bueno Euro 51,740The next EPT will take place in Copenhagen, Denmark, from January 17 to January 20 2007.Registering 5,081,441 views in the past week alone, an international advertisement featuring roller-skating babies has become a YouTube sensation. French and US versions of the advert for Evian mineral water have also seen 500,000 and 1.5 million visitor hits respectively."It's one of the cutest things I've ever seen," said one YouTube viewer. Reviewer Saul Relative says, "You'll find yourself watching this feel good video commercial again and again."The babies roller-skate to a remix of The Sugarhill Gang's top 40 hip hop single Rapper's Delight.Euro RSCG began the web video campaign on Friday, July 3.  The advertisement has been aired on television in France, Belgium, and Canada.  "It's working so well virally that plans for TV in the UK are still under review," said an Evian representative.Rolling Stone, one of the music industry's foremost publications, has found itself reporting false news gleaned from a Wikipedia article.The online edition of the magazine's Rock & Roll Daily released an article entitled "Halle Berry Set to Ruin Reputation..." on December 11, reporting on the news that the actor had announced her intentions to release a musical album.The story was quickly picked up by The Washington Post, All Headline News, and other news agencies eager to report on the Academy Award-winning actress' foray into the musical world.The only trouble is, according to one of the album's alleged producers, Scott Storch, there is no such album...and he definitely hasn't produced three songs for it.A Wikipedia editor known only as "Ciii" registered on the site on December 1, and then quietly updated the actress' article on the free encyclopaedia, to include mention of a fictitious interview allegedly given in the December issue of Ebony magazine, in which Berry allegedly was quoted saying "I've always loved to sing and this album will show people that I can do more than act."A new song by the British rock band The Rolling Stones titled "Sweet Neo Con" has been stirring a controversy over its lyrics, which are highly critical of the Bush administration."You call yourself a Christian, I call you a hypocrite" is among the verses in "Sweet Neo Con", according to the Magazine Newsweek.  Lead singer Mick Jagger commented on the song, saying "It is certainly very critical of certain policies of the administration, but so what! Lots of people are critical." Jagger, however, denies the criticism is directed at Bush.The song is scheduled for release September 5 on a CD entitled "A Bigger Bang". Jagger told music critic Jude Cole of ExtraTV, "You can't make rock records without a lot of vitality." The band is scheduled to start a tour in the United States, starting in Boston, Massachusetts on August 21.It has now emerged that in the past four to five years, approximately thirty thousand silver Roman coins were discovered in the city of Bath, in Somerset, England.Archaeologists discovered the coins, which are thought to date back to the year 270, on the site of a new hotel on Beau Street in the city as work was underway 150 metres away from the Roman Baths. The hoard, named as the Beau Street Hoard, is understood to be the fifth largest ever uncovered in the United Kingdom and the greatest one found at a Roman town in the country.Speaking on behalf of Roman Baths, Stephen Clews stated: "We've put in a request for a formal valuation and then hope to buy the coins to display them at the baths. At the time there was a lot of unrest in the Roman Empire so there may be some explanation for why the coins were hidden away." This discovery was "unusual as it was discovered by professional archaeologists as opposed to an amateur using a metal detector," according to Clews.The discovered coins were found to be in a large block joined together, increasing the difficulty of establishing what exact kind of coins these are, as well as the total number of them. The hoard has been sent to the British Museum in the capital London where conservators are anticipated to take twelve months or more to analyse the coins.The Roman Baths is now attempting to accumulate £150,000 (€180,000 or US$237,000) in funding so as to allow them to acquire the coins and place them on display.Romania has been chosen to host the Junior Eurovision Song Contest in 2006, according to a press release by the country's government-funded broadcaster, TVR. According to the network, the Junior Eurovision will be held in Bucharest in November 2006, where it will be organised in a venue with a capacity of more than 6,000 seats. Romania's successful bid has been confirmed by Svante Stockselius from the European Broadcasting Union.The three countries shortlisted for the Junior Eurovision 2006 were Romania, Croatia, and the Netherlands. On October 4, however, it was announced that TVR had won the bidding process and the event would be held in Romania. The Junior Eurovision 2006 is the first Eurovision event to be held in Romania, and comes after Romania's best ever result in the Eurovision Song Contest 2005, where it was ranked third.The event will be co-financed by TVR and the European Broadcasting Union, with approximately 3.4 million Romanian lei (€1 million) being funded by the EBU.The Junior Eurovision Song Contest was founded in 2003 and is open to constentants from across Europe ranging from eight to fifteen years of age. The 2005 event will be held on November 26 in Hasselt, Belgium, and will be attended by contestants from 17 countries, including Romania.Several prominent Romanian artists and celebrities will gather at the Radio Hall in Bucharest on Sunday, January 23, to raise money for the victims of the catastrophic Indian Ocean tsunami of December 26, 2004. In an event titled Romanian Artists in Support of Asia, organised by The Reporter Foundation of Romania, artists will auction off their works, as well as personal objects, with all proceeds being donated to the relief efforts for the tsunami victims.Media celebrities such as the soprano Felicia Filip and singers Angela Similea and Dida Dragan will also be participating, as well as Maia Morgenstern, known internationally for her role in the film The Passion of the Christ. All ambassadors accredited in Bucharest, as well as political personalities, have been invited to participate.Romanian Artists in Support of Asia is the second major public event organised in Romania to support the victims of the recent Indian Ocean disaster. On Sunday, January 16, the Romanian public raised the equivalent of 395,000 euro in a telethon, while the Romanian Government pledged 150,000 euro for the relief effort.The artistic event is also part of a campaign by the Bucharest City Hall that seeks to relaunch the image of the Romanian capital as a creative and colourful metropolis. The city will be the first in southeastern Europe to host CowParade, the world's largest public art event, between June and August this year.The Romanian band Sarmalele Reci have decided to join the bandwagon of aid toward the victims of the Indian Ocean tsunami by holding a concert in Bucharest on Sunday, January 23. The concert will be held at the Palace Hall. The band will donate all of the proceeds from the concert to the tsunami relief effort. Soloist Zoli Andras said that, "This is a good exercise for the Western man who lives in a society with a much higher living standard than in many regions of Asia." The aim of the band in this concert is "to take [people] out of their daily selfishness and make them think a little about their fellows in Asia who were struck by fate."In the month of January, Romanians have organised a wide series of events, many of them featuring celebrities, to raise funds for the victims of the tsunami. A telethon was organised last Sunday, January 16, and, on the same Sunday as the Sarmalele Reci concert, Romanian artists will auction off their works to raise money for the disaster victims. The concert is part of a campaign by Televiziunea Română, the Romanian national broadcaster, to involve the Romanian public in the fundraising effort.On the morning of Monday, January 2, 2006, the 117th Tournament of Roses Rose Parade marched through Pasadena, California in only the tenth occurrence of rain on the morning of the parade.  Fifty mile-an-hour winds buffeted the crowds of spectators for hours before and during the festivities.Many spectators had purchased grandstand tickets for $50 or more only to find the aluminum benches cold and exposed to the winds.  Umbrellas were ubiquitus though difficult to use effectively in the storm-like conditions.  Virtually anyone present for more than an hour had a poncho of some sort.  Those who partook in the traditional campout to claim free seating on the street often left only a single person to stoically wait out the storm until morning, most preferring to sleep in dryer conditions.  Crowds were smaller than normal.Vendors fared somewhat differently, depending on what they sold.  Sales of hot food and drinks, umbrellas, ponchos, and tarps were up while sales of pre-packaged snacks and programs were down.  Many street vendors left once sales or inventory dried up (figuritively speaking).Carvings on the 600 hundred year old Rosslyn Chapel in Scotland represent a coded form of a musical score, the father-and-son team of  Tommy J. Mitchell, 75 and Stuart Mitchell, 41, say."[The] Rosslyn Chapel holds a musical mystery in its architecture and design. At one end of the chapel, on the ceiling are 4 cross-sections of arches containing elaborate symbolic designs on each array of cubes (in actual fact they are rectangles mostly). The 'cubes' are attached to the arches in a musically sequential way. And to confirm this, at the ends of each arch there is an angel playing a musical instrument of a different kind. After 27 years of study and research by [Stuart's father Thomas J. Mitchell], we believe he has found the pitches and tonality that match the symbols on each cube, revealing its melodic and harmonic progressions," said T. Mitchell on a statement posted on his website.The musical score has been "frozen" in the chapel for 600 years. Inside the chapel, there are 13 angels T. Mitchell calls the "orchestra of angels," which are carved into the chapel's arches and who appear to be musicians. Surrounding the angels are 213 geometric symbols that were found to resemble sound waves at different pitches. After decoding all the symbols to match the soundwaves, they found the song which researchers say is part of the "cymatics" music system, also known as the "Chladni patterns" which is the study of wave phenomena associated with the physical patterns produced through the interaction of sound waves in a medium."It is what we could call 'frozen music', a little like cryogenics. The music has been frozen in time by symbolism, it was only a matter of time before the symbolism began to 'thaw out' and begin to make sense to scientific and musical perception," said T. Mitchell.Mitchell describes the song as sounding like a celtic melody or a nursery rhyme."The unusual combination of instruments, their dynamics, tunings and textures re-create a sound long forgotten from the past. The melodies are simple but harmonically develops and unfolds in the most simplistic but charming way. The sequential arrangement of the cubes at many times is a series of repeated notes/symbols signifying a more functional than aesthetic sense to the music. Sometimes it sounds a bit like a 'nursery rhyme' and there is also a feeling of a 'Celtic air' about the music," added Mitchell's statement.The Mitchells have added words from a contemporary hymn to the music and have named the composition The Rosslyn Motet, which is performed by the Tallis Chamber Choir and produced by Stuart Mitchell. It is currently available on CD and is opening in a world premier concert on May 18 which will be performed inside the Rosslyn Chapel.The chapel has seen a rise in visitors, tourists, and researchers since it was featured in the book and movie The Da Vinci Code.The UK's Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge gave birth yesterday to a baby girl, and Kensington Palace announced, "Her Royal Highness the Duchess of Cambridge was safely delivered of a daughter at 8:34 am."The announcement also said Catherine and the baby are "doing well."  The daughter of the royal couple was said to weigh 8lbs 3oz. Earlier in the day Catherine was admitted in labour into the Lindo Wing of St Mary's Hospital in London. Kensington Palace released a statement that the Duchess went to the hospital by car and was admitted into Saint Mary's at 6am local time.The baby is the fourth in line to the throne. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott stated, "On behalf of all Australians, Margie and I extend to the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge congratulations on the birth of a daughter [...] we wish the young Princess a long and happy life." UK Prime Minister David Cameron sent well wishes earlier via Twitter, saying, "The whole country will wish her well." Prince George's birth also took place in Saint Mary's in 2013, and Prince William's in 1982. Obstetrician Guy Thorpe-Beeston, along with Alan Farthing, surgeon gynaecologist to Queen Elizabeth II, were present for the second royal birth. The announcement of the birth also said, "The Queen, The Duke of Edinburgh, The Prince of Wales, The Duchess of Cornwall, Prince Harry, and members of both families have been informed and are delighted with the news."The Association of Latin Entertainment Critics of New York published Thursday and updated yesterday, at its official websites, a press release condemning Spanish RTVE's United States correspondent and bureau chief Almudena Ariza, asking RTVE's Ethics Department to "dismiss the correspondent and remove the correspondent from the US". The journalistic association said Ariza made "offensive insults and false accusations" against Spanish American filmmaker Artur Balder.The New York-based journalistic association founded in 1967 is the oldest Latin press association in the United States. The press release is introduced by the president and founding member of the journalistic association, Fernando Campos, who was honored last month at his homeland the Dominican Republic with the Award of Journalistic Merit by Acroarte, the Association of Art Critics of the Dominican Republic.According to the journalistic association, Ariza "sought directly to cause the greatest moral damages, based on the falsehood that the film and research on 'Little Spain' did not exist." Regarding the film Little Spain directed by Artur Balder, they note it is now available on DVD.The journalistic association quote Ariza saying she "never would inform about the (director's) films, if case they would exist" to the Spanish audience. RTVE's potential audience is Spanish and Latin American, and is financially supported by Spanish taxpayers.US correspondent Almudena Ariza reportedly gets a gross annual salary of almost 200,000 euros (around US$200,000), well above the average salary of RTVE's workers.In Ireland, RTÉ's new "Rip Off Republic" TV series has attracted a record audience of 667,000 for its second show, making it one of Ireland's top TV programs. The second show broadcast on Monday 15th August captured 50.5% of all TV viewers in Ireland.The series which contains four shows broadcast from Dublin City University's "Helix" centre, aims to expose over pricing and the exploitation of consumers in Ireland. Hosted by financial advisor Eddie Hobbs, the show has attracted huge media commentry, particularly as it has attracted the attention of the governments main party, Fianna Fail. The main argument against the show has been that it generalises issues and makes exaggerated claims - for example it claimed that restaurants make a 300%+ profit on a typical bottle of wine, leading the viewer to believe that all businesses are making such a profit. This claim has since come under attack by restaurant owners nationwide. Other arguments against the show have stated that while inflation is less than 3%, wage growth is over 6% meaning people are still better off.The third show will be broadcast on 29th August at 9.30pm on RTÉ One. It will focus on the transport sector in Ireland.File:Britney-Spears082.jpgFile:Oscar the grouch at smithsonian.jpgBritney Spears will not appear on the legendary American children's program Sesame Street.When contacted today, Sesame Workshop press representative Ray Hammerman replied that the rumours were, "not true, there are no plans to have her on as a guest."Sesame Workshop Vice President of Corporate Communications Ellen Lewis backed up this statement, adding that the show is "not in production until Feb. 2008".Published reports in British tabloid newspaper The Daily Star suggested Spears was to improve her image by appearing on the show. She was to perform a "dumbed-down" version of her hit single "Toxic", with Oscar the Grouch, a character that lives in a trash can. "Toxic" was released in 2003.Spears faces losing complete custody of sons two-year-old Sean Preston and one-year-old Jayden James.The Daily Star did not respond to Wikinews about their reasoning for the story.Sesame Street has featured well over 300 celebrity guest stars in its 38 seasons.The most recent season saw guests Alec Baldwin, Tyra Banks, James Blunt, Miri Ben-Ari, Richard Belzer, Chris Brown, Anderson Cooper, Ann Curry, Ellen DeGeneres, Tina Fey, Charles Gibson, Cuba Gooding, Jr., Mariska Hargitay, Ice T, Matt Lauer, Fred Newman, players of The New York Jets, Howie Mandel, Christopher Meloni, Conan O'Brien, Sarah Jessica Parker, Ahmad Rashād, Rachael Ray, Al Roker, Diane Sawyer, Jon Stewart, Sugarland, Meredith Vieira, and Brian Williams.Internet users, as well as editors making edits on Wikinews and Wikipedia, have been the victims of a recent hoax that talk show host Oprah Winfrey has been found dead in her Chicago, Illinois home. The rumors are considered to be a hoax, connected with the online group known as Anonymous. Other reports say that the website 4chan.org is responsible for starting the rumor which began to spread quickly over the Internet.Winfrey is set to appear on tonight's Emmy Awards ceremony broadcast.The rumors started after a statement Winfrey made on a recent show, defending a United States Senate bill against pedophiles and child rapists saying a pedophile group has "over 9,000 penises" harming children. She was referring to a comment left on her website by an individual affiliated with Anonymous who was claiming to be a pedophile. Wikinews can confirm through anonymous sources that the rumor was started by the group Anonymous and the website 4chan.According to an edit made by Camalex, a registered user on Wikipedia, Winfrey was found dead "in her Chicago home early Saturday morning". It was followed by a source linking to a Digg.com article, which links to oprahsdeath, a blog website regarding her alleged death. The first edit to her Wikipedia article, which was posted by an anonymous user, stated that Winfrey was "lying dead on her bed" when a family member found her. According to the edit, she had been suffering chest pains for several days, but concealed the discomfort.According to the oprahsdeath blog, Winfrey was found dead in her home at 8:21 a.m. on Saturday morning. Winfrey "appeared to have a bloody area around her eye, a bullet wound in her stomach and some cuts and bruises up and down her body." The post also says the suspect was "beaten" and "shot by a handgun". Shortly after the Wikipedia edit, an anonymous user with the IP address, 24.109.236.254 on Wikinews, added an edit to the Newsroom that she had been "found dead".On Digg users posted links to screen shots of websites allegedly carrying the news of her death via an alleged Associated Press report. Other Digg users left comments claiming to have seen it on their local news stations. Another screen shot apparently shows a BBC News article on her death which states that police released the claims.Despite the reports, there were no other news agencies covering Winfrey's alleged death which had lead many to believe the reports to be a hoax. A user commented on the Reddit.com website that "there are over 9000 reporters currently converging on Chicago". According to Encyclopedia Dramatica, the term "Over 9000!" has been known to refer to an internet 'meme' which is derived from an Japanese television show called Dragon Ball Z and was often used to exaggerate the numbers of protesters attending recent anti-Scientology rallies.The Post Chronicle state that the reports are nothing more than a hoax created by members of the internet website 4chan.org. According to the Post's report who quote the 4chan, they are vowing to create "joker-like chaos" for at least the "next week"."Let us take control, create "Joker-Like" chaos, this week has been a cute start, but I believe we can do more, much more. We are the new world order. The Illuminati are like children compared to our stature. To put it simply, my point is, Kill the Oprah," stated the Chronicle.A video posted on YouTube which shows a broadcast of Winfrey's show, shows her talking about the United States senate bill 1738 which is aimed at establishing "a Special Counsel for Child Exploitation Prevention and Interdiction within the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, to improve the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force, to increase resources for regional computer forensic labs, and to make other improvements to increase the ability of law enforcement agencies to investigate and prosecute predators." The bill is sponsored by 2008 vice presidential hopeful Joe Biden, Barack Obama's running mate. Near the end of Winfrey's statement on the bill, she states that on her message board on her show's website, someone claims to be "part of a known pedophile network.""[He] doesn't forgive. [He] doesn't forget. His group has over 9,000 penises, and they are all raping children," stated Winfrey. "I want you to know they are organized, and they have systematic ways of hurting children". 'We don't forgive, we don't forget' is a phrase common among the group Anonymous. 4chan has claimed responsibility for the post, and in return allegedly began to spread the rumor of Winfrey's death.One individual who claims to be part of the hoax, tells Wikinews that it "was fun as hell [spending] all day /b/ [4chan] photoshopping screenshots of news stories. She got what she deserved. She called anonymous a bunch of pedophiles. Believed a troll on her message boards".Wikinews has contacted The Oprah Winfrey Show to get a statement on the incident, but has yet to receive a response.The group Anonymous has claimed responsibility for several pranks, or hacks against famous people in recent days. Hackers first started by hacking into Sarah Palin's Yahoo e-mail account and the information contained in it was posted to Wikileaks.org. After the incident, FOX News commentator Bill O'Reilly made comments against Wikileaks and other press agencies who posted the material, which was met with retaliation by hackers who broke into his website, BillO'Reilly.com.Few artists ever penetrate the subconscious level of American culture the way RuPaul Andre Charles did with the 1993 album Supermodel of the World.  It was groundbreaking not only because in the midst of the Grunge phenomenon did Charles have a dance hit on MTV, but because he did it as RuPaul, formerly known as Starbooty, a supermodel drag queen with a message: love everyone.  A duet with Elton John, an endorsement deal with MAC cosmetics, an eponymous talk show on VH-1 and roles in film propelled RuPaul into the new millennium.  In July, RuPaul's movie Starrbooty  began playing at film festivals and it is set to be released on DVD October 31st.  Wikinews reporter David Shankbone recently spoke with RuPaul by telephone in Los Angeles, where she is to appear on stage for DIVAS Simply Singing!, a benefit for HIV-AIDS.  DS:  How are you doing?RP:  Everything is great.  I just settled into my new hotel room in downtown Los Angeles. I have never stayed downtown, so I wanted to try it out.  L.A. is one of those traditional big cities where nobody goes downtown, but they are trying to change that.DS:  How do you like Los Angeles?RP:  I love L.A.  I’m from San Diego, and I lived here for six years.  It took me four years to fall in love with it and then those last two years I had fallen head over heels in love with it.  Where are you from?DS:  Me?  I’m from all over.  I have lived in 17 cities, six states and three countries.RP:  Where were you when you were 15?DS:  Georgia, in a small town at the bottom of Fulton County called Palmetto.RP:  When I was in Georgia I went to South Fulton Technical School.  The last high school I ever went to was...actually, I don’t remember the name of it.DS:  Do you miss Atlanta?RP:  I miss the Atlanta that I lived in.  That Atlanta is long gone.  It’s like a childhood friend who underwent head to toe plastic surgery and who I don’t recognize anymore.  It’s not that I don’t like it; I do like it.   It’s just not the Atlanta that I grew up with.  It looks different because it went through that boomtown phase and so it has been transient.  What made Georgia Georgia to me is gone.  The last time I stayed in a hotel there my room was overlooking a construction site, and I realized the building that was torn down was a building that I had seen get built.  And it had been torn down to build a new building.  It was something you don’t expect to see in your lifetime.DS:  What did that signify to you?RP:  What it showed me is that the mentality in Atlanta is that much of their history means nothing.  For so many years they did a good job preserving.   Don’t get me wrong, I’m not a preservationist.  It’s just an interesting observation.DS:  In 2004 when you released your third album, Red Hot, it received a good deal of play in the clubs and on dance radio, but very little press coverage.  On your blog you discussed how you felt betrayed by the entertainment industry and, in particular, the gay press.  What happened?RP:  Well, betrayed might be the wrong word.  ‘Betrayed’ alludes to an idea that there was some kind of a promise made to me, and there never was.  More so, I was disappointed.  I don’t feel like it was a betrayal.  Nobody promises anything in show business and you understand that from day one.But, I don’t know what happened.  It seemed I couldn’t get press on my album unless I was willing to play into the role that the mainstream press has assigned to gay people, which is as servants of straight ideals.DS:  Do you mean as court jesters?RP:  Not court jesters, because that also plays into that mentality.  We as humans find it easy to categorize people so that we know how to feel comfortable with them; so that we don’t feel threatened.  If someone falls outside of that categorization, we feel threatened and we search our psyche to put them into a category that we feel comfortable with.  The mainstream media and the gay press find it hard to accept me as...just...DS:  Everything you are?RP:  Everything that I am.DS:  It seems like years ago, and my recollection might be fuzzy, but it seems like I read a mainstream media piece that talked about how you wanted to break out of the RuPaul 'character' and be seen as more than just RuPaul.RP:  Well, RuPaul is my real name and that’s who I am and who I have always been.  There’s the product RuPaul that I have sold in business.  Does the product feel like it’s been put into a box?  Could you be more clear?  It’s a hard question to answer.DS:  That you wanted to be seen as more than just RuPaul the drag queen, but also for the man and versatile artist that you are.RP:  That’s not on target.  What other people think of me is not my business.  What I do is what I do.  How people see me doesn’t change what I decide to do.  I don’t choose projects so people don’t see me as one thing or another.  I choose projects that excite me.  I think the problem is that people refuse to understand what drag is outside of their own belief system.  A friend of mine recently did the Oprah show about transgendered youth.  It was obvious that we, as a culture, have a hard time trying to understand the difference between a drag queen, transsexual, and a transgender, yet we find it very easy to know the difference between the American baseball league and the National baseball league, when they are both so similar.  We’ll learn the difference to that.  One of my hobbies is to research and go underneath ideas to discover why certain ones stay in place while others do not.  Like Adam and Eve, which is a flimsy fairytale story, yet it is something that people believe; what, exactly, keeps it in place?DS:  What keeps people from knowing the difference between what is real and important, and what is not?RP:  Our belief systems.  If you are a Christian then your belief system doesn’t allow for transgender or any of those things, and you then are going to have a vested interest in not understanding that.  Why?  Because if one peg in your belief system doesn’t work or doesn’t fit, the whole thing will crumble.  So some people won’t understand the difference between a transvestite and transsexual.  They will not understand that no matter how hard you force them to because it will mean deconstructing their whole belief system.  If they understand Adam and Eve is a parable or fairytale, they then have to rethink their entire belief system.As to me being seen as whatever, I was more likely commenting on the phenomenon of our culture.  I am creative, and I am all of those things you mention, and doing one thing out there and people seeing it, it doesn’t matter if people know all that about me or not.DS:  Recently I interviewed Natasha Khan of the band Bat for Lashes, and she is considered by many to be one of the real up-and-coming artists in music today.  Her band was up for the Mercury Prize in England.  When I asked her where she drew inspiration from, she mentioned what really got her recently was the 1960’s and 70's psychedelic drag queen performance art, such as seen in Jack Smith and the Destruction of Atlantis, The Cockettes and Paris Is Burning.  What do you think when you hear an artist in her twenties looking to that era of drag performance art for inspiration?RP:  The first thing I think of when I hear that is that young kids are always looking for the ‘rock and roll’ answer to give.  It’s very clever to give that answer.  She’s asked that a lot: "Where do you get your inspiration?"  And what she gave you is the best sound bite she could; it’s a really a good sound bite.  I don’t know about Jack Smith and the Destruction of Atlantis, but I know about The Cockettes and Paris Is Burning.  What I think about when I hear that is there are all these art school kids and when they get an understanding of how the press works, and how your sound bite will affect the interview, they go for the best.DS:  You think her answer was contrived?RP:  I think all answers are really contrived.  Everything is contrived; the whole world is an illusion.  Coming up and seeing kids dressed in Goth or hip hop clothes, when you go beneath all that, you have to ask: what is that really?  You understand they are affected, pretentious.  There’s nothing wrong with that, but it’s how we see things.  I love Paris Is Burning.DS:  Has the Iraq War affected you at all?RP:  Absolutely.  It’s not good, I don’t like it, and it makes me want to enjoy this moment a lot more and be very appreciative.  Like when I’m on a hike in a canyon and it smells good and there aren’t bombs dropping.DS:  Do you think there is a lot of apathy in the culture?RP:  There’s apathy, and there’s a lot of anti-depressants and that probably lends a big contribution to the apathy.  We have iPods and GPS systems and all these things to distract us.DS:  Do you ever work the current political culture into your art?RP:  No, I don’t.  Every time I bat my eyelashes it’s a political statement. The drag I come from has always been a critique of our society, so the act is defiant in and of itself in a patriarchal society such as ours.  It’s an act of treason.DS:  What do you think of young performance artists working in drag today?RP:  I don’t know of any.  I don’t know of any.  Because the gay culture is obsessed with everything straight and femininity has been under attack for so many years, there aren’t any up and coming drag artists.  Gay culture isn’t paying attention to it, and straight people don’t either.  There aren’t any drag clubs to go to in New York.  I see more drag clubs in Los Angeles than in New York, which is so odd because L.A. has never been about club culture.DS:  Michael Musto told me something that was opposite of what you said.  He said he felt that the younger gays, the ones who are up-and-coming, are over the body fascism and more willing to embrace their feminine sides.RP:  I think they are redefining what femininity is, but I still think there is a lot of negativity associated with true femininity.  Do boys wear eyeliner and dress in skinny jeans now?  Yes, they do.  But it’s still a heavily patriarchal culture and you never see two men in Star magazine, or the Queer Eye guys at a premiere, the way you see Ellen and her girlfriend—where they are all, ‘Oh, look how cute’—without a negative connotation to it.  There is a definite prejudice towards men who use femininity as part of their palette; their emotional palette, their physical palette.  Is that changing?  It’s changing in ways that don’t advance the cause of femininity.  I’m not talking frilly-laced pink things or Hello Kitty stuff.  I’m talking about goddess energy, intuition and feelings.  That is still under attack, and it has gotten worse.  That’s why you wouldn’t get someone covering the RuPaul album, or why they say people aren’t tuning into the Katie Couric show.  Sure, they can say ‘Oh, RuPaul’s album sucks’ and ‘Katie Couric is awful’; but that’s not really true.  It’s about what our culture finds important, and what’s important are things that support patriarchal power.  The only feminine thing supported in this struggle is Pamela Anderson and Jessica Simpson, things that support our patriarchal culture.The American Broadcasting Company's (ABC) accreditation in Russia will not be renewed by the Russian Government following an interview with Shamil Basayev on ABC.Basayev is a Chechen rebel leader — who seeks an end to Russian rule of Chechnya — and has claimed responsibility for a number of terrorist incidents, including the Beslan school siege where 344 civilians -  172 of them children - were killed. The interview with Basayev was conducted by freelance journalist Andrei Babitsky and was shown during ABC's Nightline.A Russian foreign ministry spokesman said: "A decision was taken that at the end of their expiry period, the accreditations of the workers of this company will not be renewed."Initially, the Foreign Ministry had opposed this action, which was pushed by the Defence Ministry. After Basayev's interview, Defence Minister Sergei Ivanov said that ABC was "persona non grata" and described it as a "rogue tv station". In the interview, Basayev said that he was responsible for the Beslan atrocity and that further Beslan-style attacks would take place.Despite all the attention Russia gets in the world media and despite a resurgence of interest towards Russia in the U.S., there was no English-language publication about the country. Russia! intends to fill this gap, now set to hit bookstores.However, the approach the publishers chose for this 132-page glossy magazine is somewhat unorthodox. On the magazine's website publishers state that most of the names one would expect to find in the publication, such as Maria Sharapova, Leo Tolstoy or Vladimir Putin, are not mentioned in the magazine. The reason for that is, according to the magazine, that "there are much more interesting things about Russia."In the inaugural issue of Russia! readers can find stories on hidden treasures of Ivan the Terrible, photos of young women chopping wood, discussions of the free speech and homosexuality and photographic journey to Russia’s far east.The magazine is published quarterly by Press Release Group, a New York-based marketing and communications company.Azerbaijan-born cellist and conductor Mstislav Rostropovich (nicknamed Slava, Russian for glory) has passed yesterday at age 80, after having been admitted to a Moscow hospital in February this year, allegedly for intestinal cancer. The exact cause of death however has not been released. His coffin has been put in the Moscow Conservatory today, and many prominent and thousands of other Russians came to salute him. The cello player only died four days after his friend Boris Yeltsin.Rostropovich was not only considered to be one of the best cellists in the world, but he also was a symbol of the resistance to the Soviet regime. In 1970, he provided shelter to Alexander Solzhenitsyn, whose writings alerted the world to the Gulag system of forced labour camps in the Soviet Union. Because of his support for dissidents, Rostropovich fell in disgrace and lost his citizenship in 1978. He was restored during the perestroika reforms.Rostropovich conducted the U.S. National Symphony Orchestra from 1977 to 1994. In February, Russian President Vladimir Putin offered him the First Degree in the Order of Service to the Fatherland for his "outstanding contribution to the development of world music and many years of creative activity."President Putin, Alexander Solzhenitsyn, French PM Dominique de Villepin and others have already expressed their regrets about the loss of Rostropovich. De Villepin brought to memory Rostropovich's performance at the Berlin Wall during it's fall, an image globally broadcasted which earned him international fame.Igor Moiseyev, who has been widely acclaimed as the greatest 20th-century choreographer of folk dance, has died today after a long illness. He was 101 years old.Born Igor Alexandrovich Moiseyev on January 21, 1906  in Kiev, Moiseyev graduated from the Bolshoi Theatre ballet school in 1924 and danced in the theatre until 1939. His first choreography in the Bolshoi was Footballer in 1930 and the last was Spartacus in 1954.Since the early 1930s, he staged acrobatic parades on Red Square and finally came up with the idea of establishing the Theatre of Folk Art. In 1936, Vyacheslav Molotov put him in charge of the new dance company, which has since been known as the Moiseyev Ballet. Among about 200 dances he created for his company, some humorously represented the game of football and guerrilla warfare. After visiting Belarus he choreographed a Belarusian "folk" dance Bulba ("Potato"), which over the years indeed became a Belarusian folk dance. According to the Encyclopædia Britannica, Moiseyev's work has been especially admired "for the balance that it maintained between authentic folk dance and theatrical effectiveness".Moiseyev was named People's Artist of the USSR in 1953, Hero of Socialist Labor in 1976, received the Lenin Prize (1967, for the dance show A Road to the Dance), four USSR State Prizes (1942, 1947, 1952, 1985), Russian Federation State Prize (1996), was awarded numerous orders and medals of the Soviet Union, Spain, and many other countries. On the day of his centenary, Moiseyev became the first Russian to receive Order for the Merits before the Fatherland, 1st class — the highest civilian decoration of the Russian Federation.A judge in Tomsk, Russia drew a round of applause from the court room as she dismissed charges of extremism against the Bhagavad Gita As It Is, a Russian commented translation of the Bhagavad Gita published by the International Society for Krishna Consciousness. This decision put an end to the six-month-long trial of the book accused by the state prosecutors of fostering "social discord"  and "incitement to religious hatred". The Indian Foreign Ministry, which had been urging Moscow to avert the possible ban they termed as "absurd", welcomed the verdict calling it "a sensible resolution of a sensitive issue" which "demonstrates yet again that the people of India and Russia have a deep understanding of each other's cultures and will always reject any attempt to belittle our common civilizational values" and thanked the Russian government for their support. Indian Ambassador to Russia Ajai Mahotra also stated that the court decision "deserves to be applauded".The controversial court case on the Bhagavad Gita, an ancient text regarded sacred by millions of Hindus, had threatened to become a stumbling block in traditionally strong Indo-Russian relations as it caused political and societal turmoil in India, with the Indian Parliament stalled over the proposed ban and Hindu activists burning Russian flags. The trial also evoked strong criticism from the international media.Ksenia Sukhinova of Russia, won the Miss World 2008 crown on Saturday, outshining 108 other international competitors. She was crowned by her predecessor Miss World 2007, Zhang Zilin of the People's Republic of China. She pledged to "help people" and said, "I think I can help people and I want to help people and today if I walk away with this crown I will do that." Sukhinova, 5' 10", said that her immediate ambitions included meeting Russia's president Dmitry Medvedev. She is a student of Tyumen State Oil and Gas University, she is enrolled in the Bachelor of Science program, majoring in Engineering.Sukhinova was born in 1987 in Nizhnevartovsk,  in the north west of Siberia. Sukhinova won the 2007 Miss Russia beauty contest on December 14, in Moscow, where she represented Tyumen. Ksenia surpassed 50 other contestants from all over Russia. She was unable to represent Russia at Miss Universe 2008 due to her college work, so her 2nd runner-up, Vera Krasova, replaced her in the contest. Vera placed as the 3rd runner-up to Venezuela's Dayana Mendoza.Miss World 2008, the 58th Miss World was held at Sandton Convention Centre in Johannesburg, South Africa on December 13, 2008. Originally, the pageant was going to take place in Kiev, Ukraine, but because of the ongoing crisis between Georgia and Russia in neighboring South Ossetia, the Miss World Organization decided to move the pageant away from Eastern Europe. 109 contestants from all over the world competed for the crown, marking the biggest turnout in the 58 years of the pageant, surpassing the previous record of 107 during Miss World 2004. She is the second Russian contestant to win Miss World, the first was Julia Kourotchkina in 1992.The first runner-up was India's Parvathy Omanakuttan, while the second runner-up was Trinidad and Tobago's Gabrielle Walcott. The other finalists were Angola's Brigith dos Santos and South Africa's Tansey Coetzee. There were 15 semi-finalists. Julia Morley, Miss World committee head, and wife of Miss World creator Eric Morley said that the winner has to espouse "beauty with a purpose" with charity via fund raising, being one of the main focuses of the contest. "Over the years the crown that is worn by the winner is a symbol for fundraising. Miss World herself, this year, the winner from China, she's raised over 30 million dollars in her year in office. So perhaps from anything else it does a lot of good things for needy children and old people, which I think is important too." she said.It was the sixth time that South Africa hosted the pageant, more than any other country except England. The event was aired live to millions of viewers in 187 countries, who, for the first time in the pageant's history, were allowed to vote for one of the semi-finalists through the Internet. An international jury elected the winner.Twenty leading Russian scholars urged Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister, President-elect Vladimir Putin to step in and take the ongoing Bhagavad Gita trial in the Siberian city of Tomsk under "personal control", saying it "discredits Russia's cultural and democratic credentials in the eyes of the civilized world".Last December, the Tomsk court rejected state prosecutor's indictment of the Bhagavad Gita As It Is, a commented translation of the ancient Hindu classic by the Hare Krishna founder Bhaktivedanta Swami, as an extremist text. However, in January the Tomsk prosecutor's office filed an appeal, arguing the commentaries incite "social hatred" and "violence against non-believers" and must be banned as "extremist". Tomsk region prosecutor Alexander Buksman publicly supported the appeal, saying that the proposed ban on the commentaries rather than on the Hindu text itself was justified, as "it's important to discern gems form the chatter in this very case". The appeal is scheduled for hearing on March 20.In an open letter to the top Russian leaders, the group of eminent Russian scholars of philosophy, philology, and oriental studies strongly denounced the prosecutor's attempt to dismiss Bhaktivedanta Swami's commentaries as an extremist distortion of Bhagavad Gita itself, saying that these charges are "untrue and contrary to the traditions of Hinduism"."The book does not contain any signs of extremism and does not incite hatred on ethnic, religious or any other grounds. On the contrary, the book written in the commentary tradition of Bengali Vaishnavism, one of the most popular branches of Hinduism, is considered sacred by a section of believers", the scholars emphasized, warning that the continued trial of the Hindu scripture in Russia is "driving a wedge in Russian-Indian relations." Similar concerns were voiced earlier at an all-Russian conference at Tomsk State University  titled Bhagavad Gita in history and modern society, where scholars expressed perplexity at the prosecutor's move to declare a translation of the Hindu scripture extremist. Speaking at the conference, Irina Glushkova, chief researcher of the Indian Research Center at the Oriental Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, stressed that "Bhagavad Gita As It Is has the right to exist as any other commentary or scripture. It is a fundamental principle of Hinduism and there is no any other Hinduism".The controversial court case on the Bhagavad Gita, an ancient text regarded sacred by millions of Hindus, had already caused political and societal turmoil in India, with the Indian Parliament stalled over the proposed ban and Hindu activists burning Russian flags. The trial also evoked strong criticism from the Russian, Indian, and international media.Lyudmila Zykina, Soviet and Russian national singer, died today, just one month after her 80th birthday. She was highly popular in Russia and named no less than "Queen of Russian folk".In 1947 Zykina joined the famous Pyatnitsky Choir. Her popularity increased when she started a solo career—the song Flows the river Volga remains an immense hit up to the present time.As Russian president Dmitry Medvedev said, "Lyudmila Zykina was a personification of Russia."The funeral will take place on July 4 at Novodevichy Cemetery in Moscow.Televison star Ryan Dunn was twice over the legal drink-drive limit at the time of last Monday's car accident that killed him and a friend. The pair died when Dunn's Porsche left the road and crashed into a tree causing the car to burst into flames. Police have determined that the vehicle was travelling at speeds between 132 and 140 mph.The accident occurred in West Chester, Pennsylvania where the legal drink drive limit is a blood alcohol reading of 0.08. Toxicology results show that Dunn had a blood alcohol level of 0.196. The star had previously been caught drink-driving in 2005.Dunn made a name for himself after appearing in the television series Jackass. He starred in the TV series as well as the three follow on films that were produced. Recently he had also began to present his own television shows Homewrecker and Proving Ground.Tributes have been paid Dunn by several of his co-workers and friends. Creator of Jackass Johnny Knoxville described him as a "brother" and rock band Kings of Leon asked fans to raise a glass to Dunn during a concert on Wednesday. The band's bassist, Jared Followill, said on Twitter he was "devastated" by the death of his friend.Sacha Baron Cohen, the British actor and comedian known for his characters Borat Sagdiyev and Ali G, told Britain's Daily Telegraph on Friday that he was officially retiring both aforementioned characters. The reason for this, he said, is because of the public becoming too knowledgeable of him and his alter egos."It is hard, and the problem with success, although it's fantastic, is that every new person who sees the Borat movie is one less person I 'get' with Borat again, so it's a kind of self-defeating form, really," Cohen stated.Borat Sagdiyev is a fictional character who is a Kazakhstani journalist with anti-Semitic and misogynist viewpoints, and Ali G is a "gangsta" from the "Staines ghetto".When posing as Borat or Ali G, Cohen would conduct interviews with unsuspecting people who believed that the interviews and the character were genuine. He would ask questions designed to make the interviewee look foolish or ignorant. He has showcased this method in the television program Da Ali G Show and the faux-documentary Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan.Cohen generated much controversy from the nation of Kazakhstan, who claimed that Borat portrayed a negative image of the country's people. He also garnered lawsuits from the unknowing participants of his act. Cohen's third persona, a gay Austrian reporter named Bruno, is slated to appear in a 2008 film.Waukesha County, Wisconsin, Martin Luther King Day. The Waukesha Freeman, a newspaper with roots in the Abolitionist Movement before the American Civil War, announced that the Wisconsin Department of Transportation has deemed a house at Highway 164 and Lisbon Road of no historical value, and has authorized its demolition sometime this spring.A historian in the town of Sussex, Wisconsin, where the house is located, noted that residents had a verbal tradition that it was a location in the Underground Railroad, a route for slaves to Canada, before the American Civil War. Sue Baker, of the Waukesha County Historical Society, which has a museum of county history in the old Court House, noted that Waukesha County had strong abolitionist leanings.Ironically, Waukesha County, due to its high house prices, compared to Milwaukee County, has relatively few African-American residents, and statistically, the Milwaukee metropolitan area is one of the most segregated in the United States.ABC remained a Screen Actors Guild (SAG) award winning powerhouse, with LOST and Desperate Housewives winning Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in their respective categories. Keifer Sutherland (24) and Sandra Oh (Grey's Anatomy) won for the performances in Drama Series, and Sean Hayes (Will and Grace) and Felicity Huffman (Desperate Housewives) were honoured for their Comedy Series performances. Paul Newman won Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Television Movie or Miniseries, for his potrayal of Max Roby in HBO's Empire Falls, while S. Epatha Merkerson role of Rachel "Nanny" Crosby in Lackawanna Blues took the Female Actor.The SAG selects a random portion of their professional members each year, to vote on each award category. The 12th annual awards ceremony for the 2005 season was hosted on Sunday.William Shatner, who was nominated that night for his role in Boston Legal, introduced a "cinematic salute" to SAG members who perform in television advertisements. Shatner himself is a frequent commercial actor, known for appearing in Priceline.com commercials.After a filmed tribute, actress Jamie Lee Curtis presented Shirley Temple Black with the Screen Actors Guild Awards 42nd Annual Life Achievement Award.The death of Michael Jackson on Thursday has caused retail demand for his songs and for memorabilia to increase.On Saturday, Portugal won its first victory at the Eurovision song competition, held this year at Kiev's International Exhibition Centre in Ukraine. Salvador Sobral's song Amar Pelos Dois won 758 points from public and professional judges. Bulgaria and Moldova came second and third respectively. Sobral called it "a victory for music".Out of 42 countries participating this time, 26 countries including hosts Ukraine and the Big Five — France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom — competed in the finals. The competition began on May 9. Sobral, who has a serious heart problem, did not perform during early rehearsals. Ukraine, Germany and Spain ended up at the bottom of the vote ranking winning collecting respectively 36, six and five points.UK representative Lucie Jones secured fifteenth place with 111 points. Sobral's ballad was written by his sister, who joined the 27-year-old winner on the stage during the reprise. Winner of the second semi-final Bulgaria's Kristian Kostov secured 615 points from the voting and Moldova won 374 points. Last year, Ukrainian singer Jamala scored 534 points, then highest in the competition, but this year won only 36 points.Portugal made its first appearance in the competition in 1964. The European Broadcast Union (EBU) warned Sobral against breaking the rules of the contest after he wore a t-shirt with "S.O.S.Refugees" written on it in a press conference following the first semi-final which Portugal had won. The Portuguese said, "If I'm here and I have European exposure, the least thing I can do is a humanitarian message [...] People come to Europe in plastic boats and are being asked to show their birth certificates in order to enter a country. These people are not immigrants, they're refugees running from death. Make no mistake. There is so much bureaucratic stuff happening in the refugee camps in Greece, Turkey, and Italy and we should help create legal and safe pathways from these countries to their destiny countries" EBU banned him from wearing t-shirts with politically motivated messages.Kasia Moś, representing Poland, said that she dedicated her performance to animal rights and added "I just hope that after this in Poland we’re going to change the law and we will not have dogs on chains".Eurovision reported the final was watched by four million viewers on YouTube.As the winner of this edition of the competition, Portugal is to host next year's competition. Two-time winner of the competition Ukraine previously hosted the 2005 contest.Earlier today, San Fermín de los Navarros church in Madrid, Spain celebrated its patron saint day with a small festival in the street outside of and in the courtyard of the church with over two hundred people in attendance.  The patron saint day, San Fermín, marks the start of the Running of the Bulls in Pamplona.The celebration, called "Chupinazo", started in Madrid with a rocket being launched at noon.  Following this, music was played, and sausages from the Navarre region of Spain called Chistorras were given to festival goers.  Free bread and wine were also given out.  Many attendees wore red handkerchiefs adorned with shields of Navarre. The church sold handkerchiefs and other commerative materials, while using the event to solicit funds to fix the roof.The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art (SFMOMA) has purchased the painting Intermission, by American artist Edward Hopper. The piece, created in 1963, is one of the last paintings created by Hopper. Hopper's realist style, which visually examined American urban and rural life in the first half of the 20th century, made him one of the most influential and important American artists of the modern era. The painting, which was sold by a private collector, is believed to be valued at over $25 million. Intermission shows a woman sitting alone in the front row of a theater. The theater is empty, and is described, by San Francisco Chronicle art critic Kenneth Baker as expressing emotion and social isolation, a standard theme in Hopper's works. The inspiration for the painting came to Hopper while he was watching a film. Hopper's wife, Josephine, had scheduled Hopper to create the painting in a theater, however Hopper would complete the painting at his studio in New York City. Original sketches of Intermission show a second person sitting in the third row — a figure that never made it into the final painting. Baker calls Intermission a "prime example of Hopper's austere realist vision". SFMOMA will not disclose how much they paid for Intermission. When the painting Hotel Window, which is of similar size and from the same period, sold at auction in 2006, it sold for $26.9 million. It is believed that "Inspiration" is worth just as much, if not more. Intermission was purchased with the help of donor funds, and acquired through the San Francisco-based Fraenkel Gallery, which sold if on behalf of a private collector. In exchange for the acquisition of Intermission, SFMOMA is selling another Hopper painting: Bridal Path, from 1939. A lesser known work of Hopper's, Bridal Path shows a horseback riding path in Central Park. By selling Bridal Path, SFMOMA is able to help fund the acquisition of the more well known Intermission. This practice is slowly gaining popularity within a museum and art market that previously disapproved of the sale of lesser known works for more popular acquisitions. Baker acknowledges the past practices, but believes that this is "a necessary practice in an art market where prices for historically important art continue to rise steeply." Intermission goes on display for the public on Friday, at SFMOMA.Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University Law Center graduate Sandra Fluke announced her candidacy yesterday to run for the California State Senate.The Democrat previously stated she would run for a seat in the United States Congress being vacated by retiring Congressman Henry Waxman. She informed the Los Angeles Times that she decided to run for the California State Senate instead of the U.S. Congress because she felt she would be able to accomplish more for the people of California as a state Senator.She will attempt to gain election to the seat currently occupied by Ted Lieu, a Democrat from Torrance, California. Lieu is currently in the beginning of his own campaign for Congressman Waxman's seat representing California's 33rd congressional district.In a release to the press, Fluke said: "I am extremely moved by the outpouring of local and national support I have received since I announced that I was considering running for office. My entire career has been devoted to the public interest, whether representing victims of human trafficking or advocating for working families."She described her intentions for the California legislature: "I am committed to continuing that fight in Sacramento, working to protect our environment, ensure our access to health care, and create the jobs that are desperately needed. While I strongly considered offering my candidacy for Congress, I feel there is a better way for me to advance the causes that are important to our community."Fluke characterized herself as a new voice for progressivism: "I believe that the families and communities of this district — from West Hollywood to West L.A. and from Santa Monica to Torrance and beyond — deserve to have a fresh perspective from a new generation of progressive leadership in Sacramento, and I am eager to get to work fighting for the causes that matter most to our future as a community, state and nation."After graduating from law school, Fluke moved to Los Angeles where she used her skills as a lawyer to help improve conditions for individuals related to improving the living wage and advocating for better foster care for children.Fluke was nominated as a candidate by Time magazine for their Person of the Year of 2012. Time concluded Fluke helped give U.S. President Barack Obama an edge in his 2012 presidential re-election campaign.Fluke was a featured speaker on September 5, 2012 at the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Fluke spoke to attendees at the convention about the consequences for women of electing Republican candidate for U.S. President Mitt Romney over incumbent President Barack Obama. Fluke campaigned with President Obama in his bid for re-election.She was recognized April 22, 2012 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States. Fluke received a nomination in March 2012 as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23, 2012 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee at a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crack down on human trafficking and domestic violence.Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University Law Center graduate Sandra Fluke was a featured speaker Wednesday at the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Fluke spoke to attendees at the convention about the consequences for women of electing Republican candidate for U.S. President, Mitt Romney, over incumbent President Barack Obama. Fluke has campaigned with President Obama in his bid for re-election.She encouraged listeners to her speech to use their vote for the next U.S. President as a voice, stating, "I'm here because I spoke out, and this November, each of us must speak out."Fluke contrasted possible scenarios which could result from a Republican-controlled White House with that of President Obama's administration's support of women's issues, and commented, "During this campaign, we've heard about the two profoundly different futures that could await women -- and how one of those futures looks like an offensive, obsolete relic of our past."She concluded her remarks by asserting that Mitt Romney would not place emphasis on women's rights, observing, "And six months from now, we'll all be living in one, or the other. But only one. A country where our president either has our back or turns his back." Fluke's speech was well received throughout by the audience, and garnered her a standing ovation from the crowd. After her speech, Fluke took to Twitter to thank convention participants for the positive reaction she received, tweeting, "#DNC2012, THANK YOU for such a warm welcome! But thank you more for standing for #women!"She was recognized April 22 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States. Fluke received a nomination in March as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee on a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crackdown on human trafficking and domestic violence.Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University Law Center graduate Sandra Fluke was the keynote speaker at a women's health event Tuesday night in Nebraska.Fluke was the headliner in Lincoln, Nebraska at the Rococo Theatre for the annual fundraiser of Planned Parenthood of the Heartland, titled: "The Big Event: Courage — No Matter What". She currently resides in Los Angeles, California with her fiancé and "Mr. President", their pet dog. After graduating cum laude with her J.D. degree this past May, Fluke successfully took and passed the bar exam in July and is now an attorney.In an interview with the Lincoln Journal Star, Fluke reflected on her role as a public figure and her ability to contribute to the contribute to the discourse about women's rights, "It's uplifting and heartening to see how many people really care about the issues I’m talking about." Fluke observed, "I think it's also allowed me to give a voice and shine a light on the work that a lot of people are doing." Fluke's speech centered on women's rights, women's healthcare, and the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. She stressed the importance of women's issues in the recent election for U.S. President: "This year, something changed in our national conversation about women’s health.... Before my time, women's healthcare has never decided a presidential election. We really did make a difference this election." She spurred on attendees of the event to become more active in supporting women's rights: "It’s time for young women in this country to join the fight, because it’s our rights and our health that are at stake."Planned Parenthood regional development and planned gifts director Tari Hendrickson told the Lincoln Journal Star Sandra Fluke was her top choice for keynote speaker at the event: "Sandra was No. 1 on my list; I never had a No. 2. She's a voice of reason. I think she has raised the bar for rational conversation about a serious issue."Planned Parenthood of the Heartland Planned Nebraska communications manager Susan Allen told the Daily Nebraskan Sandra Fluke was the ideal person to serve as keynote speaker: "She is a wonderfully outspoken person on the affordable care act, women's health and women's rights. We decided she would be the perfect person to speak to Planned Parenthood supporters." Planned Parenthood intern and University of Nebraska-Lincoln student Emily Schiltz commented on landing Fluke as the keynote speaker, "She is definitely the biggest person we've had in a long time.""I feel like she walks the walk rather than talk the talk," said Planned Parenthood intern and journalism student Audrey Nance.Fluke indicated her intention was to persevere in speaking about issues she thinks important: "I think my ultimate goal is giving a voice to people who don't always have one."She has been named as a candidate by Time magazine in a November 26 announcement, for their Person of the Year. Time concluded Fluke helped give U.S. President Barack Obama an edge in his presidential re-election campaign.Fluke was a featured speaker on September 5 at the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Fluke spoke to attendees at the convention about the consequences for women of electing Republican candidate for U.S. President, Mitt Romney, over incumbent President Barack Obama. Fluke has campaigned with President Obama in his bid for re-election.She was recognized April 22 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States. Fluke received a nomination in March as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee at a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crack down on human trafficking and domestic violence.In an opinion piece published by CNN on Tuesday, Georgetown University law student and women's rights advocate Sandra Fluke insisted she will not allow slurs from critics to silence her and other women from continuing to speak out on issues regarding women's health and contraception.Fluke has faced slurs and personal attacks after speaking before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee in the United States House of Representatives about women’s health and contraception. She was called a "slut" and a "prostitute" by talk radio show host Rush Limbaugh. In response to these attacks, Fluke has received public support from women, members of the media, and politicians including the President of the United States.In her piece for CNN, Fluke took the opportunity to thank her supporters, writing, “By now, many have heard the stories I wanted to share thanks to the congressional leaders and members of the media who have supported me and millions of women in speaking out.” She characterized the “opponents of reproductive health access” who issued personal attacks against her as being motivated by an attempt to change the topic of conversation away from a dialogue about women’s health, and “to silence women's voices regarding their own health care.”Fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful. She came to this conclusion due to the multitude of positive comments and encouragement sent to her by both female and male individuals urging that contraception medication be considered a medical necessity.Asserting that she would not remain silent on this issue of women’s health, Fluke wrote, “Attacking me and women who use contraception by calling us prostitutes and worse cannot silence us.”She noted that a significant majority of women have utilized contraception medication, and commented that there exists a social disconnect between politicians attempting to make it more difficult for women to access this type of health care, and the views of society-at-large about the matter: “Restricting access to such a basic health care service, which 99% of sexually experienced American women have used and 62% of American women are using right now, is out of touch with public sentiment.”Fluke concluded her piece by emphasizing that those in power should not govern based on ideology: “I am proud to stand with the millions of women and men who recognize that our government should legislate according to the reality of our lives -- not for ideology.”After being banned by Congressman Darrell Issa from speaking before a Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing on February 16 which consisted mainly of male panelists, Fluke appeared before a meeting of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee convened by Minority leader of the United States House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi on February 23.Fluke spoke to the committee about the need for contraception to be covered by health care plans offered by employers, as a matter integral to women’s health. She cited multiple cases where women take contraception medication as part of their health care for treatment of medical conditions unrelated to birth control, including two women who suffer from polycystic ovarian syndrome, a woman who is afflicted with endometriosis and another who takes contraception in order to prevent seizures.Speaking before the United States Senate on February 17 along with fellow members Patty Murray, Kirsten Gillibrand, Barbara Boxer, and Charles Schumer, Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire expressed her support for Fluke. Like Fluke, Senator Shaheen pointed out the need not to silence the voices of women in the public government debate about women’s health care: “Time and time again, women have been silenced in this discussion, a discussion about our own very personal health care decisions.” Senator Shaheen concluded her remarks with an explanation as to why she believes women should have significant representation in discussions about their health care: “Women deserve a voice in this debate because, after all, in the end this is about our health and it is about a health care decision that is between women, their families, their doctors, and their own faith.”President Barack Obama called Fluke on March 2 to express his support for her courage to speak out on issues of women’s health. In his first press conference of 2012 on March 6, he discussed his reasons for deciding to call Fluke. The President cited his personal thoughts about his own two daughters: “And the reason I called Ms. Fluke is because I thought about Malia and Sasha [Obama's daughters], and one of the things I want them to do as they get older is to engage in issues they care about, even ones I may not agree with them on. I want them to be able to speak their mind in a civil and thoughtful way. And I don't want them attacked or called horrible names because they're being good citizens.”President Obama went on to state that Fluke served as a positive role model for citizen participation in democracy and society: “And I wanted Sandra to know that I thought her parents should be proud of her, and that we want to send a message to all our young people that being part of a democracy involves argument and disagreements and debate, and we want you to be engaged, and there's a way to do it that doesn't involve you being demeaned and insulted, particularly when you’re a private citizen.”Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University law student Sandra Fluke has been named as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.Time announced the candidates as part of a ballot process which began Thursday, and solicited votes from the public via the Internet. Visitors to its website were requested to select "the leaders, artists, innovators, icons and heroes that they think are the most influential people in the world." The winner of the poll as selected by visitors to the Time website will be featured in the Time 100 issue, and the magazine's editors pick those individuals showcased on the actual complete list of 100.In its entry for Fluke, Time characterized her as a "law student and political activist". She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee on a hearing about women's health and contraception.When contacted by Time, Fluke commented that though she has faced attacks in the media, she did not regret her actions: "I would do this again, because these issues are that important to me."In addition to Sandra Fluke, other influential women named as candidates for the Time 100 list include Queen Elizabeth II; comedian and talk show host Ellen DeGeneres; musicians Lady Gaga, Adele, Jessica Simpson and Lana Del Rey; Portlandia creator and star Carrie Brownstein; and actresses Kristen Wiig and Melissa McCarthy of the film Bridesmaids.Online voting for the poll winner closes April 6; Time will release the full list of Time 100 on April 17.Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University Law Center graduate Sandra Fluke has been named as a candidate by Time magazine for their Person of the Year.Sandra Fluke was the focus of media in February after attempting to testify before a Republican-controlled committee in the United States House of Representatives about contraception and women's health. Kate Pickert of Time wrote in her profile, "Fluke ... weathered the attention with poise and maturity and emerged as a political celebrity." Time concluded Fluke helped give U.S. President Barack Obama an edge in his presidential re-election campaign: "Democrats gave her a national-convention speaking slot as part of their push to make reproductive rights a central issue in the 2012 presidential campaign — one that helped Barack Obama trounce Mitt Romney among single women on Election Day."Fluke responded to the nomination via Twitter, and stated she was "Honored to be listed for Time's Person of Year". In the same statement she also drew attention to the scarcity of women on the list of candidates.An analysis of Fluke's candidacy by Peter Roff of U.S. News & World Report called attention to her role in the political phenomenon in the recent election cycle known as the "War on Women" which drew significant attention to issues of women's rights. Roff gave advice to the Republican party on the way it relates to women, "Once the Republicans become comfortable talking about all issues as though they were women's issues too — issues like unemployment, economic growth, job creation, education, and healthcare as well as the so-called social issues — they will be demonstrating that women have a home in the GOP. Until they do however it will be the Sandra Flukes of the world that continue to carry the day when it counts."Journalist Leslie Marshall observed some conservative political commentators were critical of Time for its nomination of Fluke for Person of the Year. Marshall argued Fluke belongs on the list: "She should be credited with reminding women on both the right and the left; that many of us agree on the issue of women's reproductive rights. Although some of us might be Democrats and some Republicans, our gender unites us. She brought more women to the polls, reminding us of the decades it took to be where we are and what was at stake for women if we did not re-elect President Obama. In speaking at the Democratic National Convention, she showed true strength over adversity. And she has since become a women's health activist. For these reasons alone, she belongs on this list."However, Marshall stated she wouldn't be voting for Fluke's candidacy, but would instead cast her ballot for Malala Yousafzai, a 15-year-old female education activist who survived a Taliban assassination attempt.Fluke was a featured speaker on September 5 at the 2012 Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina. Fluke spoke to attendees at the convention about the consequences for women of electing Republican candidate for U.S. President, Mitt Romney, over incumbent President Barack Obama. Fluke has campaigned with President Obama in his bid for re-election.She was recognized April 22 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States. Fluke received a nomination in March as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee at a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crack down on human trafficking and domestic violence.Women's rights advocate and Georgetown University law student Sandra Fluke was recognized Sunday, April 22 with the Stand Up for Choice Award. Fluke was given the Stand Up for Choice Award at the "Third Annual Multi-Generational Brunch" of the organization NARAL Pro-Choice America which was held in New York City (NYC), New York in the United States. The organization's president, Nancy Keenan, attended the event and had previously spoken in favor of Fluke in a press release announcing the award. "Sandra is a remarkable leader and a true hero in the reproductive-rights community. This event brings together women and men from many generations, and the one thing that unites us all is the personal stories that are the reason for our joining this cause. Without a doubt, many people have witnessed Sandra's strength over these last few weeks and have been inspired to join her in standing up for women's freedom and privacy."Chair of the NARAL Pro-Choice America’s Future Direction Committee Amanda Hirsh released a statement in support of Fluke saying, "we are thrilled to honor Sandra Fluke with the Stand Up For Choice Award at this year's multi-generational brunch. Attempts to silence voices like Sandra's have failed. Young leaders across the country are looking to Sandra as an inspiration."Fluke responded to a post on Twitter from NARAL congratulating her on receiving the award, stating, "I was honored to receive it! Thank you! I'm very humbled by the inspiring stories women told of their own lives."Fluke received a nomination in March as a candidate for Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. The list is released annually as a special edition of Time magazine, titled Time 100.She gave testimony to the US Congress on February 23 before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee on a hearing about women's health and contraception. She also worked for Sanctuary for Families in NYC which worked to crackdown on human trafficking and domestic violence.Sandra Fluke, Chelsea Clinton, and Speaker of the New York City Council Christine Quinn were among the guests who discussed the role of women in politics at the 92nd Street Y in New York City yesterday evening. The forum was co-hosted by Glamour magazine. Clinton led the panel; Fluke and Quinn were joined by additional panelists including the communications chief to former President George W. Bush, Nicolle Wallace; Abby Huntsman Livingston, daughter of former Republican presidential candidate and past governor of Utah and United States Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman; the President of EMILY's List, Stephanie Schriock; and news anchor Amy Holmes.Fluke remarked upon the slew of media reactions to her February 23 U.S. Congressional testimony about women's health and contraception,  "One of the things I was really concerned about when ... verbal attacks began was what kind of message this was going to send to young women... I was worried they would think, 'I should sit down and shut up, because if I speak out, this is what happens' ... I want women to see this as an empowering moment."Wallace commented that women should be inspired to work in government due to a motivation of public service, "If you were asked, 'Will you serve?' you'd say, 'Of course!'... Part of the problem is that our politics are so sick — there's very little young women see in our news about the essence of what the office once was, which is, public service." She noted the potential impact of women voters on the upcoming 2012 U.S. presidential election, "Women don't vote in a bloc, but they are the largest percentage of independent voters".Clinton pointed out that the United States is joined by the country of Turkmenistan for 78th place in a ranking of the proportion of female members of the federal government. She noted, "Until my mother ran for president, I wasn’t fully cognizant of how few women run for office and how few women hold office". Quinn informed the panel that when she initially decided to attempt to become Speaker of the New York City Council, critics told her why she would fail, "Because I was from the west side of Manhattan, cause I was too liberal, because I was a woman, because I was a lesbian, all things I knew when I woke up that morning, you know what I’m saying." She asserted that politics in New York need not be tied to a particular politician's sex, and stated, "the sky is the limit in New York."Schriock emphasized there are indeed women placed in federal elections in the U.S., "They're running for office right now in 2012. We have a historic number of women running for the United States Senate". She posed the question of how to ensure these candidates succeed in their elections.Wallace admitted that she authored novels It's Classified and Eighteen Acres as a cathartic form of expressing herself after viewing the pressures Hillary Clinton, Sarah Palin, and Michelle Obama experienced in the media during the 2008 campaign cycle. "I was so scarred by 2008 I made up an imaginary world".Bollywood star Sanjay Dutt has been pronounced guilty under the Arms Act for possession of illegal weapons, in the 1993 Mumbai blasts case by a TADA court in  Mumbai .The Special TADA court in Mumbai found the actor guilty of charges framed under the Sections 3 (possession of firearms and ammunition, i.e. registered 9 mm pistol, without proper license) and 7 (have in his possession for transferof prohibited arms or prohibited ammunition, i.e. AK-56 rifle) read with Section 25 9imprisonment of maximum of 3.5 years or with fine, or with both) of the Arms Act.Judge Pramod Kode gave the decision in the 11-year trial on the series of blasts on March 12, 1993, that killed 257 people. He did not find Dutt to be a terrorist or destructor.47-year-old Sanjay Dutt has been charged under Section 120B IPC (rigorous imprisonment for a term of minimum two years for criminal conspiracy), Section 3 (3) of TADA (P) act (for conspiring to facilitate the commission of a terrorist act, minimum imprisonment of five years).The minimum punishment for these charges would be five-year sentence. Before being granted bail Dutt has already spent almost 18 months in the jail as an undertrial.Meanwhile, co-accused Yusuf Nulwala and Kersi Adajania were also found guilty under the arms act. Other accused persons are Samir Hingora, Ibrahim Moosa, Manzoor Ahmed, Zebunissa, Rusi Mulla and Ajay Marwah.Dutt was in possession of one AK-56 rifle and its ammunition, a 9 mm pistol and its cartridges.The appeals for TADA court could be made in Supreme Court within 28 days. According to legal experts, Dutt's lawyers would try and move High Court, saying he has been convicted not under TADA act, but the Arms Act.After hearing a petintion moved by Dutt's lawyers, the court granted him an interim relief of twenty days. Now he has to surrender himself to the Mumbai police by December 19.A neologism coined in advice columnist Dan Savage's column Savage Love in response to comments made by former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum about homosexuality has gained prominence during the ongoing election cycle in the United States. After Santorum spoke out against LGBT rights in the United States in 2003, readers of Savage’s column voted to define the word "santorum" as "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex." The prominence of this term's association with Santorum, a current candidate for the Republican Party presidential nomination, has had an impact on the former Senator's presidential campaign.Dan Savage commented on the continued impact of the santorum neologism, in an interview with the Fort Worth Star-Telegram published Sunday, "It's still out there and it is an insanely dirty joke. It is crude. It is vile, as are Santorum's comments about gay people."At a speaking engagement on Friday, Santorum stated that same-sex partnerships don't "benefit society". Whilst speaking as part of his campaign for the U.S. presidency in 2012, Rick Santorum has had to answer questions from supporters of LGBT rights regarding his controversial political positions on issues pertaining to them. Critics have showed up to Santorum events and tried to giltter bomb the candidate. Democratic strategists poised themselves to take advantage of Santorum's association with the neologism phenomenon. Based on sources among Democratic operatives, Jack Cahill of American Thinker reports Democratic tactics in Missouri involve actually galvanizing support for Santorum ahead of that state's Republican caucuses in order to eliminate the possibility of a Mitt Romney win. Cahill says they view Santorum as mostly a dirty joke's punchline.Wikinews previously reported on the santorum neologism phenomenon in 2006, as part of an article, "Wikinews investigates Wikipedia usage by U.S. Senate staff members". The investigation noted that: "An edit to an article about a controversy over Senator Rick Santorum's statements about Constitutional rights to privacy with regards to sexual acts, seemingly coming from Rick Santorum's staff members, removed a reference to an effort to redefine Santorum's last name as a neologism".In a 2003 interview with the Associated Press, Rick Santorum compared legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States to supporting bestiality. Readers of the Savage Love advice column selected a new definition for the Senator’s last name, and Savage created a website www.spreadingsantorum.com to document the spread of the phenomenon. The term became a prominent result in searches online, and gained dominance on Web search engines including Google, Bing, and Yahoo!.Google global communications chief Gabriel Stricker commented to National Public Radio in an interview this January, that the company was avoiding editorial judgment, and that the prominence of the santorum neologism phenomenon in web searches is due to increased interest in the subject. Stricker stated, "There definitely are people who are finding this to be the best answer to their question, and they are indicating this by either clicking on this result or linking to this result as the best answer to that question."In the wake of Santorum's showing in the 2012 Iowa Republican caucuses, additional curious people looked up the former Senator on the Internet and in turn discovered the santorum neologism phenomenon. After journalist Laura Sydell of the National Public Radio program All Things Considered received criticism for covering the increased attention to the santorum neologism, she explained why the issue was relevant: "I felt it was an important and legitimate story in the wake of Mr. Santorum's success in Iowa. Although the site had been up for many years, it was only after Mr. Santorum's success in the caucuses that a large number of people were actually searching for more information about him." The Canadian Press provided a similar analysis in January — that more coverage of Santorum has led to more coverage of the neologism.Rick Santorum himself has acknowledged and discussed the existence and prevalence of the santorum neologism phenomenon, in comments to the press. He was quoted in January by The Canadian Press on his assessment of Google's response: "I suspect if something was up there like that about, say, Joe Biden, they would get rid of it. To have a business allow that type of filth to be purveyed through their website or through their system is something that they say they can't handle. I suspect that's not true." Santorum tried to alleviate the neologism's results in web searches by reaching out to Google in September, but this act only served to increase reporting and coverage of the phenomenon. In a 2011 radio interview with host Steve Malzberg, Santorum characterized the neologism as "filth". He criticized the response of the press to the phenomenon, saying, "It's offensive beyond, you know, anything that any public figure or anybody in America should tolerate, and the mainstream media laughs about it."A new website SpreadingRomney.com now appears prominently among Internet search results for Mitt Romney's last name and defines romney as: "to defecate in terror". Spreading Romney was inspired by the santorum neologism coined in advice columnist Dan Savage's column Savage Love in response to comments made by former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum about homosexuality; Savage's readers voted to define santorum as: "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex."While defining romney as a verb, the word "terror" in the definition given at SpreadingRomney.com links to an article that appeared January 5 in The Huffington Post titled "Mitt Romney's Dog Incident Comes Back To Haunt Him". The article describes a 1983 incident where Romney was reported to have affixed his family’s pet Irish setter named Seamus to the roof of their vehicle for 12 hours while on a car trip to Canada; press coverage of the matter recounted how the animal let loose its bowels due to a fear response during the experience. Similar to online searches leading to the santorum neologism website originally created by Dan Savage, SpreadingSantorum.com, queries for Romney yielding top search results for SpreadingRomney.com are not limited only to Google but extend to other search engines including Bing as well.MSNBC quoted search engine expert Danny Sullivan, who observed that the website had likely risen of late in search results: "I don’t recall seeing it recently, so it appears to be a new gain."The Atlantic reported that as of yesterday, SpreadingRomney.com had received 3,416 like button clicks from Facebook and 1,261 posts on Twitter. The site appeared third in a Google search for Romney, directly below the former Massachusetts Governor's Wikipedia page.In a 2003 interview with the Associated Press, Rick Santorum compared legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States to supporting bestiality. Readers of the Savage Love advice column selected a new definition for the Senator’s last name, and Savage created a website SpreadingSantorum.com to promulgate the spread of the phenomenon. The term became a prominent result in searches online, and gained dominance on Web search engines including Google, Bing, and Yahoo!. Rick Santorum himself has acknowledged and discussed the existence and prevalence of the santorum neologism phenomenon; he was quoted by The Canadian Press on his assessment of Google's response: "To have a business allow that type of filth to be purveyed through their website or through their system is something that they say they can't handle. I suspect that's not true." Santorum criticized the response of the press to the phenomenon in a 2011 radio interview, saying, "It's offensive beyond, you know, anything that any public figure or anybody in America should tolerate, and the mainstream media laughs about it."The company Go Daddy manages the domain name for the website SpreadingRomney.com; the site was registered by an Indianapolis, Indiana-based company named Ayokay LLC which was formed on January 1. The website reportedly started operating on January 10. Rachel Maddow commented upon it on January 12 on her program The Rachel Maddow Show. The founder of SpreadingRomney.com, Jack Shepler, informed Sullivan that he holds no ties to any political campaign group and formed the website out of a comedic motivation.New York Magazine noted that there may be another neologism this time derived from the last name of presidential candidate Newt Gingrich; linking to an established website for SpreadingGingrich.com. That site is currently asking visitors to submit suggestions for a new definition of gingrich.Yesterday, French President Nicolas Sarkozy appointed the American actor Clint Eastwood Commander of the Légion d'honneur (Legion of Honour). The country's Minister of Culture, many actors, and directors participated in events at the ceremony.In February 2009 Eastwood was awarded a Golden Palm (Palme d'Or) in Paris for his life's work — an award usually only given at the annual Cannes Film Festival. The internationally-renowned film star was born in San Francisco and described France in an interview as his second home. In 2007, then-President Jacques Chirac appointed him a Knight of the Order.Within the Légion d'honneur, founded on May 19, 1802 by Napoleon Bonaparte, are five classes of orders in addition to Grand Master, but the ranking distinguishes only the three degrees of Knight (Chevalier), Officer and Commander (Commendatore). With his appointment as Commander, 79-year-old Eastwood skips the level of Officer.The President of France Nicolas Sarkozy Monday, in a speech to a joint session of both houses of the Parliament of France, stated that the burqa "will not be welcome on the territory of the French Republic".Sarkozy's address was the first such address by a President of France to the Parliament since 1873.  Both houses met as the Congress of France in the Château de Versailles.  It was permitted by a revision to the Constitution of France that was enacted in 2008.  (Previously, rules based upon the doctrine of the separation of powers had prevented Presidents from addressing the Congress directly except in order to propose revisions to the Constitution.)In the speech, which was boycotted by the Green and Communist parties, Sarkozy said that "We cannot accept, in our country, women imprisoned behind a mesh, cut off from society, deprived of all identity. That is not the French Republic's idea of women's dignity."  He stated that the burqa "is not a sign of religion, it is a sign of subservience."Sarkozy's remarks come in the wake of his government proposing last week a Parliamentary commission to draft legislation barring the wearing of burqas by Muslim women outside of the home, and of calls by French parliamentarians, including GDR member André Gerin, and government ministers, such as Fadela Amara, for an inquiry into Muslim dress codes.Sarkozy himself stated that he was calling for a public debate. "A debate has to take place and all views must be expressed.", he said. "What better place than Parliament for this?"Dalil Boubakeur, rector of the Great Mosque of Paris, stated that some Muslims themselves also believed the burqa to be a symbol of submission, and stated that Sarkozy's remarks were "in keeping with the republican spirit of secularism".  He views the reported increase in the use of the burqa by Muslim women in France as a move towards radicalization of Islam in the country, and calls instead for an "open and convivial Islam that allows people to live side by side".Sarkozy's remarks continue an on-going controversy about Islamic dress in France. Feelings run strong in France over what is called "laïcité" a concept, enshrined in the Constitution, that embodies components of secularism, separation of churches from the state, division of the private and public spheres, preventing the government endorsement of any single religion, and (according to its critics) anti-clericalism, religious intolerance, and the endorsement by default of erstwhile official religions at the expense of the religions of immigrant communities.Sarkozy called for the public debate to focus on these issues, and not to become a debate over Islam itself.  "We must not fight the wrong battle," he said. "In the Republic, the Muslim faith must be respected as much as other religions."France is home to Western Europe's largest Islamic community, with some five million Muslims living there.In the 1980's and the 1990's there were multiple allegations of sexual abuse of children or non-consenting adults in the context of Satanic rituals that has come to be known as The Satanic Panic.  In the United States, the Kern County child abuse cases, McMartin preschool trial and the West Memphis 3 cases garnered worldwide media coverage.  One case took place in Jordan, Minnesota, when children made allegations of manufacturing child pornography, ritualistic animal sacrifice, coprophagia, urophagia and infanticide, at which point the Federal Bureau of Investigation was alerted.  Twenty-four adults were arrested and charged with acts of sexual abuse, child pornography and other crimes related to satanic ritual abuse; only three went to trial with two acquittals and one conviction.  Supreme Court Justice Scalia noted in a discussion of the case, "[t]here is no doubt that some sexual abuse took place in Jordan; but there is no reason to believe it was as widespread as charged," and cited the repeated, coercive techniques used by the investigators as damaging to the investigation.One of the most visible Satanic organizations—though one that was never a suspect or charged in any of the Satanic Panic cases—is the Church of Satan, founded by Anton LaVey.  Members of the Church, such as Peter H. Gilmore, Peggy Nadramia, Boyd Rice, Adam Parfrey, Diabolos Rex, and musician King Diamond, were active in media appearances to refute allegations of criminal activity and the FBI would later issue an official report debunking the criminal conspiracy theories of this time.  Gilmore feels Satanists are often misunderstood or misrepresented.  LaVey's teachings are based on individualism, self-indulgence, and "eye for an eye" morality, with influence from Friedrich Nietzsche and Ayn Rand; while its rituals and magic draw heavily from occultists such as Aleister Crowley. They do not worship—nor believe in—the Devil or a Christian notion of Satan.  The word "Satan" comes from the Hebrew word for "adversary" and originated from the Abrahamic faiths, being traditionally applied to an angel.  Church of Satan adherents see themselves as truth-seekers, adversaries and skeptics of the religious world around them.  On a windy October day in Central Park, Wikinews reporter David Shankbone sat down with the High Priest of the Church, Peter H. Gilmore, who has led LaVey's congregation of Satanists since his passing in 1997 (he became the High Priest in 2001).  They discussed the beliefs of the Church, current events, LaVey's children and how Satanism applies to life and the world.In a court filing Tuesday in the ongoing case before the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland, a satirical website which parodies American political commentator Glenn Beck argues Beck is attempting to silence free speech.Florida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics "to spread lies and misinformation". The website is being represented in the case Beck v. Eiland-Hall by free speech lawyer Marc Randazza. Wikinews interviewed Randazza for the article "US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza discusses Glenn Beck parody", and previously reported on the case in an article earlier this month, "US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck".Eiland-Hall's website is located at the domain "www.GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlIn1990.com". Its premise is derived from a joke statement made by Gilbert Gottfried about fellow comedian Bob Saget. Users of the Internet discussion community Fark first applied the joke to Beck, and it then became popular on several social media sites. Eiland-Hall saw the discussion on Fark, and created a website about it. The website asserts it does not believe the rumors to be true, commenting, "[b]ut we think Glenn Beck definitely uses tactics like this to spread lies and misinformation." The website was created on September 1, and just two days later attorneys for Beck's company Mercury Radio Arts took action. Beck's lawyers sent letters to the domain name registrar where they referred to the domain name itself as "defamatory", but failed to get the site removed.Beck filed a formal complaint with the Switzerland-based agency of the United Nations, WIPO, who operate under regulations laid out by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers. Beck asserts the website's usage is libelous, bad faith, and could befuddle potential consumers. Beck's complaint was filed under the process called the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy. This policy allows trademark owners to begin an administrative action by complaining that a certain domain registration is in "bad faith". Beck argues the site should be shut down because it is an infringement upon his trademark in his own name, "Glenn Beck".Eiland-Hall retained Randazza as his attorney after receiving threatening letters from legal representatives of Beck. On September 28, Randazza filed a response brief to WIPO, contending the site is "protected political speech", due to it's "satirical political humor". Randazza stated, "[e]ven an imbecile would look at this Web site and know that it’s a parody." Randazza's brief comments on Beck's style of reporting, and highlight a controversial statement made by him when interviewing a Muslim US Congressman. Beck said to Representative Keith Ellison, "I like Muslims, I've been to mosques. ... And I have to tell you, I have been nervous about this interview because what I feel like saying is, sir, prove to me that you are not working with our enemies." According to the Citizen Media Law Project, the website's joke premise takes advantage of "a perceived similarity between Beck's rhetorical style and the Gottfried routine".Randazza argues in the response filed on behalf of Eiland-Hall that Beck is using the process of the WIPO court to infringe the free speech rights of his client; "Beck is attempting to use this transnational body to circumvent and subvert the Respondent's [web site owner] constitutional rights [to freedom of speech]," he wrote. Randazza cites the U.S. Supreme Court case, Hustler Magazine v. Falwell, in arguing that Beck's attorneys advised him against filing legal action in a U.S. court because the website would likely be seen as a form of parody and due to the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, such legal action would not be successful.On September 29, Randazza sent a request to Beck's representatives, asking that their client agree to stipulate to the United States Constitution, and especially to the First Amendment, during the case before the WIPO. In the request, Randazza quotes a statement from Beck himself about the usage of international law by United States citizens, Beck said, "[o]nce we sign our rights over to international law, the Constitution is officially dead." In an interview with Wikinews on Monday, Randazza stated that Beck had not replied to his request to stipulate to the U.S. Constitution and the First Amendment in the WIPO case.On Tuesday, Randazza filed a surreply – a response document to an October 13 supplementary filing made by Beck in the case. Attorneys for Beck asserted in the supplementary filing that the joke made by the website is difficult to comprehend, and therefore the domain name is confusing. In Beck's supplementary filing, his lawyers argued, "While there is absolutely nothing humorous or amusing about the statement made by Respondent in his domain name that 'Glenn Beck Raped and Murdered a Young Girl in 1990,' the average Internet user finding the domain name GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlin1990.com ("Disputed Domain Name") in a search would have no reason not to believe that they will be directed to a website providing factual information (as opposed to protected criticism or similar protected speech) about Mr. Beck." Randazza's surreply asserts, "An average Internet user might not 'get the joke'. In fact, the average Internet user does not understand any internet memes. That's the fun of a meme - it is an esoteric inside joke that will leave most people scratching their heads."In Randazza's conclusion to the Eiland-Hall surreply, he called Beck "the butt" of a joke he apparently does not understand. Randazza wrote that Beck "should be deeply ashamed" for devaluing the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution:"Glenn Beck is the butt of a viral joke. He may not get the joke, but this does not make the joke likely to confuse or subject the domain name to transfer under the UDRP. Glenn Beck’s failure to understand these basic principles of law does not make the joke any less humorous, and does not make him any less of the butt. The First Amendment protects Respondent’s right to make Glenn Beck the butt, and his hypocritical attempts to squelch legitimate free speech criticism do nothing to portray himself in a more flattering light. Because his arguments do not satisfy Section 4(a) of the Policy, his request should be denied. Because he has attempted to silence a critic by circumventing (and thereby devaluing) the First Amendment -- which he publicly (and in this proceeding) claims to love -- he should be deeply ashamed."Commentators likened the legal conflict between Beck and the site to the Streisand effect, a phenomenon where an individual's attempt to censor material on the Internet in turn proves to make the material itself more public.The American satirist Stephen Colbert has announced that he will run for the Presidency of the United States. He made his announcement on his mock news show The Colbert Report.However, Colbert said that he would only run in his home state of South Carolina as a favorite son. He also said that he would represent both major political parties: the Republicans and the Democrats. It is not known how far Colbert will go with his character during his electoral run.Colbert has hosted The Colbert Report, a spin-off to another satirical television series, The Daily Show, since its creation in 2005.  "I didn't have a job back then.  I wonder what it was like to have a job back then.  I am sure I could ask a dentist or a surgeon.  He would know."  On the show he plays a right-wing political pundit, based on real-life pundits such as Bill O'Reilly and Stone Phillips. Colbert has been credited with popularizing certain words such as "Truthiness", meaning to believe something intuitively, without regard for actual facts, logic or evidence.Filling in for New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd on Sunday, Colbert wrote: "I am not ready to announce yet — even though it's clear that the voters are desperate for a white, male, middle-aged, Jesus-trumpeting alternative."King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia has announced women will be allowed to vote in the country and run for municipal elections there. The modifications will apply from 2012.Abdullah made this announcement at the start of a new Shura Council term. In a speech, the king said "we refuse to marginalise women in society in all roles that comply with sharia" and so made the decision "to involve women in the Shura Council as members, starting from next term". Abdullah clarified that female adults "will be able to run as candidates in the municipal election and will even have a right to vote." Such changes are to be put in place "according to Islamic principles," he said. Muslim women, he continued, "must not be marginalised in opinion or advice".Activists have sought women's right to vote in Saudi Arabia for years.  As it stands, women in Saudi Arabia cannot drive, nor travel without male permission, based on Sunni Islam principles.In an interview Monday, candidate for the 2012 Republican Party presidential nomination Rick Santorum criticized advice columnist Dan Savage and said he would pray for him. In return, Savage pointed out Santorum's controversial social conservatism positions. Santorum's disagreement with Savage stems from the santorum neologism coined in Savage's column Savage Love in response to comments made by former Pennsylvania Senator Santorum about homosexuality; Savage's readers voted to define santorum as: "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex."Former Senator Santorum was interviewed Monday by the RealClearPolitics website RealClearReligion and was asked, "If you happen to run into Dan Savage, what would you say to him?" The Republican presidential nomination candidate replied, "I would tell him that I'm praying for him. He obviously has some serious issues. You look at someone like that who can say and do the things that he's doing and you just pray for him and hopefully he can find peace."This is not the first instance where Santorum has commented publicly about Dan Savage. ThinkProgress called his most recent comments on Savage an "improvement", and noted that Santorum previously stated Savage is "below the dignity of anybody".Mother Jones magazine contacted Savage for a response to Santorum's comments. Savage emphasized Santorum's controversial positions on social issues in contrast to his "dirty joke", replying, "Rick Santorum thinks that women who have been raped should be compelled—by force of law—to carry the babies of their rapists to term, he thinks birth control should be illegal, he wants to prosecute pornographers, etc., etc., basically the guy wants to be president so that he can micromanage the sex lives of all Americans...and I'm the one with issues? Because I made a dirty joke at his expense eight or nine years ago and it stuck? I'm the one with issues?" Savage concluded, "Rick can pray for me. I'll gay for him. And we can call it even."In a subsequent piece posted to the website of the Seattle, Washington paper The Stranger, Savage elaborated on his response to Santorum. He commented, "The man who wants to get his hands on the nuclear football so he can micromanage your sex life ... thinks I have issues. That's hilarious."In a 2003 interview with the Associated Press, Rick Santorum compared legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States to supporting bestiality. Readers of the Savage Love advice column selected a new definition for the Senator’s last name, and Savage created a website SpreadingSantorum.com to promulgate the spread of the phenomenon. The term became a prominent result in searches online, and gained dominance on Web search engines including Google, Bing, and Yahoo!.Rick Santorum himself has acknowledged and discussed the existence and prevalence of the santorum neologism phenomenon; he was quoted by The Canadian Press on his assessment of Google's response: "To have a business allow that type of filth to be purveyed through their website or through their system is something that they say they can't handle. I suspect that's not true." Santorum criticized the response of the press to the phenomenon in a 2011 radio interview, saying, "It's offensive beyond, you know, anything that any public figure or anybody in America should tolerate, and the mainstream media laughs about it."Regional U.S. telephone giant SBC Communications is one step closer to offering cable television to the 18 million households in its 13 state coverage area. The company announced a $195 million contract with Scientific-Atlanta Thursday to provide a video operations center and regional hubs for the new service. Under the brand name, U-verse, the SBC's television rollout is set to launch in 2006 after field trials begin later this year.The company is seeking the so-called "triple play," where a telecommunications company offers voice, data and video in one bundled package. Local telephone companies like SBC have been losing business to cable TV companies, which have added telephone and Internet services in recent years.In a slew of recent deals, SBC is looking to stop that trend. Within the past six months it has signed alliances with various technology firms to build out a fiber network to the home strategy. For instance, SBC has a $1.7 billion deal with Alcatel to build out its fiber optic network and a 10-year, $400 million, pact with Microsoft to license its IPTV technology to allow multi-channel television to stream over its Internet backbone.In most of the U.S. only cable TV companies like Comcast have been able to offer the "triple play" of voice, video and data services. But traditional phone companies like SBC and Verizon have been upgrading their copper wire telephone networks to fiber optic. SBC says it plans to spend billions of dollars to overhaul its telecommunications network, saying the aging and brittle copper wires which were originally laid in the early 1900s do not have enough bandwidth to allow television capability.Nashville, United States —The famous sci-fi and fantasy writer Andre Norton dies aged 93 of congestive heart failure at her home in Murfreesboro, a Nashville suburb. Alice Norton (17 February 1912 – 17 March 2005) was born Alice Mary Norton in Cleveland, Ohio. She published her first novel, The Prince Commands, in 1934. A famous science fiction writer, she was the first woman to receive the Grand Master of Fantasy Award from the SFWA in 1977, and she won the Nebula Grand Master Award in 1984. Norton requested before her death that she not have a funeral service, but instead asked to be cremated along with a copy of her first and last novels.U.S. science fiction writer Ray Bradbury, who was 91, died in Los Angeles on Tuesday, according to his daughter.Bradbury's most famous novels are The Martian Chronicles (1950) and Fahrenheit 451 (1953), and a collection of short stories The Illustrated Man (1951), but he was also known for helping write the script for John Huston's film adaptation of Moby Dick (1956), his works for the televised anthologies The Twilight Zone and Alfred Hitchcock Presents and hosting a similar TV show later, The Ray Bradbury Theater, which included episodes based on his work.In an interview, Bradbury said that he was "that special freak, the man with the child inside who remembers all."He started as a short story writer for pulp magazines like many science fiction and fantasy writers in this period, and eventually compiled his first book: Dark Carnival (1947), a short story collection. He wrote his two most famous novels at the beginning of the 1950s. A book editor suggested he use his stories about Martians to create a unified work in book form, and Bradbury turned the idea into his Martian Chronicles. He said he churned out Fahrenheit 451 on a typewriter that he rented at the library for a dime every half hour at a total cost of US $9.80, which meant that it would have taken him exactly 49 hours to write the classic.His book Fahrenheit 451 cut to the heart of book banning and burning in the twentieth century as it imagined a future in which books were outlawed and minds were controlled by the state through a TV-and-Internet-like technology. French director François Truffaut adapted Fahrenheit 451 into a 1966 New Wave film of the same name and in English, which starred Austrian actor Oskar Werner as the fireman Guy Montag and British actress Julie Christie as Clarisse. The BBC dramatized the same book in 1982. Fahrenheit 451 was even adapted to an off-Broadway play. Bradbury said he did not like the similarity of Michael Moore's title for the documentary Fahrenheit 9/11, a film critical of the George W. Bush administration, to his novel about book burning.The Martian Chronicles, Fahrenheit 451 and The Illustrated Man have been a staple of reading in U.S. education. In an interview with Fox News in 2004, Bradbury talked about changes in reading that occurred in education since his generation of science fiction started their careers: "When I started writing that book [The Martian Chronicles] 53 years ago, science fiction was not being taught in the schools. Now every school in the country has a course in science fiction. So we have more power, more influence, more imagination than ever before. Millions of students now, in all the schools of America, are reading science fiction and especially, thank God, The Martian Chronicles."The name of his play Dandelion Wine was used as an honor when it was used to name a crater on the moon. An asteroid, known as 9766 Bradbury, was named after him. At the turn of the century, his body of work was recognized with a Lifetime Achievement Award from the National Book Award committee in 2000, U.S. National Medal of Arts in 2004, and later a Pulitzer Prize citation in 2007.The author's grandson Danny Karapetian said, "His legacy lives on in his monumental body of books, film, television and theatre, but more importantly, in the minds and hearts of anyone who read him, because to read him was to know him. He was the biggest kid I know."Sunday, April 10, 2005 A tiny piece of rock 4.4 billion years old went on display in Wisconsin, USA Sunday for one day only. A jazz band played music, with rocks for percussion, which they said might be appropriate for displaying the bit of zircon crystal, barely two human hairs wide.The tiny gem was found in Australia in 1984, and analyzed in 2001 by experts, and has led to the reappraisal of early Earth.University of Wisconsin–Madison geophysicist Professor John Valley said his work proved the crystal could only have formed in a low-temperature environment."The whole thing is something that captures your imagination," he told reporters."This is our first glimpse into the earliest history of the Earth. The miraculous thing about the crystal is that we've been able to make such wide-ranging inferences about the early Earth." The exhibit was under police guard. The tiny sliver will return to Australia with a professor from Curtin University of Technology in Perth, who discovered it in 1984. It will go to a museum.Recent reports have revealed that a defector from the elite group within Scientology called the Sea Org was first persuaded to travel back to a management building for the organization in California, where he was interrogated by an attorney for Scientology and then arrested.Daniel Montalvo, 19, a member of Scientology all his life, was arrested after leaving its elite group the Sea Org. He was released on US$20,000 bail on Thursday. Montalvo was charged with taking hard drives and a zip drive from the Scientology organization after leaving the Sea Org group. The Sea Org requires members to sign a billion-year-contract, agreeing to work for the organization founded by science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard for multiple lifetimes. Members of the Sea Org live a strict lifestyle – with little income, small diet provided and significant time invested in work per day.Montalvo had read an article in the Scientology propaganda publication Freedom Magazine, which attacked high-ranking defectors from the organization including Tom Devocht and Mark Rathbun. Montalvo had known Devocht personally, and came to the conclusion that the claims made about him in the Freedom article were lies. Montalvo was subsequently motivated to seek out information about Scientology on the Internet, and came upon a blog written by Rathbun. Montalvo contacted former members of Scientology, who helped him leave the organization and get in touch with Devocht. He traveled to Florida to meet with Devocht, who had told Montalvo he would assist him with future employment and housing.According to Rathbun the Scientology property in question was returned by mail to the organization by Montalvo shortly after he left the Sea Org. Scientology officials have stated they have not received the materials. After calling the Scientology organization by phone to attempt to speak with his mother, Montalvo was instead put through to a Scientology attorney, Kendrick Moxon. Rathbun wrote, "Moxon proceeded to lie to Daniel that the hard drives were never returned, and made a convincing case (not difficult to do with a 19 year old who doesn't even know the three branches of government) that Daniel would be put behind iron bars for a good long time, UNLESS of course, he returned and cooperated with Moxon and routed out properly." To "route out" in Scientology jargon refers to the member who wishes to leave proceeding through a set of interrogative exit interviews while attached to the Scientology device called the E-meter.According to Rathbun, a detective for the Los Angeles Sheriff's office was provided with material from Scientology to build a case against Montalvo. Rathbun stated, "Daniel was picked up by an investigator in a black car with blacked out windows. Instead of being taken to a hotel, where he could route out as promised, he was taken to the Century City Towers. He was deposited in an office on the 33rd floor where a pricy church lawyer interrogated him for two hours." Rathbun asserted that Scientology officials, "... plied the Sheriff's detective with a grand conspiracy theory, characterizing me as the 'anti-christ' of the church of Scientology. ... The next thing Daniel knows he's in a cell where he sat for the next 30 hours." Steve Whitmore, a representative for the LA Sheriff's office, told LA Weekly in a statement that the case involving Montalvo was being dealt with as charges relating to grand theft. Whitmore stated Montalvo left Scientology-related employment in Los Angeles on September 24. On September 29, Scientology officials went to the East Los Angeles sheriff's station where they claimed Montalvo allegedly left the organization with computer hard drives. Whitmore told LA Weekly that on October 6 after traveling back from Florida, Montalvo "walked into lobby of the East L.A. station and turned himself in", and told the police, "everything he did". Whitmore stated to LA Weekly that the alleged crime involved five hard drives each of $200 in value.Montalvo has been assisted by former members of Scientology, including musician Tiziano Lugli and actor Jason Beghe. Rathbun requested donations via a statement made on his blog, in order to help Montalvo with his legal defense financing. He described Montalvo as an individual, "facing the penitentiary in thanks for the following sins: a) Leaving a lifehood of slavery to get a taste of freedom and the world. b) Refusing - despite every provocation and incentive and threat - to frame three guys who went out of their ways (and dipped into their pockets) to help the kid achieve that freedom."The Internet group Anonymous today held further protests critical of the Church of Scientology.The global protests started in Australia where several hundred protesters gathered at different locations for peaceful protests.In a global speech, the Internet protest movement said Scientology "betrayed the trust of its members, [had] taken their money, their rights, and at times their very lives." The protesters welcomed the public interest their protests have led to, and claimed they witnessed "an unprecedented flood of Scientologists [joining] us across the world to testify about these abuses." The group said it would continue with monthly actions.In a press statement from its European headquarters, Scientology accused the anonymous protesters of "hate speech and hate crimes", alleging that security measures were necessary because of death threats and bomb threats. This also makes the Church want to "identify members" of the group it brands as "cyber-terrorists".Wikinews had correspondents in a number of protest locations to report on the events.Anonymous states that the next protest is scheduled to take place on April 18, which happens to be the birthday of Suri, the daughter of Tom and Katie Cruise.The Calabasas, California private elementary school New Village Leadership Academy (NVLA) opened its 2009–10 school year this week amid controversy over its connections to Scientology.  The school was founded by celebrity couple Will Smith and Jada Pinkett-Smith, who paid about US$1 million to lease the facility in 2008.  Former head of school Jacqueline Olivier was removed from her job in July, and replaced by Piano Foster, an individual who has taken Scientology courses at the organization's Celebrity Centre.Smith and Pinkett-Smith are good friends with Scientologists Katie Holmes and her husband Tom Cruise. In 2006, Smith acknowledged to World Entertainment News Network that he had discussed Scientology with Cruise: "I've talked to Tom about it. [There’s] lots of incredible, wonderful concepts but Jada and I don't necessarily believe in organized religion." ABC News reported that 2008 tax returns for the Smiths show they gave $122,500 to organizations with ties to the Church of Scientology.In an interview with Ebony, Pinkett-Smith denied the school was affiliated with Scientology: "All I can say is it is not a Scientology school. Now, If you don't trust me, and you are questioning my integrity, that's a whole different matter. That is straight evil to think I would bring families into that educational institution and then try to get them to convert into some religion," she said. According to New York Daily News, the school is registered with the government of California as "non-religious". The school utilizes a teaching methodology called Study Technology, which was developed by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard. Study Technology is promoted through Applied Scholastics, a Scientology-associated organization founded in 1972. "Study Technology is a secular methodology intended to help students better understand what is being studied and apply it to real life," said Pinkett-Smith in an email to ABCnews.com. Karin Pouw, an official with the Church of Scientology, was contacted by ABC News but did not comment on a possible affiliation between NVLA and Scientology, instead referring questions back to the school itself. New York Daily News cited Radar Online in reporting that former head of school Olivier was fired from her position because she had issues with the Study Tech teaching methodology used in the school. According to The Sydney Morning Herald, Olivier was removed from her $200,000 position with the school because she reportedly did not agree with portions of the school's curriculum which were developed by L. Ron Hubbard.Carnegie Mellon University computer science Professor David S. Touretzky, described by ABC News as "the most ardent critic of Study Technology", spoke with ABCNews.com about his thoughts on Scientology connections with the school: "What they seem to have is some sort of a hybrid. Scientology repackaged for the Hollywood crowd. It's hitting all the politically correct elements ... but snuck in there is this Scientology stuff." Professor Touretzky operates a web site which analyzes Study Tech and argues that it is actually a form of Scientology masked as an educational method. In a February 2008 interview with Wikinews, Professor Touretzky mused that recent criticism of Scientology on the Internet might prove to "warn off Hollywood celebs from cozying up to the cult", including Will Smith.Executive director of the California Association of Independent Schools, Jim McManus, was also critical of L. Ron Hubbard's methodology, stating: "I look at the Study Tech ideas and it doesn't seem sound educationally." University of Virginia psychology professor Dan Willingham, author of Why Don't Students Like School, asserted to ABC News that the methodology is flawed: "It's perfectly possible that the methodology is based on ridiculous principles and that something effective is happening in the classroom, but ridiculous principles certainly lowers that possibility."Members of the Internet-based group critical of Scientology, Project Chanology, were present at the school's 2009 opening to protest what they called a "front" of the Church of Scientology. A 2008 press release by Project Chanology was critical of what it referred to as the revenue the Church of Scientology receives from licensing fees schools pay the organization for utilizing the Study Tech teaching methodology. "This revenue stream is one of the many sources of income which the Church of Scientology uses for such tactics as invoking frivolous lawsuits and hiring private investigators to intimidate critics," said the press release.According to the web site TruthAboutScientology.com, which publishes data compiled from Scientology magazines Freewinds, Celebrity and Auditor, multiple individuals in management roles at NVLA have attended Scientology classes. In addition to the newly installed head of school, Piano Foster, the school's director of learning Tasia Jones and its artistic director Sisu Raiken have both received Scientology course training. "I officially took over on July 1, 2009, and I'm looking forward to the challenge. I've been working in education for the past 20 years at various public and charter schools so I feel I'm ready for the job," said Foster of her new position at NVLA.Martin Scorsese's violent epic The Departed captured the Best Picture of 2006 at the 79th Annual Academy Awards, held Sunday evening in Los Angeles. The Warner Bros. movie also won three other Oscars, including Best Director for Scorsese (his first ever award), Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Film Editing.The musical Dreamgirls, which headed into the awards ceremony with the most nominations, managed to score only two Oscars for Best Supporting Actress (Jennifer Hudson) and Best Sound Mixing.Among the other winners were Alan Arkin (Best Supporting Actor, Little Miss Sunshine) and Helen Mirren (Best Actress, The Queen). Forest Whitaker won the award for Best Actor for his performance in The Last King of Scotland), denying Peter O'Toole an Oscar for the eighth time (not counting an honorary Oscar won in 2003). The acclaimed documentary An Inconvenient Truth (conceived by former Vice President Al Gore about global warming) won the Best Documentary Feature award, and Happy Feet won for Best Animated Feature. The Mexican film Pan's Labyrinth was the second most awarded film with three Oscars (Cinematography, Makeup, Art Direction).The Scottish national rugby union team has defeated the English equivalent 15-9 to win the Calcutta Cup.The match was played in wet and windy conditions at Murrayfield and was refereed by Jonathan Kaplan. Chris Paterson  kicked four penalties and Dan Parks kicked another to give Scotland their 15 points. All nine of England's points came from penalties kicked by Jonny Wilkinson.Rory Lamont was taken to hospital during the first half on a stretcher having had a collision with Iain Balshaw that saw the Englishman's knee strike the Scotsman's head. He regained consciousness before going to hospital.Scotland had been expected to lose after poor performances in their previous three Six Nations Championship games this year.In a reprise of the dour Presbyterian Minister character the Reverend I.M. Jolly, created by the late comedian Rikki Fulton, Scotland's First Minister, Alex Salmond, took part in the BBC's annual charity appeal for Children in Need.Last year the BBC's appeal raised approximately £37 million, and by 11pm last night the total raised had exceeded £10 million. The BBC hopes to break last year's telethon total and final figures will not be available for some time.The three minute skit was part of BBC Scotland's presentation of the charity appeal and was met with laughter from the Glasgow studio audience when the pre-recorded message was broadcast. The I.M. Jolly character was well-known in Scotland from having a spot on the Hogmanay (New Year's eve) schedule; in keeping with Fulton's terminally depressed character Salmond opened with the catchprase, "Hullo. It's been a helluva year".The sketch gave Salmond an opportunity to be self-deprecating as well as poke fun at his predecessor in the office of First Minister, Jack McConnell, "I would like to pay tribute to the previous incumbent of the first ministership, the Right Reverend Jack McConnell. And I would also like to thank him for the present of fish he left me in Bute House ...under the floorboards." As a further jab at McDonald he joked that he and his wife "had a great time too, replacing all the light bulbs he had taken with him."In reference to the fortunes of his party, the SNP, Salmond described by-election campaigns in Glasgow East and Glenrothes as "evangelical crusades" which, "had gone down well in Glasgow East - but "slightly less well in Glenrothes".Closing the "Last Call" segment he appealed for donations, "Please dig deep - it's for the weans."The death of Scottish artist Alan Davie was announced on Sunday. Davie, 93, was known for his colourful abstract paintings.Davie's career also saw turns as a jeweler, a jazz musician, a lecturer, and a poet. Born in Grangemouth, near Falkirk, in 1920, he studied painting from 1938 to 40 at Edinburgh College of Art. His father was a teacher who dabbled in art and his mother's family was musically inclined. Upon seeing Coleman Hawkins performing in a music shop in Edinburgh, Davie borrowed £600 from his father to buy himself a saxophone. After serving in the Second World War, at which time he wrote much poetry later transcribed by his father, Davie toured with Scottish jazz bands.Davie's work was admired by the likes of Jackson Pollock, Mark Rothko and David Hockney. Davie himself collected non-Western art and liked tattoos, graffiti, and 'outsider art'. His final interview before death, with The Telegraph, gave an insight into how he viewed art: "It's an urge, an intensity, a kind of sexual need[...] something I do from an inner compulsion, that has to come out." He initially avoided painting as a career at all, then spent several years earning money by other means whilst his paintings failed to sell. His exhibitions in the late 1950s, however, were highly successful and launched his career. He was in the habit of choosing titles for his art only after completion.Despite a strong presence owing to his lengthy red beard and off-beat humour, he was shy; his international fame waned. Recent years have seen a revival of interest with price increases for his early art. London alone is host to three exhibitions  this month including at the Tate.Tate Britain calls Davie "one of the first British artists after the war to develop an expressive form of abstraction" producing "kaleidoscopic canvases[...] that the artist relates to his love of jazz".Scottish based game-developer Realtime Worlds entered administration today following low sales of their online shooter game, All-Points Bulletin (APB).Between 60 and 170 jobs will be lost, and a total closure of their US office has been announced. APB will stay online to gamers who have already purchased the game. The company's administrators are Begbies TraynorA former employee heavily criticised the company's business plans, saying "[t]he problem was that management looked at the revenue they wanted to generate and priced accordingly, failing to realise (or care) that there are literally a dozen top quality, subscription free team based shooters. Many of which, now, have progression and persistence of some sort – for free... The sheer time spent and money it took to make APB is really a product of fairly directionless creative leadership."The game's early announcement, over-reliance on one product and "letting the details emerge along the way, rather than being planned out beyond even a rudimentary form," were also blamed. The company now seeks to restructure, with an aim to provide support for the new game and to work on their next release, Project: My World. This social networking game is still intended to be released, although The Courier reports that every member of the development team is now jobless.The Scottish Football Association has apologised after fans booed the Liechtenstein national team during their national anthem at last night's Euro 2012 qualifier. A section of the Scottish fans started to jeer the anthem due to its similarity to God Save the Queen.Acting chief executive George Peat said in a statement that "I was embarrassed and extremely disappointed by the disgraceful behaviour of some of our supporters during the Liechtenstein national anthem at Hampden Park last night". He added "I apologise unreservedly to our visitors for the crass reaction to their anthem."Scotland defeated Liechtenstein 2-1 to win them three points. Mario Frick scored first for Liechtenstein just after the start of the second half, but Kenny Miller later scored off the bar to equalise the game. In the final minutes of extra time Stephen McManus scored with a header to put Scotland to the top of Group I.Scottish  football team Hibernian F.C. (Hibs) have appointed Pat Fenlon as their new manager. Fenlon signed the contract at Hibs' Easter Road home ground in the capital, Edinburgh. Fenlon left Bohemian F.C., an Irish football team he managed since 2008, so that he could manage Hibernian, which he is "really excited by". Fenlon's management career has previously remained in his native Ireland. From 2002, Fenlon managed Shelbourne F.C., which won the UEFA Cup in three of the five seasons he managed the team for. Fenlon went on to manage Derby City in 2007 before taking the managing position at Bohemians. According to Fenlon, Hibernian are "a club with a rich history and proud traditions." Fenlon's Hibs contract will last until the conclusion of 2013 / 2014 football season.Hibs have now had five managers in as many years. Colin Calderwood is the most recent before Fenlon, being removed from his position on November 6 after twelve months managing the team. In that time they played in forty-nine matches and won in twelve of them. Calderwood has since gone on to become part of Birmingham City F.C., a football team based in the English city of Birmingham.At the end of the previous football season, Hibernian F.C. placed tenth. As it stands, the team are currently ninth in the Scottish Premier League table. In reference to what he called the "quality players on Hibernian's playing staff", Fenlon stated that "there will need to be a lot of hard work and a clear change in mindset shown collectively by the team" and that a major target for them will be "to provide winning football to the Hibernian supporters, who have gone through some hard times recently."Scottish football player Phil O'Donnell has died today after collapsing during a game in which his team Motherwell F.C., of which he was captain, were playing Dundee United in a Scottish Premier League match.O'Donnell collapsed as his substitution for Marc Fitzpatrick was being arranged. He received treatment for around five minutes before being stretchered off and transferred to a waiting ambulance. David Clarkson, O'Donnell's nephew, was also playing at the time and had scored twice but was taken off due to being visibly distressed by O'Donnel's collapse.Medics from both teams believed he had suffered a seizure. Attempts were made in the ambulance to revive him, but these failed and he was pronounced dead at 17:18 GMT, having been taken to Wishaw General Hospital.Born on March 25, 1972 O'Donnell made his debut for Motherwell in 1990, and scored the following year in the final of the Scottish Cup, which Motherwell defeated Dundee United 4-3 in. In 1993 he earned his only international cap for Scotland as a substitute in a World Cup qualification match against Switzerland.The following year he was bought by Celtic for £1.75 million ($3.5 million). He stayed with them for five years, after which he was transferred to Sheffield Wednesday. A high number of injuries caused Sheffield Wednesday to release him after four years, and the next year, 2004, then Motherwell manager Terry Butcher awarded him an 18-month contract. In 2006 he was appointed captain, and in April the following year, upon the expiration of his original contract, signed a new one as a player-coach.Motherwell chairman Bill Dickie said "Unfortunately I can confirm very, very sad news that Phil O'Donnell has lost his life. We don't know what it was, but there will be a post-mortem. This is a tragic happening and that's all I can say."Motherwell owner John Boyle told the press "Everyone at Motherwell is shocked to the core, and we are sure that everyone involved in Scottish football will feel the same. Phil was not only an inspirational player for Motherwell and club captain, but was an inspirational person. All of us at Motherwell are thinking of his wife Eileen and their four children."Mark McGhee, manager of the team, said "I don't want to say anything more than how devastated everyone at the club is for his wife and his young children. That's what we are all feeling tonight, nothing else matters. Obviously from the club's point of view, we'll gather round to give his family as much support as they need." In a press conference given at the hospital, Motherwell chief executive Ian Stillie said "The management, directors, players and fans are all stunned and having great difficulty in comprehending what has happened over the last few hours. At this stage we do not have all the facts surrounding the tragic death of Phil O'Donnell. We have been in contact with Phil's wife Eileen and his family and they have given us their blessing to speak to the media tonight. Phil collapsed during the second half of the game today. He was standing alone at the time. He was immediately attended to by Motherwell's club doctor and assisted by Dundee United's club doctor. He was transferred almost immediately to an awaiting ambulance and taken to Wishaw General. It is believed Phil suffered some form of seizure and was pronounced dead at 1718." Gordon Smith, Scottish Football Association chief executive, told reporters "This is absolutely devastating news. Phil was not just a wonderful footballer, he was a great human being. My thoughts are with his family at this tragic time." Meanwhile, Celtic chief executive Peter Lawwell said "When the news came through, everyone at the club was obviously shocked. Our thoughts are with his family to whom we offer extreme condolences for a tragic loss of a young life. Everyone at Celtic Park will mourn him."Scottish poet Edwin Morgan has died at the age of 90. The cause of death was announced as pneumonia. Morgan's writing career spanned for more than 60 years. He was Scotland's first national poet, known as the "Scots Makar". His death was confirmed by his publisher.Born in Glasgow in 1920, Morgan grew up in Rutherglen. He later returned to his birth town where he studied at Glasgow University in 1937.Morgan published his first book, The Vision of Cathkin Braes, in 1952.  He later began to write experimental poetry.  In the early 1960s, Morgan published The Second Life, a book that would boost his career.  From Glasgow to Saturn, a collection about space exploration, was published shortly after The Second Life.  Both of these books would later be taught in Scottish schools.  Later in his career, Morgan received several awards for his work.  In 1999, he became Glasgow's first Poet Laureate, and he was awarded the Queen's Gold Medal for Poetry a year later.  In 2001, he was awarded the Weidenfeld Prize for Translation.By the time Morgan was named the "Scots Makar" in 2004, he had been diagnosed with cancer and was living in a nursing home. Despite the illness Morgan continued to write, even writing about the disease.Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond paid tribute to Morgan saying that he was  "a truly a great man, an exceptional poet, and an inspiration". He added that "Much-loved in Scotland and indeed around the world, his work tackled all manner of global issues and major historical events closer to home. His passion for observing all aspects of Scottish life shone a spotlight on Scotland for the rest of the world".Jai McDowall, a Scottish man who works as an assistant to disabled individuals and performs a singing act, has been declared as the winner of the fifth series of televised talent competition Britain's Got Talent, broadcast on ITV1 in the United Kingdom. The final took place on Saturday night. As the winner of the show, McDowall will receive a prize of £100,000 (US$164,270, €112,252), as well being able to participate at the Royal Variety Performance - which will be attended by British Royal Family senior members - later this year.In the final, McDowall - who lives in the South Ayrshire village of Tarbolton - had sung To Where You Are, which was originally performed by Josh Groban. McDowall's victory was calculated via a public telephone voting system. The number of votes he received was a margin of under three per cent greater than the act who achieved second place: a 12-year-old male singer named Ronan Parke. According to BBC News Online, Parke had been considered the most likely act to win this series by bookmakers. A short time after his victory was announced, McDowall commented that he was feeling "absolutely amazing, fantastic...it's so much more, absolutely so much more". When interviewed afterwards, Parke said he "loved it, thank you to everyone who voted. Congratulations, Jai." Simon Cowell acknowledged "there was going to be a shock result" and that McDowall "wasn't one of the favourites coming in but tonight we could feel he nailed the song. He came in believing that he could win and I think he's a worthy winner." Meanwhile, on-air, judge Amanda Holden admitted that she "really, really wanted Ronan to win." The finale consisted of one programme featuring the finalists performing, which was broadcast from 1900 - 2100 BST (1800 - 2000 UTC) and a second programme, announcing the positions of the finalists; the latter was broadcast later in the night, from 2130 - 2200 BST (2030 - 2100 UTC). The programme also featured performances from two guests. Jackie Evancho, who achieved second place in the fifth season of America's Got Talent, performed Nessun dorma on the first programme. US singer-songwriter Nicole Scherzinger, scheduled to appear as a judge on The X Factor (U.S.), appeared in the second show and performed Right There, the latest single to be released from her.In the run-up to the final, five semi-finals were broadcast live on ITV1 each night from Monday to Friday. A total of 41 acts appeared between them. British stand-up comedian Michael McIntyre and American actor David Hasselhoff made their debut appearances on the show's panel, alongside British actress Amanda Holden, who has judged for all the series so far, and British music executive Simon Cowell, who only judged for the semi-finals and the final.Earlier in the week, an unidentified Internet blogger, who stated that they were an employee of music corporation Sony Music UK, claimed that the programme had been unfairly pre-arranged due to Parke allegedly being familiar with Cowell and Syco for two years, already having a record contract, as well as prior arrangements being made for his appearance, including his clothing, hairstyle and behaviour. Parke achieved the largest number of public votes in the semi-final he appeared in on Monday, allowing him to earn his place in Saturday's final.On the fifth Britain's Got Talent semi-final on Friday, Cowell addressed these allegations and publicly denied them, stating: "There has been an allegation made in the papers - not in the papers actually, on the internet by somebody - that Ronan Parke had a previous recording contract with my record label, that I'd met him beforehand, both of which are complete and utter lies. The first time I met Ronan was the first time he appeared on this show. He entered the show of his own accord. He's 12 years old. This is a deliberate smear campaign."In a statement, Syco - a British entertainment company which Cowell is the chief executive officer of - responded by claiming that "[t]here is no truth in this story whatsoever. Ronan first came to Syco/Sony's attention when he entered this year's competition. Syco/Sony Music will not hesitate to take whatever legal action is appropriate to prevent further publication of these unfounded allegations." The Metropolitan Police Service have also reported that "[a]n allegation of malicious communications was made to Kensington and Chelsea police on Thursday 2 June" and that "[t]he allegation is being considered." In an interview with BBC Radio Norfolk, Maggie Parke - Ronan's mother - called the allegations "laughable" as there "couldn't be further from the truth". "There's no foundation in it whatsoever," said Maggie.In the final, Parke performed a cover of the Kelly Clarkson song Because of You and placed second in the contest, behind McDowall. However, British tabloid newspaper News of the World has reported the intentions of Sony Music Entertainment to provide a record contract for the 12-year-old singer, allegedly valued at £1,000,000 (US$1,641,681, €1,123,711). Speaking to the paper, a source familiar with Cowell commented: "We are not going to let malicious claims about Ronan impact his entire career. That would not be fair. The fact is, he is a little star. He’s like our Justin Bieber. He launched his career on the internet. He is self-made." Musical manager Jonathan Shalit claimed that Parke "will be the most successful BGT winner ever, bigger than Bieber. I'd take him to Hollywood, straight to Disney." A source related to Britain's Got Talent cited the aforementioned fix allegations for Parke's failure to win the series, mentioning: "Sadly, the result had nothing to do with Ronan’s talent. A lot of people believed the completely false smears on the internet and wanted to punish Simon as a result. The public are against him at the moment. This was their revenge."A London-based act named New Bounce achieved third place in the competition. Their act consists of four male singers: Mitchell, aged 16, 12-year-old MJ, Kuan, aged 13 and James, aged 12. In the final, the group performed a cover of the Bill Withers song Ain't No Sunshine. Simon Cowell subsequently compared their potential to that of JLS, who have achieved number 1 on music charts, claiming that "[t]his is a group that would work in the real world".Other acts who appeared in the final included Michael Collings, who is also a singer and plays a guitar for his act. Razy Gogonea performed a form of breakdancing known as body-popping. James Hobley was also an act who danced, performing contemporary dance routines. Steven Hall was another dancer, albeit one who performed for comedic effect, dancing to the sounds of various famous pop music tracks and lip-syncing the lyrics. Les Gibson performed a comedy act involving him making impressions of various celebrities, with Cowell, McIntyre and Hasselhoff amongst them, as well as Ant & Dec, who host the programme. Paul Gbegbaje and Jean Martyn were both musical acts, with the former playing the piano and the latter using an organ to make music. Gbegbaje played piano music which he had composed himself, while Martyn performed a medley of songs, amongst which was the John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John song You're the One That I Want. Martyn sang along to the song but was not clearly audible due to the absence of a microphone during her performance. She later explained that her performance had been previously rehearsed without the singing included. Below is a table addressing the rank the finalists of the fifth series of Britain's Got Talent achieved in Saturday's final.In the Central Lowlands of Scotland, the University of Dundee is to become the first university in the United Kingdom to provide degrees in comic studies. The university has said that courses for its comic studies subject within the English section will commence in September 2011.The city of Dundee is known to be the headquarters for D. C. Thomson & Co., a publishing company whose works include various comic books, such as The Beano, The Broons, The Dandy and Oor Wullie. Dr. Chris Murray, a leading British authority on comic books, will be leading the comic studies programme. "This is a very exciting time for comics scholarship, and I am delighted to be able to offer this postgraduate course on comics," he explained. "This is a unique opportunity to give this important medium the attention it deserves, and to allow those with an interest in comics to study it in detail."Those organising courses for the degree believe that comic books now appeal to adults as well as children due to their impact in the areas of politics, art and literature, as well as aspects of popular culture. Amongst the program will be the examinations of comics of an autobiographical nature and similarities with the culture of comic books on an international scale. Students who complete the Master of Letters learning program — running either full-time for a year and two-years if done part-time — will be eligible for a Doctor of Philosophy in comic studies.Dr. Murray has also noted: "Employability is an important consideration for any postgraduate programme, and it lies at the heart of what we aim to do with this course. There will be practical advice on publishing and developing a career as a comics scholar, writer or artist, and we hope to arrange work placements for students. Comics and graphic novels are becoming an increasingly important form of literature, art and field of study, and it is our intention that our graduates are at the forefront either as researchers, writers, artists or filling other roles within the industry."A Scottish woman, appearing as a contestant on the UK television reality show Britain's Got Talent, has stunned audiences around the globe. Her appearance, which can be seen on YouTube, shocked the show's judges and the theatre audience.47-year-old Susan Boyle from Blackburn, West Lothian, in Scotland, made her debut appearance on the show on Saturday night by saying that she had "never been married, never been kissed" and was currently unemployed, living alone at home with her cat, Pebbles. She says that she wants to "be a professional singer", but has "never been given the chance." Audience members and judges Amanda Holden, Simon Cowell and Piers Morgan, first laughed and even poked fun at her.Boyle then stunned the judges and audience, getting a standing ovation, with her performance of I Dreamed a Dream from the award winning musical performance Les Misérables. Cowell called her performance "extraordinary" while Morgan called it "the biggest surprise I've had in three years of this show. I am shocked." Holden even admitted that "everyone was against you [Boyle]" and that "we were all being very cynical."People from around the globe have also gotten a glimpse of her performance. As of April 15, after just four days, her performance has been viewed over 9,000,000 times on YouTube, becoming YouTube's most 'popular' video, and the most viewed of the week. Within 48 hours, she already had a fan site on the world wide web. Boyle's performance is also currently the top search result on Google's search engine when entering the song title.It is not yet known when Boyle will appear next on the show. Assuming she qualifies for the latter stages, her second performance is likely to be aired in late May — there are 25 episodes in the season, and so far only two episodes have aired. The show is in its third season.The Screen Actors Guild™ recently announced the nominees for its 14th annual SAG Awards™.Nominated for "Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture" are Brokeback Mountain, Capote, Crash, Good Night, and Good Luck., and Hustle & Flow."Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role" includes Russell Crowe (Cinderella Man), Philip Seymour Hoffman Capote, Heath Ledger Brokeback Mountain, Joaquin Phoenix Walk the Line, and David Strathairn Good Night, and Good Luck. This continues last year's trend of highly nominated biopic portrayals. This year's historical figures were boxer James J. Braddock, writer Truman Capote, and singer Johnny Cash, and broadcast journalist Edward R. Murrow."Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role" nominees are Judi Dench (Mrs. Henderson Presents), Felicity Huffman (Transamerica), Charlize Theron (North Country), Reese Witherspoon (Walk the Line), Ziyi Zhang (Memoirs of a Geisha).NBC newcomer My Name is Earl faces off against longtime award-magnet Everyone Loves Raymond in the "Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series" category. Also nominated are Desperate Housewives, Curb Your Enthusiasm, Arrested Development, and Boston Legal.The cat's drama equivilent sees nominees like The West Wing, Six Feet Under, LOST, Grey's Anatomy, and TNT's The Closer. Female dramatic actors include movie-turned-television personalities like Sandra Oh (Grey's Anatomy), Geena Davis (Commander in Chief), and Patricia Arquette (Medium).Other nominees of note include Alan Alda, famous for his role in M*A*S*H, who now plays presidential candidate Arnold Vinnick, Candice Bergen, formerly of Murphy Brown, who now plays Shirley Schmidt on Boston Legal, and Star Trek alumni William Shatner, who acts the role of Denny Crane, also on Boston Legal.Shirley Temple Black will receive Screen Actors Guild Awards 42st Annual Life Achievement Award. Temple is considered by many to be the most famous child actor in history. She is currently an American diplomat.Then-Screen Actors Guild President Melissa Gilbert said, "I can think of no one more deserving of this year’s SAG Life Achievement award than Shirley Temple Black. Her contributions to the entertainment industry are without precedent; her contributions to the world are nothing short of inspirational... In everything she has done and accomplished, Shirley Temple Black has demonstrated uncommon grace, talent and determination, not to mention compassion and courage... She has been an indelible influence on my life. She was my idol when I was a girl and remains my idol today."This will be new president Alan Rosenberg's first time at the helm of the ceremonies.Final ballots for the SAG Awards are due by 12 Noon PT, Friday, January 27, 2006. The awards will be broadcast Sunday, January 29, 2006, on TNT and TBS."We're extremely pleased to present such a unique course at VAB," group president Keith Moreau commented. "Alvaro is a master of his craft, and students are sure to benefit immensely from the experience."Alvaro has specialized in maquettes for 16 years, creating sculptures used by companies including Disney, Pixar, and Marvel Comics. His works have served as reference for animators, and as prototypes for toys. Some of his most recent work is for the Disney-Pixar film Cars, which will was released today in theatres. Cervantes has taught the workshop at Oakville's Sheridan College, home of a respected Animation BA program.The meet-and-greet is free for everyone. The timing and price of the course will be established by Wednesday.The Visual Arts Brampton Creative Studio is located in the Bartley's Square Mall, at the corner of Hurontario and Steeles Avenue. The studio is the only suite in the lower level, and is accessible through a glassed in lobby.For more information on the meet-and-greet or the course, contact visualartsbrampton@gmail.com, or phone 905-453-9142.The Red Bull Flugtag, an event that is hosted by 55 cities around the world, today returned to London, England's Hyde Park for the second time in the event's history. Wikinews was at the waterside of The Serpentine to report on the events of the day.Darwin's Ltd. opened a second location of their sandwich shop at 1613 Cambridge Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in late May. It is situated across from Cambridge Rindge and Latin School. Previously limited to one location at 148 Mount Auburn Street, the second store seats approximately 30 people and sells sandwiches, coffee drinks, locally made pastries, as well as some produce and snack foods. The establishment also provides free wireless access through the WanderingWifi service. The shop plays music during the day; during this reporter's visit to the shop, selections played ranged from David Bowie to The Strokes. The store is air-conditioned.Key differences between the original store and the new one include the unification of the cafe and the sandwich line now behind one counter, handicap accessible restrooms, no beer or wine sold at location, and a lack of a loyal customer base. Although the recent months have been slow, business is expected to pick up with the return of Cambridge area students this autumn. While the original location of Darwin's was recently cited for lacking sneeze guards before the kitchen counter, according to the Cambridge Chronicle, the new Darwin's has acrylic sheets along the front of their sandwich counter. The original Darwin's has installed the sneeze guard at the kitchen counter the day following citation.Stand-up comedian and sitcom star Jerry Seinfeld was "honored" Sunday in an HBO TV special entitled "Jerry Seinfeld: The Comedian Award," hosted by CNN's Anderson Cooper and featuring fellow comedians Robert Klein, Chris Rock, and Garry Shandling as panel members.A several minute recording of Mr. Seinfeld's stand-up started off the event, but the focus was on the panel discussion. Topics included Jerry's decision to re-enter the world of stand-up comedy post-Seinfeld, his and Shandling's first gigs on The Tonight Show, and the panelists' typical methods for creating and presenting material. Klein also shared colorful anecdotes regarding his late mentor, Rodney Dangerfield.Though the Las Vegas ceremony was taped in 2005, for reasons not known its inaugural airing was not until now, several years later. Although HBO execs claim it was not originally intended for broadcast, the panelists referred to the event on-camera as a "TV show".Perhaps some of Seinfeld's derisive on-camera commentary is to blame for the delay. "Your whole career as a comedian is about making fun of pretentious, high-minded, self-congratulatory, B.S. events like this one," he explained in his cutting acceptance speech as Cooper laughed uncomfortably with the crowd. "I really don't want to be up here."This, after long-time colleague Robert Klein praised Mr. Seinfeld's lack of reliance on "mean-spirited" or "vulgar" humor. Klein sought to draw contrast between Jerry and Seinfeld co-creator Larry David, whose Curb Your Enthusiasm generates laughs from the sociopathic behavior of David's character.Explaining that he and the other panelists were only in attendance because they owed HBO for getting them their starts, Seinfeld seemed to prove Klein wrong. "Awards are stupid," he said repeatedly. "It's a jerkoff."The show's debut was April 1 at 9 p.m. ET/PT, and it is also available on HBO's On Demand service.Serbia's entry, Molitva (A Prayer), performed by 23-year-old Marija Šerifović, has won the 2007 Eurovision Song Contest in Helsinki, Finland, with a score of 268 points.Second place was claimed by the Ukrainian drag queen Verka Serduchka, and third place went to the Russian entry of Serebro. Turkey took the fourth place with Shake It Up Shekerim. Greece with Sarbel's Yassou Maria came 7th as the first Western-European country, while Ireland took only 5 points, finishing below France and the United Kingdom which shared the second-last place.16 out of 24 finalists came from Eastern Europe, which caused many Western European countries to doubt the possibility that a country from Western Europe could ever win the final. Although France, the U.K., Spain and Germany are the big sponsors of the festival and are automatically selected for the final round, they all ended up at the bottom of the ranking. The fact that affiliated countries vote for each other (neighbourhood countries such as Scandinavian, Balkan  or ex-Soviet countries) is also an annually returning matter discussed in the media.A record 42 countries entered the 52nd edition of the Eurovision Song Contest, but 18 didn't make it through the selection rounds. Serbia competed as an independent country for the first time, separate from Montenegro or Bosnia-Herzegovina, and immediately won the competition. This year's edition was the first to host new styles like jazz side by side with traditional ballads and rock. The winning song was also the first non-English song to win since the transsexual artist Dana International won for Israel in 1998.The competition took place in Finland because last year the Finnish hard rock song 'Hard Rock Hallelujah' by Lordi won the competition. The song kicked off the final in Helsinki. Hosts were Jaana Pelkonen and Mikko LeppilampiAfter the victory, many Serbs took to the streets with flags to celebrate the victory. Aleksandar Tijanic, director of RTS state television, was glad that Serbia made the news in a positive way: "I'm so glad it wasn't some war song. Hosting this event in Belgrade next year will mean we have finally crossed into normality." The country is still sometimes associated with the Yugoslav wars which led to the disintegration of Former Yugoslavia.File:Sergey Mikhalkov.jpgSergey Mikhalkov, a well-known Russian childrens poet and a writer, died on Thursday in Moscow after a heart attack in February.He is lyricist for both the anthem of the USSR (with Gabriel El-Registan) and the anthem of Russia.  Born in 1913 in the Russian Empire, he lived a long life and gained high popularity in the USSR and respect in modern Russia.In 1962 he founded Fitil, a Soviet satirical TV series about life in the USSR.His poems about Uncle Styopa became popular among children. He was also a scriptwriter for some animation films and films.He is the father of Nikita Mikhalkov and Andrey Konchalovsky, notable Russian film directors and producers.He was awarded three Stalin Prizes (1941, 1942, 1950), Order of Lenin, a 2nd class Order For Service to Fatherland (2003) and others. He is considered a Hero of Socialist Labour.His funeral is scheduled to take place tomorrow, at the Christ The Saviour Cathedral in Moscow.After "Elmo Makes Music" played for four days at the Everett Events Center in Everett, Washington, Sesame Street Live wrapped up all of its North American dates in its 27th season.After a three week break, Sesame Street Live will start the new season in Rochester, Minnesota on August 24.By far the longest running touring stage show, Sesame Street Live has played in 19 countries worldwide since its debut in 1980. During the summer, "Super Grover! Ready for Action" will tour Bangkok and Metro Manila. The performances star professional dancers in character costumes based on the ever-popular Sesame Street Muppets.Next year VEE Corporation, which runs SSL, will launch a new show: "When Elmo Grows Up". The show's first performance will be in La Crosse, Wisconsin on August 23 this year. "Super Grover! Ready for Action" will become a theatre tour, allowing it to play in cities without an arena large enough for the original production. "Elmo Makes Music" will continue to tour arenas across the continent.PBS has recently decided it was time their Cookie Monster was sent on a diet. Sesame Street's cookie-loving Muppet icon developed a sudden interest in vegetables, as part of PBS's drive to instill a healthy lifestyle in children.The blue furry monster's makeover comes as part of a larger plan, introducing additional characters as well. Intended new cast members include talking eggplants and carrots, among others.According to the Sesame Street Muppet Bios, "This season, Cookie Monster learns a lot about health and nutrition. Hoots the Owl explains in a song that 'A Cookie is a Sometimes Food,' and he joins Wyclef Jean in a rap song, 'Healthy Food'."Every other day, health will be the focus of the shows. In addition, every other day there will be segments dealing with health/nutrition. There will be a "Health Moment" at the top of every show featuring special guests, celebrities and Sesame Street characters.The producers of the show insist that they are not asking small children to go on a diet."We would never use the word 'diet' with pre-schoolers," a spokeswoman told The New Zealand Herald.Police were called to the set of the television crime show, CSI: Miami during filming, when a real body was seen washing up on shore.A police officer for the Miami Dade Police Department spotted the body while he was working on the show which was being filmed in Bicentennial Park in Miami, Florida.The cast of the show were attempting to get shots from the air using a helicopter when the officer spotted the body floating a few yards from the set's location."Unfortunately, it's not unusual during certain times of the year that people who have fallen in the bay, either homeless people or people who were asleep or in some cases boaters who had a mishap, fall into the bay and turn up days later," said Delrish Moss, a detective for Miami Police.There is no word on what caused the individual's death, but police say an autopsy will be performed on the body.Earlier in the week, the set of CSI: New York was also turned into a real crime scene when a mummified body was discovered inside a building located in Los Angeles, California where the show was being filmed.The Miami Herald reported an unnamed source as saying that the corpse "was discovered by a building engineer who checked on the tenant because he had not paid rent for the month."CSI: New York just finished filming an episode with a similar plot.A hacker, or group of hackers, operating under the alias of The Dark Overlord uploaded ten episodes of Netflix's web TV series Orange is the New Black on Friday and Saturday on The Pirate Bay after they said the online streaming service failed to meet their demands. Netflix had planned to release the season on June 9.According to The New York Times, the unreleased content from the upcoming fifth season of Orange is the New Black was likely stolen from a postproduction company Larson Studios, based in Los Angeles. Netflix in a statement said, "A production vendor used by several major TV studios had its security compromised and the appropriate law enforcement authorities are involved." In a tweet on Saturday, the hacker said, "Who is next on the list? FOX, IFC, NAT GEO, and ABC. Oh, what fun we're all going to have. We're not playing any games anymore."  The hacker tweeted about uploading the first episode on The Pirate Bay on Saturday saying, "Let's try to be a bit more direct, Netflix". The hacker allegedly demanded an amount of money which they publicly described as "modest", from Netflix for not releasing the episodes prematurely. The New York Times reported that the final three episodes were not pirated since the security breach occurred before the postproduction studio was handed those episodes. In January, the hacker erased the data from the servers of a Muncie-based charity called Little Red Door Cancer Services of East Central Indiana demanding 50 bitcoins to restore their data, which was estimated to be about US$43,000. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is reportedly investigating this cyber crime. Netflix has more than 100 million subscribers, CEO Reed Hastings announced recently. Variety noted that Netfilx's shares experienced a 0.57% loss on the day the first episode was uploaded by the hacker.Sex industry producers think over a new service: on-demand live sex video that can be watched from a hotel room. Will this service be popular? Will large hotel chains go along? These and some other issues were talked about during panel discussion at annual Las Vegas, Nevada trade show for sex entertainment industry producers, marketers and payment processors Internext.There were two opinions on this issue. Gregory Clayman, the owner of the live-action company Video Secrets expressed confidence that in the nearest future sex industry would be selling images of couples making love live over the hotel's entertainment systems. At the same time Anne Taulane, managing editor of Lodging magazine, said she doubted whether major hotel chains would be enthusiastic about this idea as she was convinced that on-demand sex video was more available to the mainstream than viewing live sex performers over hotel's entertainment system. The panelists praised Mastercard and Visa programs which helped to reduce chargebacks or refusals to pay for ordered sex video and debated whether requiring a credit card would prevent minors from viewing sexually explicit materials in the Internet. As the result they came to the conclusion that the government must intervene to cope with these problems.A celebrity sex tape starring former American Idol finalist Jessica Sierra has been leaked to an internet pornography company, who is reportedly planning to release it.Sierra made her fame as a finalist on the 2005 season of American Idol, in which she was the third finalist eliminated. The new tape is reported to show her in a number of nude poses in a hotel room. The footage will be released later this month.Sierra is already suffering from negative press as she appeared in court on Sunday. She had been arrested after being kicked out the Full Moon Saloon in Ybor City early the previous morning, after which she is said to have attacked first a friend, then passing onlookers.  Local officials claim that after being arrested, she offered to perform oral sex with the police officers who arrested her if they would release her.The site TMZ.com say they have received several stills from the video, and have posted one on their website. They also say the tape's release will coincide with the start of the next series of American Idol.A Yorkshire pub affected by flooding in 2007 has been named CAMRA's National Pub of the Year for 2008.The Kelham Island Tavern in Sheffield's Kelham Island Quarter was in a "semi derelict" state when it was purchased in 2001. After it was re-opened in 2002 by licensee Trevor Wraith and manager Lewis Gonda, business quickly picked up and the pub has been awarded Sheffield CAMRA's local Pub of the Year award for the past four years. The pub won the award despite six weeks of closure a year and a half ago when the pub's cellar and floor were affected by the flooding of the River Don and the nearby Kelham goit. The pub also received Yorkshire CAMRA's Pub of the Year award in 2004 and 2007.CAMRA's Pub of the Year award is judged in several stages, with local CAMRA branches evaluating the pubs in their area and passing on recommendations for regional championships. The list of regional champions is then whittled down to four finalists, with CAMRA judges visiting each of these anonymously before making a final decision.The pub regularly serves ten and often up to thirteen Real Ales, and variety and quality of beers served are of particular interest to CAMRA, which was founded in 1971 in order to preserve and promote traditional British beer and pubs, which the group see as threatened.However, other considerations beyond range and variety of beers are also important. Julian Hough, CAMRA's Pubs Director, made particular note of the Tavern's "attention to detail". Mr Wraith also pointed out the pub's "sub-tropical" beer garden, which he calls his "pride and joy"; the pub was awarded Silver Gilts in the Yorkshire In Bloom competition every year since 2003 and has received the Gold Award in the local Sheffield In Bloom competition every year since 2005. The pub also regularly hosts evenings of folk music.Mr Gonda credited the pub's success to the "excellent brewers we deal with, our faithful and supportive pub regulars, and our invaluable staff members." It was this community support which helped the pub recover so quickly after the 2007 flooding, with Mr Wraith describing the day the waters entered the pub. "The funny thing was that it was difficult to get the customers to evacuate. They just wanted to keep on drinking, but we did have to get them out eventually and some of them did get wet." Flood defences were erected after the customers left, but to no avail; Mr Wraith stayed in the pub overnight, despite the flooding and the lack of electricity.The pub will be presented with the award in a ceremony later today at 1pm GMT.Shelby Foote, author of the acclaimed three volume history of the American Civil War, The Civil War: A Narrative, died in Memphis on June 27 at age 88. Foote also wrote historical fiction, including Follow Me Down and Shiloh. He may be best known for his appearance in filmmaker Ken Burns' PBS documentary, The Civil War.The Modern Library ranked Foote's The Civil War: A Narrative as number 15 on its list of 100 best non-fiction books. He was commissioned to write a short history of the Civil War by Random House and spent more than 20 years on the work eventually producing the three volumes.Foote was commissioned as a captain in the United States Army during World War II and lost his commission after visiting a female friend in an army vehicle without permission. He returned to the United States and joined the Marines in whose service he spent the remainder of the war.Following the war he was briefly a reporter for the Associated Press.Pulitzer Prize winning author and friend, Richard Ford said of Foote, "He was a Southerner of great intellect who took up the issue of the Civil War as a writer with huge sanity and sympathy."Given to an "individual in the motion picture industry whose humanitarian efforts have brought credit to the industry", the Jean Hersholt Award is not an annual honor, but rather an occasional prestigious title.This year's winner was Sherry Lansing, the former CEO of Paramount Pictures and the first woman to head a major studio. Her biography in Wikipedia provides a full overview of her industry and humanitarian accomplishments.She delivered the following acceptance speech at the 79th Annual Academy Awards ceremony last night:She joins a list of only been six honorees in the last seventeen years, Audrey Hepburn (1992, posthumously), Elizabeth Taylor (1992), Paul Newman (1993), Quincy Jones (1994), Arthur Hiller (2001), and Roger Mayer (2004).Shoppers World in Brampton, Ontario, Canada asks its visitors to "look up, look way up" this October.The Highway 10 and Steeles Avenue mall is encouraging Bramptonians to paint a ceiling tile for charity this summer, for their upcoming "Looking Up to the Arts" event. The tiles should represent either what Brampton means to you, or the arts in Brampton.Anyone can paint a tile for the event by buying one at the customer service desk for $5. Once tiles are completed and returned for the event, participants receive a gift certificate for $5. The ceiling tiles must be finished and returned by October 7.The tiles will be auctioned off at the end of the event, with money going to the Brampton Arts Council.Local dance, music, theatre and visual arts group will perform and promote at the mall's event, which will be held from October 12 to 22.This isn't Shoppers World's only celebration of the arts. The mall is the permanent home of the Artway Gallery, a community exhibit space on the west side of the mall. Organized by Visual Arts Brampton, the space allows anyone in the community to exhibit publicly.Anita Page, an MGM actress who appeared in films with Lon Chaney, Joan Crawford and Buster Keaton during the transition from silent movies to talkies, has died at the age of 98. Page died in her sleep early Saturday morning at her home in Los Angeles, said actor Randal Malone, her longtime friend.Page was born Anita Pomeres on August 4, 1910 in Flushing, New York. She was the leading lady to Lon Chaney, Buster Keaton, Robert Montgomery, and Clark Gable (among others), and during the early 1930s was one of Hollywood's busiest actresses, as well as being romantically involved with Gable. At the height of her popularity, she was receiving more fan mail than any other female star, with the exception of Greta Garbo, and received multiple marriage proposals from Italian Prime Minister Benito Mussolini in the mail.Page entered film first with A Kiss For Cinderella in 1925. She and her family were very close to Betty Bronson's family, and she was offered the part through Betty. After a few small but well received parts, she was offered a contract with MGM Studios. MGM molded her into one of their biggest female stars of the silent era, pairing her with such popular actors as Ramon Novarro and William Haines. Her performances in Our Dancing Daughters (1928) opposite Joan Crawford (with whom she appeared in three films), and The Broadway Melody (1929) opposite Bessie Love were her greatest successes of the period, and her popularity allowed her to make a smooth transition into talking pictures.Page stopped acting when she fell in love with US Navy aviator Herschel House. The couple married in 1936, six weeks after they met, and she settled down to life as an officer's wife, hosting many parties at their home in San Diego Bay. After House died in 1991, Page returned to acting, starring in suspense thriller Sunset After Dark in 1994. Her last film appearance came in Frankenstein Rising, a horror due for release later this year.The Library of Congress has officially registered the Silesian language in its list of languages. Additionally, the International Linguistic Organization has registered the Silesian language and assigned it the ISO code "szl".For several years the Alliance of Population of Silesian Nation and the Silesian Autonomy Movement have been seeking official recognition of the language. The Silesian language is now the second registered language in Silesia, the first being the Lower Silesian language which is currently under threat of extinction.Singapore police arrested British author and journalist Alan Shadrake one day after the launch of his book about the country's use of the death penalty.Shadrake, 75, was arrested on Sunday morning at a hotel in Singapore and taken into custody by police on charges of criminal defamation, in response to a complaint lodged by the city-state's Media Development Authority (MDA) over the contents of his new book, Once a Jolly Hangman: Singapore Justice in the Dock. Separately, the Attorney-General served Shadrake with an application for an order of committal for contempt of court, accusing him of "cast[ing] doubt on the impartiality, integrity, and independence" of Singapore's courts through his book.Shadrake's latest book discusses alleged "double standards" in the country's application of the death penalty, and contains interviews with local human rights activists, lawyers, and former police officers, including retired Changi Prison executioner Darshan Singh; Singh later claimed that he had been "tricked" into the interview. In earlier media comments, Shadrake stated that he expected "trouble" but no concrete action from authorities over his book, lest they draw even more attention to its claims. Retailers took his book off shelves after inquiries by the MDA; a spokesman for the MDA stated that the book was not banned, but suggested that booksellers "seek legal advice to ensure that the books they sell do not contravene Singapore laws".Shadrake has written for a variety of newspapers, including The Daily Telegraph of London as well as the New Straits Times of neighbouring Malaysia. His previous book, The Yellow Pimpernels, told the tale of various attempts to escape from East Germany over the Berlin Wall. If convicted, he faces a two-year imprisonment and a fine.British singer Amy Winehouse died today in her London home in Camden Square, aged 27. The cause of death is not yet known and is being treated as "unexplained", according to the metropolitan police."On arrival, officers found the body of a 27-year-old female who was pronounced dead at the scene", said a police statement on their website. An ambulance was called to her address where paramedics reported her dead on the scene at around 16:00 local time (15:00 UTC) in London.Winehouse previously had problems with drugs and alcohol and checked herself out of rehab in June.Michael Jackson, a singer and songwriter who was dubbed as the 'King of Pop', has died today at the age of 50. Initial reports had stated that Jackson is in a coma after being rushed to UCLA Medical Center.According to TMZ, rescue crews from the Los Angeles Fire Department responded to his home in Holmby Hills, a suburb of Los Angeles, California where they found Jackson not breathing. According to Fire Captain Steven Ruda, a 911 call was received from Jackson's home at 12:21 p.m. PDT (19:21 UTC), and paramedics responded just before 12:30 p.m. PDT (19:30 UTC). Paramedics unsuccessfully attempted CPR, for a suspected cardiac arrest. According to Lieutenant Fred Corral, the L.A. County Coroner, Jackson was pronounced dead at 2:26 p.m. PDT (21:26 UTC).The Los Angeles Times and Associated Press have said they have confirmed his death with anonymous sources familiar with the situation. According to CNN, the road on which Jackson lived has been blocked off in an attempt to reduce traffic.Jackson began his career with The Jackson 5 which debuted in 1966. Despite numerous hits and best sellers, Jackson is probably most known for his 1982 hit Thriller. It's estimated that the album sold as many at 109 million worldwide.The news failed to reach some quarters quickly.  As of 01:00 UTC the web site of the O2 arena, where Jackson had been scheduled to perform his This Is It concerts in July, was still advertising tickets for sale.  Several companies, including Ticketmaster, Seatwave, and AEG Live, now face having to reimburse all ticket sales. AEG Live had already faced problems obtaining insurance for the concerts.Many celebrities were quick to publish comments and tributes:Britney Spears"He was a wonderful man and will be greatly missed."Ludacris"If it were not for Michael Jackson I would not be where or who I am today. His music and legacy will live on forever. Prayers to the family."John Mayer"I hope he is memoralised as the '83 moonwalking, MTV owning, mesmerizing, unstoppable, invincible Michael Jackson."Miley Cyrus"Michael Jackson was my inspiration. love and blessings."MC Hammer"I will be mourning my friend, brother, mentor and inspiration... He gave me and my family hope. I would never have been without him."Several, including Celine Dion, Randy Jackson, and Donald Tarlton, compared the news of Jackson's death to the news of the deaths of Marilyn Monroe, Elvis Presley, John F. Kennedy, and John Lennon.  Talking to Larry King, Dion said "It feels like when Kennedy died, when Elvis died. It's an amazing loss."A Yorkshire businessman who was working with Jackson on a proposed future project said "I didn't think he would go out in these circumstances. It's not the way I would have expected him to go at all. He's going to become a Marilyn Monroe or an Elvis Presley."Singer Andy Williams has died at 84 years old on Tuesday. He had been fighting bladder cancer for a year. He died in his home in Branson, Missouri.Williams recorded eighteen gold- and three platinum-certified albums. He owned the Moon River Theatre in Branson, Missouri. Williams had a variety show on television called The Andy Williams Show from 1962 to 1967 and 1969 to 1971. Williams also hosted Christmas specials.His songs included Moon River, Can't Take My Eyes off You, and Christmas song It's the Most Wonderful Time of the Year.40th President of the United States Ronald Reagan said Williams' voice was "a national treasure".Williams was born Howard Andrew Williams on December 3, 1927 in Wall Lake, Iowa. His older brothers Robert, Donald, and Richard and he formed the Williams Brothers, a singing quartet. He married Claudine Longet in 1961 and they divorced in 1975. In 1991, he married Debbie Haas.The Los Angeles City Attorney's Office said yesterday that pop music super-star Britney Spears was facing charges for a hit and run offence and driving without a valid drivers' license. Charges were filed following an accident in which police allege Spears smashed her car into another vehicle in a parking area in August of 2007.She could face a maximum of six months in jail and US$2,000 in fines if convicted.A group of paparazzi recorded a video Britney steering her car into another vehicle on August 6 as she tried to pull into a parking spot in a Studio City lot. Kim Robard-Rifkin was the owner of the other car and she filed a police report three days after the accident. The 59-year-old nurse found out that it was Spears who ran into her car after watching a video on a celebrity website. Robard-Rifkin said, "I simply want my car fixed, the same as I would fix somebody's car if I had done that."Spears will be arraigned on October 10.File:Britney-Spears082.jpgPop singer Britney Spears will have to give up custody of her children following a court's ruling today.Spears' ex-husband, Kevin Federline, is to have custody of their children by noon Wednesday.According to Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon's ruling, Federline will retain custody of the children "until further order of the court."The ruling came in part by the testimony of Spears' former body guard, Tony Barretto, who said that Spears had a substance abuse problem.Barretto recalled this memory hours before a concert, "She appeared to be under the influence, she was kind of incoherent, she was looking for her cell phone ... she was biting her nails, her pupils were dilated, didn't conversate well, sweating, acting nervously."Barretto said he knew Spears did drugs at least twice in Hollywood nightclubs.25-year-old Spears and 29-year-old Federline were married in October of 2004 and have two children: Sean Preston, 2 and Jayden James, 1.Starting September 18, 2007, Spears was ordered to submit random drug tests following her engagement in what the court called "habitual, frequent, and continuous use of controlled substances and alcohol."Spears has also been ordered to spend eight hours a week working with a parenting counselor.Also, this ruling came ten days after Spears was charged in a hit and run and for driving without a license.Wikinews has learned that American rock singer Meat Loaf has taken ill during a concert in Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom. He told the audience that it was "the last concert of his life," and left the stage.The incident came 70 minutes into the show on Halloween night. During the opening of Paradise by the Dashboard Light he suggested that the crowd of thousands should enjoy the performance as it was the last of his career. He attempted to sing the first line of the song, but instead said "Ladies and gentlemen, I love you, and I thank you for coming, but I can no longer continue. Good night, God bless you. I love you. Thank you for 30 years. I’m taking my coat off; I bow; and I say goodbye forever." He then left the stage, soon followed by his band.The venue, Metro Radio Arena, have announced that the singer had a sore throat. However, they also say that fans are unlikely to be refunded the cost of their tickets, priced at between £37.50 and £45, because he had performed for over an hour.After a three-year marriage featured in the MTV Series "Newlyweds", Jessica Simpson, 25, and Nick Lachey, 32, have announced their separation.  In a joint statement, the two claimed the split to be "the mutual decision of two people with an enormous amount of respect and admiration for each other".  Jessica Simpson recently played Daisy Duke in a movie remake of The Dukes of Hazzard, while Nick Lachey is a former member of the band 98 Degrees.  Jessica Simpson and Nick Lachey have been the subject of numerous tabloid rumours about their failing marriage, and as recently as October 2005 had denied their marital woes to the press.Sir John Mills, Academy Award winner, BAFTA Fellow, and Disney Legend, has died, aged 97, at his home in Denham, Buckinghamshire after a short illness.A funeral service for family and friends is scheduled to be held at St Mary's Church in Denham on Wednesday April 27.Sir Terry Wogan has announced that he will be no longer presenting the BBC Radio 2 breakfast show, after a 16 year run on the station.File:Terry Wogan.jpgWogan had been presenting the show since April 1972 to December 1984. At the time he had left BBC Radio 2 to pursue a career in television. He came back onto the breakfast show in January 1993 with his show, Wake Up to Wogan. Now Terry has decided to retire from BBC Radio 2 in December.While live on air on Monday morning, Wogan said to his listeners, "I wanted to be first to tell you. It's the least I owe you, for endless years, countless hours of morning companionship, friendship, good humour and laughter. Your loyalty and support has been a beacon of love in my life. There hasn't been a morning, no matter how dark and dreary, that I haven't had a smile on my face and a song in my heart at the prospect of your company, your marvellous mail, your wit and wisdom. This is the hardest thing I have ever done in my broadcasting career, to say goodbye to you in the mornings."Wogan also announced that his career was not finished altogether adding that, "I'll be starting a really exciting new show...in front of you, as my live audience, presenting the very pinnacle of live music, artists, guests, and of course, you, your mail, your warmth, your wit." The new show will take place in the Broadcasting House and will be presented live by Wogan himself. Chris Evans, who will be replacing Terry Wogan as the breakfast show DJ, will start in January 2010. He previously presented the breakfast show for BBC Radio 1 in 1995 but after the British station refused to meet his demands for a four-day week, he left in 1997.Fans of Wogan — or T.O.G.s (Terry's Old Geezers) as they're commonly referred to — expressed their disappointment about his departure.  One fan wrote: "I'd rather have silence than have to endure the torture of being shouted at over breakfast.  It will be disaster for the listeners and the station."Sir Terry Wogan has presented his final BBC Radio 2 weekday breakfast show after hosting Wake Up To Wogan on the station for sixteen years.  Wogan originally presented The Terry Wogan Show on the radio station between 1972 and 1984, in which his supporters were "Twits" — the Terry Wogan is Tops Society.  Since Wake Up To Wogan commenced in 1993, the listeners were referred to as TOGs — Terry's Old Geezers/Gals.  Now, after presenting the weekday breakfast show regularly for 16 years, Terry Wogan has left.He first announced his departure from the show in September of this year. After playing "That'll Do" by the Black Dyke Mills Band, Wogan made his final speech at 0926 GMT. He proclaimed these words: "This is it, then. This is the day I have been dreading — the inevitable morning when you and I come to the parting of the ways, the last Wake Up To Wogan."It wasn't always thus.  For the first 12 years it was the plain old Terry Wogan Show and you were all Twits, the Terry Wogan is Tops Society.  When I returned to the bosom of our family, it became Wake Up To Wogan and you all became TOGs, Terry's Old Geezers and Gals.  It's always been a source of enormous pride to me that you have come together in my name, that you are proud to call yourself my listeners, that you think of me as a friend, someone that you are close enough to laugh with, to poke fun at and occasionally, when the world seemed just a little too cruel, to shed a tear with.  And the years together with you have not only been a pleasure but a privilege.  You have allowed me to share your lives with you.  When you tell me how important I have been in your lives it's very moving.  You have been every bit as important in mine.  We have been though at least a couple of generations together, for many of you — your children, like mine, now have children of their own.  And your support for Children In Need has been consistent and magnificent.  You've baked the bakes, you've held the quizzes, you've sold the calendars, you've packed the CDs and the DVDs.  You've answered the phones — always there when we've called on you, unheralded and unsung.  And if anybody embodies the generous, warm spirit of this country it's you, my listeners.  "I am not going to pretend that this is not a sad day — you can probably hear it in my voice.  I am going to miss the laughter and the fun of our mornings together.  I know you are going to welcome Chris Evans with the same generosity of spirit that you have always shown me.  So, I am going to miss you, until we are together again in February, have a happy Christmas.  Thank you, thank you for being my friend."After this speech, he played "The Party's Over" by the late Anthony Newley. Wogan will be replaced by Chris Evans, who currently hosts Chris Evans Drivetime every weekday evening, in January 2010.Sirius CEO Mel Karmazin appeared before a newly formed Antitrust Task Force, a sub-committee of the House Judiciary Committee, on Wednesday last week in Washington, D.C. to defend the proposed U.S. merger between XM and Sirius satellite radio services. The hearing, carried live on C-SPAN, was attended by representatives from various competing broadcast companies. The representatives challenged the merger deal, and some speakers were openly hostile to Karmazin and to satellite radio in general, while other speakers were more civil.Several times during the debate, the discussion centered on the failed merger deal between the two satellite television networks DirecTV and Echostar. The comparison between this proposed radio merger and the failed television merger was settled to some extent with an understanding that nearly all television viewers now use either cable or satellite to view available programming. Televised programming content is now delivered mainly in the form of a subscription, rather than airwave transmissions.Unlike television programming, most radio listeners use over the air receivers to listen to free programming content supported advertisers."We come to this hearing with an open mind, but we recognize that the companies have the obligation to convince the Congress, the regulators, and most importantly, the American People that this combination will improve the competitive playing field and benefit consumers," said John Conyers, the sub-committee chairman. To determine the legality of this merger, Congress first needs to decide whether a combined XM and Sirius would be a monopoly, as the only satellite radio provider in the United States, or whether the new company will actually be in competition with other forms of radio-like entertainment, according to Conyers. The hearing focused on alternatives such as Internet radio, terrestrial radio, portable audio devices, and emerging services, such as cell phone services and WiMax.Roseanne Barr, best known for her role on the television sitcom Roseanne, officially announced Thursday on the The Tonight Show with Jay Leno that she will run for President of the United States in 2012.Barr, 58, starred as the blue collar, wise-cracking mother Roseanne Conner on Roseanne from 1988 to 1997. She made national headlines in 1990 for a shrill performance of the national anthem at a San Diego Padres baseball game that then-President George H.W. Bush called a disgrace. After the conclusion of Roseanne, she hosted a short-lived talk show from 1998 to 2000, before returning to her roots as a stand-up comedienne in the HBO special Roseanne Barr: Blonde N Bitchin'. Last month, Barr premiered in a new reality show on Lifetime called Roseanne's Nuts, which follows her life as a macadamia nut farmer in Hawaii. Two weeks ago, the show was watched by 1.6 million viewers, though last week only 785,000 tuned in. In an interview with The Star-Telegram, she admitted that the show serves as a launching pad for her presidential ambitions, arguing "I have to do a reality show in order to run for president of these United States", in allusion to former Alaska governor Sarah Palin's reality series Sarah Palin's Alaska.During her appearance on the Tonight Show, Barr insisted that she was serious and commented that Palin's potential candidacy is "kinda what got me to thinking that I too should run for president, if she can". Barr revealed that she had created her own political party, referred to as the "Green Tea Party", which combines elements of the Green and Tea Party movements. She proclaimed that the taxpayers would be her running mate and that her first order of business would be the legalization of marijuana.  If not invited to the presidential debates, Barr joked that she would "photoshop" herself in.Six people have died after a shooting incident Thursday in a Deeper Life church located in Gombe, in the north east of Nigeria. Gombe state police spokesman Ahmed Muhammad reported that eight other individuals had also been wounded during the shootings.The wife of the pastor of the church was amongst those killed in the attack, which happened as a prayer service was in progress. Theresa Munyok, self-identified as daughter and brother of two of those shot dead, spoke of the events which occurred. "The only thing I heard was my mommy shouting," Munyok explained. "She told me that it was gunshots and that my dad is not even breathing. She called and called and he did not wake up," she said.No groups were reported to have claimed responsibility for the incident. It is reportedly suspected that Boko Haram, a Muslim sect, carried out the attack. On Sunday, an individual presumed to be a representative of Boko Haram gave a warning to the Christian citizens of the north of Nigeria, which is mainly Muslim, ordering them to depart from the region within three days. Boko Haram translates from Hausa to English as 'Western education is sacrilege'. The group was reportedly responsible in 2011 for over five hundred killings. The group accepted responsibility for the attack of a Catholic church near the Nigerian capital Abuja on Christmas Day, in which at least 37 people died, as well as a suicide bombing at a United Nations building in the same city, where 25 people were killed as a result.Goodluck Jonathan, the president of Nigeria, placed various areas of the country in a state of emergency on December 31, 2011, including areas in Yobe, Plateau, Borno and Niger state. Gombe was not included amongst these states. Authorities in these areas can now arrest individuals without requiring evidence to do so. Similarly, searches can be made by authorities without requiring warrants to do so.Subscription channel Sky has purchased the rights to broadcast US television programme Glee in the United Kingdom. New episodes of the show are anticipated to commence airing on BSkyB television station Sky1 during the autumn of this year.Channel 4, who have been broadcasting the programme from its first episode until the end of the second season, rejected the opportunity to involve themselves in broadcasting rights negotiations in May of this year. According to reports, Sky had placed an offer of £12 million for season three episodes, in excess of twice the total Channel 4 had provided for seasons one and two.Describing the programme as "part of a long-term commitment to investing in programming – both originated and acquired – that will continue to deliver the best choice, quality and value to our customers," Stuart Murphy, Sky's programme director, described Glee as "the perfect fit for Sky1 and we're thrilled to be able to build on the success it has already achieved." In the run-up to the premiere of the third season, a show entitled The Glee Project will be aired on Sky1. This programme consists of members of the Glee production staff will attempt to locate a performer they deem suitable for appearing in various season three episodes.Channel 4 first broadcast Glee in the UK on January 12, 2010. According to NME, audience viewing figures of 1.14 million were recorded at this stage. During the second season, first airing on January 10, 2011, ratings of 1.61 million were noted. At its peak, Glee achieved viewing figures of 2.6 million amongst series two, according to BBC News Online, placing Glee amongst the most watched shows aired on digital channel E4. The final episode of the second season was broadcast on E4 Monday, making this the final episode provided as 'free-to-air', due to Sky being a subscription service.Ian Brennan, a writer for Glee, has informed E! of modifications to the line-up of actors appearing in the programme, noting that "we would be missing a beat if we didn't acknowledge the fact that a huge part of high school is graduating from high school". Although not all of the entire cast list will be replaced, "some of the cast will graduate", Brennan stated.Paul Gray, American musician and bassist of the heavy metal band Slipknot, has been found dead in his hotel room in Iowa.  His body was found at around 10:50 Monday morning by a hotel employee.  Police investigating the death said that no foul play was suspected. Chris Diebel, the spokesman for the hotel where Gray was found, released a statement. He said “Gray checked into the extended-stay hotel on Saturday and was scheduled to check out today”. He added that Gray had “stayed at the hotel before and was remembered as being a quiet and respectful guest.”       Gray started with Slipknot when it formed in 1995. They released, in 1996, their first album, which sold over a million copies worldwide. The group has received seven Grammy award nominations and won one in 2006 for “Best Metal Performance” with "Before I Forget". Slipknot became very popular and famous for its artistic live performances and the iconic masks that all band members wore in public. Gray was known by his fans by either his band number #2 or his nickname “The Pig”. Along with drummers Joey Jordison and Shawn Crahan, Gray was one of only three original members of Slipknot that still remained in the band. Fellow musicians paid tribute to Gray, with many of them releasing statements after his death. J.R. Siems, from the band Sound Proof Coalition, said: "everybody seemed to think he was in good health again, so it came as a big shock that this had to happen. It's pretty surreal. He had the biggest heart of anyone I knew and would give anyone the shirt off his back." An autopsy, including toxicology reports, is due later today.Martin Garbus, Esq. filed a shareholder derivative suit Monday against Marvel Entertainment and its Chief Executive Officer Isaac Perlmutter, as well as Stan Lee, the creator of Marvel superhero characters, and Lee's wife and former Marvel Studios head, Avi Arad. The suit is for more than US$750 million (£528M) — about half of the estimated proceeds from Marvel's movies. Plaintiff Stan Lee Media (SLM) has four shareholders who live in Florida, California and Canada, and include Jose Abadin and Nelson Thall. The company is suing for recovery of civil damages representing one-half of film and book earnings from such blockbuster films as Spider-Man, Iron Man, X-Men, Hulk, and Fantastic Four franchises. Defendants are accused of copyright violations over both the Marvel superhero characters and intellectual properties created by Stan Lee. Spider-Man's three cinematic outings, starring Tobey Maguire, earned more than $1bn (£702m). "Most of Marvel's financial success, including from the films, comes out of assets created by Stan Lee that are the subject of this suit," the complaint states.Lee, 86, has denied the allegations and has previously filed his own $50 million counter lawsuit against SLM, claiming the company has destroyed his name and reputation and prevented his effort to develop such properties as "The Accuser" and "The Drifter" and others via his first-look deals with Disney and Virgin Comics. Lee also co-created Daredevil, Doctor Strange and Thor.Former dot-com company STM further alleges that it has agreed to pay Lee a $250,000 annual salary plus $100 million in company stock in exchange for the rights to the superhero characters. "That money should have gone to the corporation," said Garbus. Lee's counsel, Mark Williams, replied: "We look forward to a positive resolution for Stan Lee and his family." Marvel has said the court pleadings, which were filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, are filled with "ridiculous claims". SLM ran out of operating capital during the dot-com meltdown in December 2000, closing operations entirely by December 19 of that year. The company was placed into Chapter 11 Reorganization in Bankruptcy by Stan Lee in 2001. During the insolvency proceedings, Lee assigned the major character franchises he had created to his new public company, POW! Entertainment, without the bankruptcy court's approval. Two multi-billion dollar lawsuits for damages were filed against Lee, his new company, his new partner Arthur Lieberman and Marvel Entertainment for cybersquatting and failure to disclose the existence and value of the Rights Assignment Lee made to the company when he founded it.The company remained under bankruptcy protection until the US Trustee for the Central District of California moved to dismiss the bankruptcy proceedings for failure of the company as debtor in possession to comply with basic requirements of filing monthly reports and paying quarterly fees to the Trustee. SLM was taken back by the shareholders after its dismissal from bankruptcy and hired a legal and accounting forensic consultant to review all transactions that occurred during bankruptcy.By November 2006, all of the officers and directors of the company had resigned or abandoned their positions and the company's lawyers for the debtors in possession attempted to obtain court authorization to destroy or dispose of the company's books and records. This initiated a long-running legal battle between shareholders and the company's founder, Lee.The plaintiffs in this most recent suit contend that Lee, Perlmutter, Arthur Lieberman and Avi Arad conspired in bad faith to conceal and misappropriate financial interests in Lee's creations assigned to Stan Lee Media in 1998. SLM's meltdown involved its former President Peter F. Paul fleeing to Brazil, contributions made to Bill and Hillary Clinton, Paul's extradition and more. In 2007, SLM filed a $5 billion lawsuit in which it claimed co-ownership of all of Stan Lee's creations for Marvel.On the same day he released his debut solo album, former Smashing Pumpkins frontman Billy Corgan announced, "I want my band back, and my songs, and my dreams." Those words appeared in a full-page ad[1] that ran in Tuesday's edition of the Chicago Tribune under the title, A Message to Chicago From Billy Corgan. The alternative-rock icon also wrote, "For a year now I have walked around with a secret, a secret I chose to keep. But now I want you to be among the first to know that I have made plans to renew and revive The Smashing Pumpkins."The group, which included guitarist James Iha, drummer Jimmy Chamberlin, and bassists D'Arcy Wretzky and Melissa Auf der Maur, last played together in 2000.  On February 17, 2004, Corgan posted a bitter message on his personal blog calling Wretzky a "mean spirited drug addict" and blaming Iha for the breakup.It was not clear if Corgan's former band members knew of his plans, or who would be involved with the new group.  No other details on the plans were forthcoming from the singer, who lives in the Chicago area.Snow has fallen in Baghdad, Iraq for the first time in approximately 100 years. Although Baghdad sometimes sees hail and sleet, snow has never been seen in living memory.Snow was also recorded in the western and central parts of the country, where it is also very unusual, and in the Kurdish north, which is mountainous and commonly sees snowfall.A statement by the meteorology department read "Snow has fallen in Baghdad for the first time in about a century as a result of two air flows meeting. The first one was cold and dry and the second one was warm and humid. They met above Iraq."Dawood Shakir, director of the meteorology department, told AFP his take on the causation of the snow: "It's very rare. Baghdad has never seen snow falling in living memory. These snowfalls are linked to the climate change that is happening everywhere. We are finding some places in the world which are warm and are supposed to be cold."Temperatures in some parts of the country fell below freezing, compared to winters that are normally mild in a climate that sees summer temperatures of 120 degrees Fahrenheit. Snow fell in the capital city from prior to dawn until just after 9 a.m. local time. The flakes failed to provide a covering of snow, instead melting quickly. However, many local people still had positive things to say about the once in a lifetime event.Mohammed Abdul-Hussein, a 63-year-old in retirement, commented "For the first time in my life I saw a snow-rain like this falling in Baghdad. When I was young, I heard from my father that such rain had fallen in the early '40s on the outskirts of northern Baghdad but snow falling in Baghdad in such a magnificent scene was beyond my imagination."Fawzi Karim, who runs a small restaurant in Hawr Rajab, six miles from Baghdad said "I asked my mother, who is 80, whether she'd ever seen snow in Iraq before, and her answer was no... This is so unusual, and I don't know whether or not it's a lesson from God," while college student Talib Haider said "a friend of mine called me at 8 a.m. to wake me up and tell me that the sky is raining snow. I rushed quickly to the balcony to see a very beautiful scene. I tried to film it with my cell phone camera. This scene has really brought me joy. I called my other friends and the morning turned out to be a very happy one in my life."Resident Aysar Khaled told Reuters "I woke up and I saw snow falling, so I woke up all the family and told them to come and see the snowfall. Everyone in Baghdad is delighted because this is a new thing, this is the first time that it snows in Baghdad... The view is very beautiful."Some viewed it as a sign of impending peace, or at least of an improving situation in the war-torn country. Hassan Zahar, a 60-year-old resident, said "It is the first time we've seen snow in Baghdad. We've seen sleet before, but never snow. I looked at the faces of all the people, they were astonished... A few minutes ago, I was covered with snowflakes. In my hair, on my shoulders. I invite all the people to enjoy peace, because the snow means peace."The snow was "a new sign of the new Iraq," according to traffic policeman Murtadha Fadhil, who spoke to Reuters whilst sheltering under a balcony. "It's a sign of hope. We hope Iraqis will purify their hearts and politicians will work for the prosperity of all Iraqis."There are no reports of any bloodshed during the time the snow was falling.Bell was born on March 6, 1927 in Chicago, Illinois. He first helped fellow Chicago resident Irna Phillips, the "Queen of the Soap Opera," write the soap opera As the World Turns in the late 1950s. The two forged a partnership which lasted for much of the following decade. Bell helped create Another World with Phillips, and then wrote Phillips' creation Days of Our Lives from 1966 to 1975.The ratings for Days of Our Lives rose to near the top of the daytime rankings in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Bell then became a hot commodity, and scripted a soap pilot of his own. With the help of his wife, Chicago talk show host Lee Phillip Bell, he pitched The Young and the Restless to CBS executives, which agreed to air the show starting in 1973. Like Days of Our Lives, The Young and the Restless focused primarily on young, beautiful characters, while still maintaining balance throughout the rest of the cast. Bell was the head writer of the series for a record amount of time, from 1973 until his retirement in 1998; no one person wrote a daily television series for such an uninterrupted period of time. In 1988, The Young and the Restless became the highest-rated soap opera on US television, an honor the show continues to hold today.The Bell husband-and-wife team also created The Bold and the Beautiful, a glamorous serial set around the fashion industry in Beverly Hills, in 1987. Bell won three Emmys for his writing on The Young and the Restless, and one for Days of Our Lives. Bell won five more Emmys for producing the latter serial.At the time of his death, Bell was battling Alzheimer's disease. He had three children, William Jr., Bradley, and Lauralee; all three of his children had various jobs on his soaps. William Jr. is president of Bell-Phillip Television Productions, Inc., Bradley is the executive producer and head writer of The Bold and the Beautiful, and Lauralee plays Christine Williams on The Young and the Restless.Louise Straw, a solicitor representing UK television and radio presenter Stuart Hall, has said Hall is innocent of charges of indecent assault. In relation to complaints about alleged events between 1974 and 1984 involving three females between eight and seventeen years of age, Hall was charged with three counts of indecent assault after being arrested Wednesday.Hall, who has been released on bail, is expected to appear at Preston Magistrates' Court on January 7.Saying Hall was not able to provide any additional comment at present, Straw criticised the apparent "systematic, measured leaks to the media, which have given a misleading impression of what this case is about." She stressed it was "a matter of concern" given the recent release of the Leveson Report. Straw also said because police arrested Hall at his residence in the town of Wilmslow in Cheshire, he "was not afforded the opportunity to attend voluntarily at the police station. In due course, the decision that he should be arrested will be the subject of some scrutiny".John Dilworth of the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said there was "sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction and ... it is in the public interest to prosecute this case." Stating Hall was innocent, Straw explained: "There will be a trial and his defence will then be in the public domain."Hall — who has recently been featuring as an association football commentator on BBC Radio 5 Live — will not be working at the BBC as police inquiries continue because of "the very serious nature of these charges", a spokesperson for the corporation has said.Hall, who notably presented UK game show It's a Knockout, was given an OBE at the New Year Honours for services to charity and broadcasting. His broadcasting career has lasted some fifty years.The majority of radio stations in Somalia have stopped playing music after orders from Islamist militants, who claim that the songs are un-Islamic. The stations reported that they complied with the ban over fears for their life. Before the forbiddance, which includes playing all music and jingles, thirteen of the fifteen stations played music. A radio station manager said "We are using other sounds such as gunfire, the noise of the vehicles and birds to link up our programmes." Other controllers spoke about the fear of losing listeners and advertisers due to the bans.A BBC reporter compared the militants ban to demands from the Taliban in Afghanistan. The Somali militants issued the order 10 days ago and all but two stations have stopped playing music. The only stations not in compliance with the ban are a government controlled station and a UN-funded station based in Kenya. Pop music is popular in Somalia and the ban has been met with heavy criticism. Militants in certain parts of the country have previously banned the watching of films and football.  Since 1991, Somalia has had no functioning government, with militants controlling large parts of the country. The government, which is backed by UN funds and troops from the African Union, only control a small part of the capital city, Mogadishu.American model and actress Anna Nicole Smith's son Daniel Smith, 20, died in the Bahamas, while visiting his mother, who had just given birth to a girl.Authorities state that one other person was in the room at the time, and the person was not a hospital staffer. The person's identity has not been released.The cause of death is currently unknown, however the results of the autopsy and toxicology reports will be released at the inquest, which has been scheduled for the week of October 23. Authorities also say that there is no sign of physical injury"He was found in a condition of non-responsiveness. I am not certain who made the alarm, and doctors were called in, but he was pronounced dead," said Assistant Commissioner of the Royal Bahamas Police Force, Reginald Ferguson.      If jurors decide a crime has taken place, it will be sent to the Attorney General's office.Ms. Smith said that she was devastated over the loss of her son.The son of poets Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes has committed suicide.Nicholas Hughes hanged himself at his home in Fairbanks, Alaska on March 16, after a long battle with depression. Hughes was 47 at the time of his death.Media outlets described the death as another in a long line of tragedy for the family.Hughes was only one year old when his mother famously gassed herself to death in 1963, soon after her relationship with Ted Hughes ended. In 1969, Ted Hughes' mistress killed herself and their daughter in a copycat suicide.Nicholas Hughes, who was not married and had no children, was an evolutionary ecologist who studied stream fish. He had been a professor of fisheries and ocean sciences at the University of Alaska Fairbanks until recently, when he he left the post to set up a pottery at home.“His lifelong fascination with fish and fishing was a strong and shared bond with our father (many of whose poems were about the natural world)," his sister, Frieda Hughes, said in a statement given to the press."He was a loving brother, a loyal friend to those who knew him and, despite the vagaries that life threw at him, he maintained an almost childlike innocence and enthusiasm for the next project or plan," she said.Near the end of her life, Sylvia Plath wrote poems about Nicholas Hughes, including one entitled "Nick and the Candlestick" from her collection, Ariel, which reads: “You are the one/ Solid the spaces lean on, envious./ You are the baby in the barn.”One of last night's surprise wins at the 80th Academy Awards was Glen Hansard and Markéta Irglová winning the Best Original Song Oscar.The song "Falling Slowly" is from the 2006 film Once, which also co-stars Hansard and Irglová.The favorite in the category was Enchanted, a Disney film which received nominations for "Happy Working Song", "That's How You Know", and "So Close". Also nominated was "Raise It Up" from August Rush.The soundtrack received a Grammy nomination in 2008.Irglová was cut off by music, when stepping up to the microphone to speak. She was given a second chance to speak after the next commercial break, and was introduced onto the stage by host Jon Stewart.For some time, the song's eligibility for an Oscar was in dispute, as it had appeared on a 2006 CD issued by Hansard's band, The Frames, and it had been performed by the couple in various European venues. The Academy ruled that because the song had been composed for the movie, and the prior public exposure during the long period that the movie took to produce had been minimal, it remained eligible.Sony Computer Entertainment, a world-class gaming company, yesterday announced not only upcoming models from the PS2 and PSP lines, but also a special project named "Taiwan Digital Content Talent R&D Project," strongly supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA). The September launch of this project is expected to bring profits and opportunities to Taiwan's digital content industry, especially in gaming.According to the SCE Taiwan Limited, this project will be mainly supervised by MOEA. SCE will cooperate with academic units in Taiwan. Students and the public interested on the R&D of digital content are welcomed to join trainings from this project. Some famous Japanese gaming developers will give lectures and choose some excellent games at this project to market to the world including Japan.SCE Taiwan, as well as the lecturers, will also provide some debug machines, on which trainees can experiment during the lectures. It is expected that some selected games will be preliminary announced at PlayStation Home and PlayStation Store in Japan.California, Italy and New York are the first to bring litigation against Sony BMG's digital rights management (DRM) software found in at least 20 music discs released by Sony.  The software automatically installs after the user agrees to a end user license agreement (EULA) before the music disc can be played, and includes a rootkit that can create vulnerabilities in the user's Windows computer.  One trojan horse exploiting the hole has already been discovered online.The California lawsuit, filed on November 1, claims that the software violates the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, the Consumer Protection Against Computer Spyware Act, and the California Unfair Competition Law. The upcoming lawsuit in New York would seek restitution for consumers nationwide.  Mathew Gilliat-Smith, the CEO of First 4 Internet, the company that created the software, claims it is "benign content."  Meanwhile, in an NPR interview, a Sony BMG Music Entertainment Vice President said, "Most people, I think, don't even know what a rootkit is, so why should they care about it?"Sony and First 4 Internet have released "patches" and uninstall kits, after programmer Mark Russinovich discovered the hidden files from the rootkit.  However, these uninstall kits are only installable online through an ActiveX application, a technology many security experts advise users to deactivate due to its high execution privileges on host computers.In addition to questions of legality, the DRM software has come under fire from media rights activists and even artists who unwittingly found their albums more stringently protected than they approved of.  Furthermore, Sony's DRM software "phones home" each time one of their CDs is played.  The license agreement does not reveal this behavior, nor does it acknowledge the existence of the rootkit itself.Thomas Hesse of Sony BMG recently told the San Francisco Chronicle that 60 percent of Sony BMG CDs released in the United States currently have copy protection measures, and that they aim to hit 100 percent by early 2006.The fifth annual Sony Fair, established and organized by Sony Taiwan Limited in Taipei, Taiwan since 2004, started at the North Square of Taipei 101 near the TWTC Hall 3 from April 3 to 13. With more opportunities and chances of Blu-ray and High-definition markets, the organizer named its theme slogan with "High-definition Entertainment Park".Not only executives supported this show, and high-definition AV-media showcases, but Sony BMG Taiwan will also invite several vocalists to hold some mini concerts in the Sony Fair 2008 to bring up the visitors during holiday nights.Sony BMG has announced it will suspend production of CDs with their controversial "anti-piracy" software.  The move follows litigation being brought against the company for the software which allegedly opens up Microsoft Windows to malicious attacks.In an ironic turn of events, it now appears that Sony's software violates the copyright of the popular LAME mp3 player, which is distributed under a public license.  In the past, German courts have forced companies to release their source code to the public when it was based upon software distributed under such a license.On Monday, President and CEO of Sony, Ken Kutaragi unveiled the next generation of the PlayStation game console. The PlayStation 3 console is planned to:Be based on IBM's Cell processor, containing nine separate processing cores, eight of which are to run at 3.2 GHz.Contain six USB 2.0 ports and be compatible with a maximum of seven controllers through Bluetooth technology.Use Blu-ray technology, with which a single disc can hold as much as 50 gigabytes.Be able to play MP3s and display digital photographs.Last week, there was a leak of details regarding Microsoft's next console, the Xbox 360.  The Xbox 360 contains the same processor as the PlayStation 3, with three cores, also running at 3.2 GHz.Nintendo, another competitor, is expected to show off the Nintendo Revolution as part of the Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) next week. The PlayStation 3 is planned to be available in white, black, or silver color, in the spring of 2006.Sony launched its eagerly anticipated PlayStation Portable (PSP) in the North American market today. The PlayStation costs $250 and plays MP3 files, movies and of course games.Launched previously in Japan last year with much fanfare, the PSP quickly achieved sales of more than 800,000 units. The device is Sony's first major attempt at challenging Nintendo's long held grip on the market for handheld games. Nintendo currently holds a 90 percent of the market share for handhelds in North America. With the recent introduction of Nintendo DS, the fight for control of this market is expected to become even more intense.Glamour model Sophie Reade has won the tenth series of the British version of reality TV show Big Brother.Sophie is a 20-year-old from Nantwich, Cheshire, England who has posed nude for Playboy UK and changed her name to "Dogface" for the purposes of getting onto the show. She won the prize fund of £71,320 (US$118,846) on the final on Friday night, beating runner-up contestant Siavash Sabbaghpour, with final votes of 74.4% to Siavash's 26%. Sophie was also the bookmasters' favourite to win.She said: "I never thought I could win...I could hardly believe it."  The British public earlier phoned in and voted David Ramsden third, Charlie Drummond fourth, and Rodrigo Lopes fifth.Channel 4, the channel which has been showing Big Brother in the United Kingdom for the last ten years, recently announced that next year's series would be the last due to a decline of six million viewers since the 2002 series, which got a maximum of eight million viewers.  Kevin Lygo, Channel 4's Director of Television, said that Big Brother "had reached a natural end point on Channel 4 and it's time to move on".Production company Endemol have said that they were enormously proud of their partnership with the British television channel and stated: "We have every intention of celebrating the show's historic run on Channel 4 with great final series of both Celebrity Big Brother and the summer series in 2010.  As for 2011, stay tuned.  Big Brother will get back to you…"Soprano Beverly Sills, who brought opera to United States popular culture through frequent television appearances, died last night at her home in New York. She was 78.Born Belle Miriam Silverman on May 25, 1929 in Brooklyn, she was nicknamed "Bubbles", and started singing at age three, winning talent contests and singing on the radio.She made her professional stage debut in 1945, with a touring Gilbert and Sullivan show, and in 1947, started singing opera as Frasquite in Carmen with the Philadelphia City Opera. She sang with the San Francisco Opera and the New York City Opera.She married in 1956 to journalist and Cleveland Plain Dealer publishing heir Peter Greenough, and had two children with him. One was deaf and the other mentally retarded, so Sills curtailed her performances to care for them.She returned to opera in 1962, with the Opera Company of Boston, and then reached her peak singing years in the mid- and late-1960s, singing with the New York City Opera.She made her debut with the Metropolitan Opera in April 1975, receiving an 18-minute ovation for her performance in The Siege of Corinth.At the height of her popularity in the 1970s, she was a regular guest on television variety shows with Danny Kaye, Carol Burnett and The Muppet Show. She was even a guest host on Johnny Carson's The Tonight Show. For two years, she had her own weekly talk show. Sills graced magazine covers, such as Time and Newsweek, as an example of an American who conquered the European-dominated world of classical music.After retiring from performing in 1980, Sills became the general manager of the New York City Opera. She became the chairman of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in 1994, and 2002 was appointed head of the Metropolitan Opera.Sills had surgery for cancer in 1974, but it had been revealed last month that she was ill with an aggressive form of lung cancer, though she never smoked. She died about 9 p.m. ET yesterday at her home in Manhattan with her family and doctor at her side.Musician Luther Vandross died at 1:47 pm Eastern time Friday, at a hospital in Edison, New Jersey, likely from complications related to a 2003 stroke.He was the winner of numerous Grammy Awards.Grammy Award and Academy Award winning musician and vocalist Isaac Hayes was found dead in his home in Memphis, Tennessee in the United States. According to initial police reports, his wife found him collapsed near a treadmill exercise machine in their home after she returned from running errands. The Shelby County  Sheriffs Department responded to his wife's phone call and took Mr. Hayes to Baptist East Hospital in Memphis, where he was pronounced dead at 2:08 AM EST. Hayes was 65. Born Isaac Lee Hayes, Jr. in 1942, he became a noted soul and funk music artist, whose work also included singer-songwriter, musician, record producer, arranger, composer, and actor. His body of work includes soundtracks to the Blaxploitation films Shaft (in which he appeared in a cameo role), Three Tough Guys, and Truck Turner (acting in a featured role both films).  He also provided the voice of the character Chef on the animated TV series South Park, but left after the episode "Trapped In the Closet", which was a satire on the controversial Church of Scientology, of which Hayes was a member.The South African national rugby team has defeated the Welsh equivalent 43-17 in a home rugby test match at Bloemfontein.South Africa scored four tries to defeat current Six Nations champion Wales. Conrad Jantjes, Jean de Villers, Pierre Spies and Percy Montgomery all scored tries, Montgomery having been substituted on in the second half. Welsh tries were scored by Jamie Roberts and Shane Wiliams and all remaining points came from conversions and penalties.Stephen Jones converted a try for Wales, while Butch James converted all of South Africa's. After CJ van der Linde and Richard Hibbard got into a fight, both men were sent off. It was the first match in charge for new South Africa coach Peter de Villiers.Wales captain Ryan Jones later explained his team's defeat. "We made too many mistakes. South Africa capitalized whenever we lost possession, but we have no excuses," he said.South Korea's popular actress, Ok So-ri (hangul= 옥소리; 'Ok Bo-gyeong' - 옥보경), age 40, was convicted Wednesday of adultery, for an affair she admitted having with a well-known 38-year-old opera singer. She blamed it on a loveless 11-year marriage. Goyang, Gyeonggi Province Regional court Judge Cho Min-seok ruled that, "The accused deserves to be blamed. But we took into account her husband's indifference to his wife and she has already gone through immense mental agony since the trial started." Her husband, Park Chul (박철), a radio talk show personality, sought the maximum sentence of two years imprisonment, while the prosecutors were seeking 18 months. She was sentenced to eight months in prison, but avoided jail because the sentence was suspended for two years. The Court imposed upon her lover a six-month suspended term. In September 2008, a lower court had declared both partners jointly responsible for their divorce, and awarded custody of their nine-year-old daughter to Mr Park. Ok had been trying to overturn a 1953 law that criminalizes extramarital affairs and can send a person to jail for up to two years for adultery. Her lawyers alleged in a court petition: "The adultery law ... has degenerated into a means of revenge by the spouse, rather than a means of saving a marriage." For this purpose she brought a case before the Constitutional Court of Korea, which ruled against the actress and in handing the decision said that society would be harmed if it overturned the law and that the "two-year jail term is not excessive when comparing it to responsibility." The Constitutional Court of Korea (헌법재판소 , Heonbeop Jaepanso) is an independent and specialized court, whose primarily role is the reviewing constitutionality under the Constitution of the Republic of Korea. The Korean Times says that "in the past three years about 1,200 people have been indicted annually for adultery, but very few have been jailed." Minwoo women's rights group leader, Lee Hye-kyung opined that "the law is problematic in that it focuses only on the technical aspects of sexual intercourse and allows the government to intrude on the most private part of adult sexual life."Episodes of the Colorado-based cartoon comedy television series South Park have been made available for free via streaming video on the website SouthParkStudios.com. Full-length episodes from the past 12 seasons of South Park can be seen on the site, as well as behind-the-scenes clips and information on upcoming episodes. After new episodes of the program air on Comedy Central they will be added to the site for one week, but will then be unavailable for the next 30 days before being added to the site's archives, due to contractual obligations. SouthParkStudios.com was relaunched with free streaming episodes on March 19, and as of Comedy Central's announcement Tuesday the site had three million hits, two million video plays and one million full-episode streams. 168 of the series' 169 episodes are currently available on the site.  The site is currently in a beta format and is ad supported, but visitors can watch an unlimited number of episodes. Streaming episodes are uncensored, and each episode will have between three and four advertisements. The website also has news, games, blogs and a feature where users can create South Park avatar characters in their likeness. Fans can also choose from 3,000 episode clips from the show to embed on their blogs or websites. The website was created by WPP agency Schematic, with Toyota and Virgin as launch sponsors. SouthParkStudios.com launched this past summer with games and other media content, in a deal between South Park creators Matt Stone and Trey Parker where their contract with Comedy Central was extended for three years and the cable television channel agreed to split online ad revenue 50-50. Matt Stone commented on the three-year contract to produce more episodes of the series: "Three more years of South Park will give us the opportunity to offend that many more people ... And since Trey and I are in charge of the digital side of South Park, we can offend people on their cellphones, game consoles, and computers too. It's all very exciting for us."Parker and Stone released a statement about the website: "We got really sick of having to download our own show illegally all the time, so we gave ourselves a legal alternative." Parker and Stone don't think that the move will affect DVD sales of past seasons, because fans will still want to own episodes in a "hard copy" format.The website is managed by South Park Digital Studios LLC, a joint venture of Parker and Stone and Comedy Central. Anne Garefino, general manager of South Park Digital Studios stated: "One goal in moving forward is to make every episode of South Park available worldwide ... Currently, full episodes are not available in the U.K., Australia and a few other foreign territories, but we're not far off from making that happen. We have some contractual issues to sift through but we're getting there."On the move to make the episodes available for free, Sam Thielman of Variety wrote: "It's a good time for Parker and Stone to distance themselves from the YouTube community given Comedy Central parent Viacom's protracted lawsuit against the Web-based video distrib, which features clips from the show." Viacom is suing YouTube for US$1 billion in damages relating to video clips displayed on the video-sharing website. Richard Menta of MP3 Newswire wrote: "With all their content already out there Stone, Parker and Viacom realized offering South Park episodes online directly is a low risk proposition. They might as well draw some ad revenue from it."At 0000 EAT Saturday (2100 UTC Friday), the Republic of South Sudan achieved independent recognition, becoming the newest country on the planet. The parliament speaker for the new country recited a formal independence declaration. After independence was declared, the South Sudanese flag was lifted for all to see, with Sudan People's Liberation Army/Movement secretary general Pagan Amum stating: "Today we shall raise the flag of South Sudan to join the nations of the world". Thousands of jubilant people celebrated in the new country's capital Juba. They danced in the streets, sang songs and waved flags.  Churches rang their bells at midnight as independence arrived. People crowded to the official ceremonial site, held at the mausoleum of  John Garang, leader of the rebellion who died several months after the peace deal was signed with Sudan, ending the bloody conflict. Many of the celebrants spoke emotionally of their family members who died in the long struggle with Sudan.George Garang, an English teacher, said he lost his father, grandfather and eleven brothers. "My whole body feels happy," he said. Valentino Achak Deng, who was a refugee during the war, said: "Really in my heart what makes me happiest is that from today, when people ask me where I am from, I do not have to say Sudan."Salva Kiir Mayardit has assumed the role as president of South Sudan. Kiir swore to pledge true alliance and faithfulness to South Sudan. In a speech, Kiir declared amnesty for any who have taken up arms against Sudan.Kiir insisted that martyrs for the cause of the new country did not die in vain, although South Sudan waited 56 years to be free. The southern Sudanese had agitated for more rights, even before Sudan became free from its British colonizers in 1956. Sudan was divided into three separate demographic groups, with the southern part of the country home to Christians and animists and the northern part dominated by Arab populations and those of Muslim faith. Kiir said to people of Abyei, Darfur, Blue Nile and South Kordofan, who remain part of Sudan, that "we have not forgotten you. When you cry, we cry. When you bleed, we bleed. I pledge to you today that we will find a just peace for all."Amongst those attending the event were Ban Ki-moon, the current Secretary-General of the United Nations and Omar al-Bashir, the current president of Sudan. The latter was the guest of honour, despite the fact that the International Criminal Court has a warrant out for his arrest based on offences of genocide and crimes against humanity in the Darfur region."We congratulate our brothers in the south for the establishment of their new state," al-Bashir said at the event. "We share their joy and celebration. The will of the people of the south has to be respected."Two million individuals died in the civil war between the two territories of Sudan and Southern Sudan and four million more exiled,  a war that was waged for decades. Control of south Sudan's oil rich reserves was the primary reason for the fighting. An agreement of peace was signed in  2005, effectively bringing the war to an end, and Sudan became one of the first countries to recognise South Sudan. Under the regulations of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, Sudan held an independence referendum. In excess of 99% of those participating in the vote agreed to the concept of independence for South Sudan. Meanwhile, the United Nations plans to make the independent state its 193rd recognised country and its 54th African U.N. member state. United States president Barack Obama formerly recognized the new nation on behalf of the US and acknowledged the enormous struggle of its people to achieve independence.South Sudan remains a desperately poor country, with one in five of its inhabitants chronically hungry, only one third  having access to safe drinking water and with the world's highest rate of maternal death. The country lacks infrastructure such as roads and railways. It remains  torn by ethnic and tribal rivalries and many problems with the north remain unresolved, including the exact boundary line.  Important revenue for Sudan has come from the rich oilfields of the south, keeping the country afloat and essential now for both economies. A formula remains to be developed on how to split these revenues between the two areas.U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice said today that the peace process between Sudan and North Sudan could come apart if issues  such as the division of the oil revenues and the border location are not solved soon.File:1937urss.jpgFile:Worker and Kolkhoznitsa.jpgOn Saturday, Worker and Kolkhoznitsa, a giant statue of Soviet times, was returned to a pedestal in Moscow, Russia. It was done after a long five-year restoration process since the monument was dismantled in 2003. The statue was initially expected to return in 2005, but when the Expo 2010 was awarded to Shanghai instead of Moscow the restoration process was stalled due to a shortage of funds.The 24.5-meter high Worker and the Kolkhoz Woman holding a hammer and a sickle, the symbols of the Soviet Union, steel monument by Vera Mukhina and Boris Iofan was first showed at an exhibition in Paris in 1937. It was later returned to Russia after the exhibition  and installed to a place just outside the Exhibition of Achievements of the People's Economy. The monument became a recognisable symbol of the Soviet Union after it was chosen as a Mosfilm studio logo in 1947 featuring in the opening credits of many Soviet films produced by the studio.It's expected that the statue would now last for centuries.  Plans for the future of the monument included construction of an exhibition hall in the statue's pedestal.  One of the rejected projects was to introduce a parking lot beneath the statue's square.Earlier this week, on Monday, an exhibition of Vera Mukhina works was opened in St. Petersburg's Russian Museum, presenting more than 200 of her sculptures, graphic works, and decorative and applied arts, including the several sketches and studies, as well as the Worker and Kolkhoz Woman monument’s model.The official monument reopening ceremony is scheduled for December 3–5.The Spanish national broadcaster, RTVE, is in danger of indirectly  disqualifying its own Eurovision entrant, former Operación Triunfo finalist Soraya Arnelas, 26, who is already in Moscow, Russia awaiting the final round on Saturday.File:Soraya Arnelas3.jpgA last-minute reprieve from the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) allowed Spain to vote in the second semi-final instead of the first, due to a televised political debate. RTVE ran a professional tennis match, the Madrid Open matchup between Fernando Verdasco and Juan Mónaco, an hour past schedule Thursday evening, delaying the Eurovision semi-final broadcast and disenfranchising the Spanish viewers ready to vote for their favorite songs.Spain, as a top monetary contributor to the EBU, automatically qualifies for the final but Spanish viewers were allowed to cast votes for one of the two semi-final rounds, as were the other automatic qualifiers (the United Kingdom, France, Germany, and host nation Russia).The scheduling delay is in violation of the rules set forth to the national broadcasters by the EBU, and punishment could range from a fine incurred by RTVE to complete disqualification for Spain, who was slated to have Soraya perform her song "La noche es para mí" 25th and last in the final Saturday evening. The newspaper El Mundo speculated that the delay might have occurred on purpose, as RTVE may not want to take the task of hosting the event in 2010 in the event that Spain wins. El Mundo also remarked that the EBU could take a harsher stance toward RTVE if they deem it a case of "voter fraud," as the disenfranchisement of Spanish televoters, replaced with a backup jury, would have changed the result of qualifying nations. In any case, the EBU is the governing body which decides if the delay was intentional or not and what punishments should be given to RTVE for breaking Contest rules.When asked for comment by the newspaper ABC, RTVE cited "technical difficulties" but did not elaborate further. According to ABC, RTVE's teletext service had announced that the live broadcast would start at 9:45 p.m., 45 minutes after the broadcast started in Moscow, but neither RTVE's website nor its continuity announcements had made note of any change. The Eurovision broadcast started transmission from the beginning on RTVE's "La 2" channel at 10:06 p.m., 66 minutes late.No public statement has yet been made by the EBU; the EBU went ahead with the scheduled press conference for the ten semi-final winners Thursday evening.The angry "Why don't you shut up?" that King Juan Carlos I of Spain uttered against Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez a week ago on Saturday has apparently reached a cult status in Spain and Venezuela.A mobile phone ringtone remix of the quote text has been downloaded 500,000 times (generating some €1.5 million revenues). The ringtone features a voice actor (avoiding legal issues) with beats and a loop effect emphasising the 'shut up'. A student group from the Venezuelan capital of Caracas which opposes the President has downloaded the ringtone too. "It's a form of protest, it's something that a lot of people would like to tell the president. Now, whenever we call each other, that's what we hear," said Laura Solorzano, 21, in a telephone interview with the Miami Herald.Today, the internet domain name of the quote was sold on eBay for €10,200 to a Spanish power seller called 'daikoku-design'. Juan Antonio Morales, 34, of Almería, Spain, had reserved the domain shortly after news of the dispute broke. The video on YouTube has been viewed over 1.3 million times, and there are numerous parodies using the quote. T-shirts and coffee mugs with the slogan are also selling well. The phrase has also become notable enough to merit an article on Wikipedia.At the Ibero-American summit in Santiago, Chile on November 10, Chávez called the Spain's former prime minister, José María Aznar, a "fascist". Current Prime Minister of Spain José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero tried to reply, but Chávez, although his microphone was switched off, kept interrupting him. The Spanish King first pointed a finger at Mr. Chávez, with the words "Y tu" (and you). Then, while Zapatero still tried to reply, he said “¿Por qué no te callas?” while making a gesture with his hand. Note that the King used the informal 'te callas' instead of the formal and polite third-person form. Zapatero finally  replied that "...in a forum where there are democratic governments ... one of the essential principles is respect. You can disagree radically, without being disrespectful." 'The rare outburst of the King has led to some disturbance in political relations between the countries; Chávez demanded an apology from the King but said he did not want a political conflict with Spain, while Spanish diplomats hope the situation will soon normalise. The Spanish PM stressed the incident was magnified by of the media attention it received. In statements to the press, the president of Brazil, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, minimized the incident between Hugo Chávez and the King of Spain: "There is little difference in opinion between King Juan Carlos and Chavez. There are many other differences between heads of State. Divergence is part of a democratic meeting."The situation brings attention to changes Chávez has proposed to the Venezuelan constitution, which would lift the restriction on the number of terms for the President of Venezuela.Carlos Mendo, one of the founders of Spanish newspaper El Pais died on Monday at the age of 77. His death was announced on the newspaper's website. It said that Mendo had been hospitalised for several weeks with an undisclosed illness.After graduating he joined news agency EFE in 1958. Mendo then joined the United Press International agency, first as their Rome correspondent and then as the Spanish bureau chief.In 1965 Mendo returned to EFE, this time as managing director. He held the post during the time of the agency's expansion. After leaving EFE in 1969, Medno joined the Prisa publishing group where three years later he would be part of the team that founded the El Pais newspaper.Mendo continued to work for the El Pais newspaper and in 1979 became the paper's London correspondent.A spectator has been killed and at least 10 people injured after an aircraft struck spectators at an airshow in Germany yesterday. The one-engined propellor-driven aircraft exited the runway after failing to take off and ploughed into a group that had congregated around a snack stand.The accident occurred at Kindel Air Field, which is located south of Berlin, near Eisenach. The aircraft involved was a Zlin Z-37 Cmelak, a Czech built single-seater plane which had been used by authorities in former East Germany as a cropduster.A 45-year-old woman was killed, and the 35-year-old pilot had to be freed from his wrecked aircraft and was badly injured. A 14-year-old girl is hospitalised in a critical condition, according to Bloomberg, although other sources suggest the 14-year-old and a nine-year-old child were amongst those less seriously injured. Some reports suggest 15 people were wounded by the crash, and German TV network ZDF suggested the plane struck a children's carousel near the runway's end and not a refreshments stall.An acrobatic group known by the name of Spelbound has been declared as the winner of Britain's Got Talent 2010, a televised variety talent show competition broadcast on ITV in the United Kingdom. As the winning act of the show, Spelbound have won £100,000 (US$144,580, €120,313, A$175,079) and a place at The Royal Variety Performance, an annual gala evening that is attended by senior members of the British Royal Family.In no particular order, the top three acts were revealed to be two dancers known by their stage name of Twist and Pulse, gymnastic group Spelbound and Kieran Gaffney, whose act involves playing on the drum kit. After Kieran Gaffney was revealed to be in third place, Anthony McPartlin, who hosts Britain's Got Talent with Declan Donnelly, said to Kieran: "Well done Kieran. Kieran, you're a star, you came back, you got all the way to the final. I know you've loved this. You've loved this, haven't you?" In response to this, Kieran Gaffney stated: "Thank you very much. Thank you, everyone for supporting me. Thank you."Shortly afterwards, on the episode that was broadcast live on ITV1 on Saturday, Anthony announced: "After tens of thousands of auditons, five semi-finals and an amazing final, this...this is it. One of you is about to walk away with £100,000 and a place at this year's Royal Variety Performance. The winner of Britain's Got Talent 2010 is...Spelbound!" Glen Murphy from Twist and Pulse commented about finishing in second place, stating: "Yeah, it's amazing. I can't even believe it. I can't believe it at all."Alex Uttley, a 24-year-old member of Spelbound, commented on the gymnastic group's victory, commenting: "Oh, my god. This is unbelieveable. We just want to say thank you to everyone out there. It just shows that all our hard work has paid off." One of the coaches of Spelbound, named Neil Griffiths, stated about Spelbound: "Oh, they've worked so hard over the last few weeks. Um, since the semi-final, we...we really had to pull out the stops to try and up the game. They've not known they've worked in the gym from six in the morning till twelve...twelve o'clock of the night. I couldn't have asked for more. Um, it's a team of coaches. I don't take all the credit myself. There's, uh, two people up there that know who they are who've been fantastic."Spelbound consists of 24-year-old Alex Uttley, Nicholas Illingworth, aged 24, Adam Buckingham, aged 21, 20-year-old Adam McAssey, 19-year-old Douglas Fordyce, 18-year-old Edward Upcott, 18-year-old Leighanne Cowler, 17-year-old Katie Axten, 17-year-old Lauren Kemp, 15-year-old Jonathan Stranks, Abigail Ralph, aged 15, 13-year-old Hollianne Wood and Amy Mackenzie, aged 12. Bookmakers had previously predicted that Spelbound would be the most likely act to become the winner of the series.The running order for the final started with Twist and Pulse. The second act to perform was Liam McNally, a 14-year-old singer. The running order subsequently continued with 40-year-old impressionist Paul Burling, singer Christopher Stone, aged 28, Tina & Chandi, a woman and dog dancing act, Connected, a five-piece singing group, Kieran Gaffney, aged 12, 22-year-old Tobias Mead, a dancer, 80-year-old singer Janey Cutler and Spelbound in that particular order.Earlier on in the final, Britain's Got Talent judge Amanda Holden has stated to Spelbound: "We are hosting the 2012 Olympics and I think 'what a brilliant opening act'." Fellow judge Piers Morgan also commented that "[t]he purpose of this show is to identify hidden great British talent. You are that act." After Spelbound won in the final, another judge, named Simon Cowell, stated that "the right boys and girls won on the night" and that he could "only say on live TV that that was one of the most astonishing things I have ever seen. Seriously."On Saturday, Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism in Chicago issued diplomas which misspelled the word integrated in "Medill School of Journalism, Media, Integrated Marketing Communications".  Around 30 diplomas out of 250 distributed contained the spelling error, "itegrated".In an e-mail quoted by Chicago Tribune, department lecturer Desiree Hanford said, "The diplomas are issued by the university, so we will work with the [university] registrar's office Monday to provide new diplomas to these students".Inside Higher Ed said some alumni had objected to the program's name change several years ago, and found the current situation amusing given their opposition to including integrated in the program's name.The journalism program has a grading policy called the "Medill F", where assignments that contain an error such as having a spelling error result in the assignment being failed.  Graduating student Kit Fox, according to the Chicago Tribune, said of the Medill F, "When as a freshman you hear about it for the first time, it sounds extremely harsh. It sounds almost unfair...And then you look at the stakes of what journalism is, and you realize it's much more forgiving than what happens in the real world." He also told FOX 32 News, "Maybe it was just one last edit test for us grads, or just some fantastic irony".Marvel Comics announced Thursday that an upcoming issue of a Spider-Man comic will feature United States President-elect Barack Obama meeting the web-slinging superhero.A six-page tongue-in-cheek story, to appear in The Amazing Spider-Man issue 583, "Spidey Meets the President!" is created by Zeb Wells, Todd Nauck and Frank D'Armata. The issue features Peter Parker visiting Washington, D.C., on photo assignment to cover the Presidential and Vice Presidential inauguration ceremony. The Chameleon is also in town, hoping to sabotage the ceremony with a look-a-like impostor of Obama. Parker's alter-ego Spiderman must save the day from his arch-enemy's nefarious plans.The issue will appear on newsstands January 14, before the actual inauguration.Among the lines of dialog in the issue are "Ya hear that, Chameleon? The president-elect here just appointed me ... secretary of shuttin' you up."The issue will have a commemorative cover, and retail for US$3.99 (£2.65). Alan Giroux, owner of All About Books and Comics in Phoenix, says he predicts the issue to be on the collectors' market for $20 by the first day. "This issue will have a lot of heat and go for premium prices. I already have people calling about it," he said.The issue's cover will feature Obama smiling, with a thumbs up pose. Spiderman is featured hanging upside-down beside him, whispering: "Hey, if you get to be on my cover, can I be on the dollar bill?"The issue is not official merchandise of the US Democratic Party, Obama campaign, the Obama-Biden Transition Project, or White House.The BBC has responded to complaints that the BBC One schedule for February 23 was too sports dominated.In a statement released by the British national broadcaster, they said they “are sorry that some viewers felt the BBC One schedule on 23 February contained too much sport.”The statement came after the BBC received 124 complaints about the level of sports coverage on last Saturday. The schedule, which the British newspaper The Guardian defines as “sports dominated,” covered sport for eleven and a half hours of Saturday afternoon.The statement added that “we [the BBC] realise that not everyone enjoys watching sport but there is undeniably a large section of our audience who do.” The statement also said that  the BBC should provide content which will be enjoyed by the “large section” of society who enjoy watching sport.The BBC’s sports coverage included eight hours of coverage of the Six Nations rugby tournament, which the BBC has secured the Six Nations coverage up to 2013, in a deal which cost the BBC 160 million GBP.Squash is among the seven sports considered for new events in the 2016 Olympics. The other nominated sports are baseball, golf, karate, roller sports, rugby and softball. Of these, four were nominated for the London 2012 Olympics, but none were chosen. At the International Olympic Committee (IOC) session in Singapore 2005, squash won the vote to get into the Olympic program, but did not get the 2/3 majority needed for adoption. The new sports for 2016 are baseball and softball, with baseball having been in the Olympics before as a "test" sport, however it did not succeed and was only on the program for one event before it was removed.Squash is among the favourites because it already in 2005 proved to be favourite for the IOC members at that time. Since 2005, according to the World Squash Federation (WSF), there has been a lot of work to get squash into the Olympic Games. A marked rise in players across the world has occurred, and approximately 13 new countries have been adopted into the WSF.However, baseball is also considered among the favourites, because it has been tried before and because it is a major sport in the United States and growing in the rest of the world. Notably, Chicago is bidding to host the 2016 Olympics, and therefore a major US sport could be the natural choice. The last of the three favourites is golf, because it is by far the most played sport of the candidates. However, it is seen as a disadvantage that the Olympic tournament may not be the top priority for the players, who may feel they would rather concentrate on the US or European tours.Monday marked St. Patrick's Day, a national holiday in Ireland and a cause for celebration in many other nations.Australia's Irish pubs were expected to do booming business, while Sydney hosted one of the world's many St. Patrick's Day parades on Sunday.In the United States, Chicago's main river was coloured green on Saturday.A memorial to the Flight of the Earls was dedicated at Andermatt, Switzerland to mark the day. Early in the 17th Century, the last of the Gaelic Earls fled Ireland for Spain, travelling through Andermatt during their journey.St. Patrick's Day parades are conducted in many regions of Japan. The Tokyo parade began in 1992, with this year's edition held on Sunday in the city's Omotesandō neighbourhood. Elsewhere in Asia, Singapore also held a St. Patrick's Day parade, this year connected with the 140th anniverary of the introduction of Guinness beer to that nation.Finally from Ireland itself, nearly all of that nation's cabinet ministers will be in various nations for promotional visits. Prime Minister Bertie Ahern was in Washington to present a bowl of shamrocks to United States President George W. Bush, among other activities.Some of the notable pieces from the gold and silver hoard which was found in a private field in Staffordshire, England by a metal-detector user have been put on display in the British Museum in the city of London. Approximately 1,500 pieces were found in July of this year; the discovery was reported by news sources in September.  The value of the hoard itself is still being checked.  18 of the pieces have now gone on display in the museum in London, England, and can be seen by members of the public.Fred Johnson, who is the owner of the land in which the hoard was found, said:  "It's been an incredible experience.  I'm overwhelmed by it all.  They say this will change the history books; it's a strange thought that came from something lying in my field all this time.  I'm trying to keep a level head about it.  I'm trying not to think at all about the value of it."  Johnson will share the sum of the value of the hoard with Terry Herbert, who found the pieces.  The hoard is believed to date back to the 7th century."People laugh at metal detectorists," Herbert said in late September. "I've had people go past and go 'beep beep, he's after pennies'. Well no, we are out there to find this kind of stuff and it is out there." Michael Lewis is the deputy head of the Department of Portable Antiquities in the British Museum. Speaking to BBC News about this event, he said: "The view is that it was probably in some sort of container but that has not survived and it was deliberately hoarded, put into the ground, what is unclear is why, and I suppose what we find is they would have been objects that had been stripped from the enemies' weapons."What is interesting about the hoard as a whole is all the objects are associated with war to some or a greater extent. What the hoard consists of is mainly gold objects, there are some silver ones, basically they have been stripped from whatever they were on for instance sword fittings. What it demonstrates is that the Anglo-Saxons as a people were very able to do amazing things with objects and I reckon people nowadays attempting to make these objects would have great difficulty in doing so."Two probes have been initiated into the collapse of the Big Valley Jamboree stage which killed one person, placed four others in the critical care unit and caused injuries to 75 others in Camrose, Alberta located in Canada.  "We are trying to determine from what is left of the evidence what damage was done by the wind and what damage was down by rescue workers.  We may not be able to make that determination. So that is going to hamper things. It will be tougher," Chris Chodan, spokesman for Alberta Occupational Health and Safety. Panhandle Productions has brought in independent investigators to determine why the stage collapsed and to collect evidence. Due to the large number of people trapped under the stage the evidence had to be moved for rescue operations. The stage collapsed shortly before 6:00 p.m. local time on Saturday killing 35-year-old Donna Moore, who was attending the festival from Lloydminster. Premier Global Productions supplies the stage for the event, which are transported from venue to venue in sections via three semi trailers.  "It's their stage.  In fact, I know this stage has been used by Paul McCartney, it's been used by Metallica, and by Tim McGraw on tour." said Larry Werner the producer from Panhandle Productions.The stage is suspected to have been brought down by a phenomenon called plough wind, which produces winds similar to a tornado. This particular front hit speeds greater than 100 km/hr (62 mi/hr). A plough wind travels in narrow straight line paths rather than in circular formations, but causes damage similar to that inflicted by a tornado.Alberta Municipal Affairs has initiated their investigation into the engineering specifications of the stage and emergency procedures. Alberta occupational health and safety is investigating building codes.The Big Valley Jamboree is a large annual country music festival located in Camrose, Alberta, Canada which sees 25,000 people attending the four day event.The incident apparently took place due to overcrowding at the entrance to the grounds of the event, located in Duisburg, Germany, which more than a million people were reported to have attended. Despite warnings by police of overcrowding, more people tried to enter the grounds. There is speculation that the panic may have begun when people fell after trying to cross a barrier, and subsequently spread.Witness Udo Sandhoefer said that people "climbed up the walls and tried somehow to get into the grounds from the side, and the people in the crowd that moved up simply ran over those who were lying on the ground."Emergency responders apparently encountered difficulties in reaching those in need of assistance due to the number of people in the area.  Officials also decided not to evacuate the grounds of the event, citing concerns that a larger panic would be sparked if more people knew of the deaths.A woman attending the event said that "[t]here were piles of injured on the ground, some being resuscitated, others dead and covered with sheets. It was way too full in the afternoon, everybody wanted to get in."A statement from president Christian Wulff said that "[i]t is terrible that such a catastrophe brought death, suffering and pain to a peaceful festival full of happy young people from many countries."The mayor of Duisburg, Adolf Sauerland, said that security measures at the event were sufficient, and that an investigation into the incident was already under way.Today in a press conference at Taipei City Hall, the Organizing Committee of 2009 Summer Deaflympics recently recruited a famous Taiwanese theater director Stan Sheng-chuan Lai as the Art Director of 2009 Summer Deaflympics. According to the officials, the opening, closing, and several on-site programs will be arranged by Stan Lai after his participation."The ability of sign language is required for everyone at any Deaflympics or world-class games related to deaf athletes, that's everyone who knows. But on the other hand, it's a great opportunity for Taipei City Government to showcase creations and cultures and to promote deaf culture since the Government won the bidding to hold the 2009 [Summer] Deaflympics. Besides of professional ability, I think that volunteers from every industry will play a great role to determine the image and result of this game [2009 Summer Deaflympics]," said Stan Lai.With his participation, the sports and culture industries in Taiwan will make a great combination at 2009 Summer Deaflympics even before its beginning at September 2009.Ben E King, the soul singer recognised for memorable track "Stand by Me", died on Thursday at the age of 76.According to publicist Phil Brown, King died in New Jersey of natural causes. King was best known for being a part of The Drifters in the 1950s who had hits such as "Save the Last Dance for Me", and "There Goes my Baby". Later on when he left the band and embarked on a solo career, he took on the name "Ben E King" and brought out notable tracks "Spanish Harlem" and "Supernatural Thing — Part One".  In 1961 he released the song "Stand by Me".  It was later the title track for the 1986 film Stand by Me directed by Rob Reiner.In an interview with Boston public television station WGBH, King recalled writing track "Stand by Me", saying, "when I wrote 'Stand by Me' as a song, and to know that the song will probably be here for hundreds and hundreds of years to come, it's great".At the news of King's death, many sent their condolences and paid tribute online through social media. On Twitter, novelist Salman Rushdie linked King's "Stand by Me", tweeting "Thanks Ben E King", and musician Gary U.S. Bonds wrote about his friendship with King on Facebook, saying, "With an extremely heavy heart, I must say goodbye to one of the sweetest, gentlest and gifted souls that I have had the privilege of knowing and calling my friend for more than 50 years — Mr. Ben E. King [...] Our sincere condolences go out to Betty and the entire family."Survived by his wife Betty, along with three children and six grandchildren, King, originally known as Benjamin Earl Nelson, started in a doo-wop band, The Five Crowns, who eventually became The Drifters. According to BBC News, the tracks "Stand by Me", "Spanish Harlem", and "There Goes my Baby" are on the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's list of 500 songs that Shaped Rock and Roll. Talking to The Guardian in 2013, King spoke about his voice in "Stand by Me". He said, "In my vocal I think you can hear something of my earlier times when I'd sing in subway halls for the echo, and perform doo-wop on street corners".A new historic physics record has been set by scientists for exceedingly small writing, opening a new door to computing's future. Stanford University physicists have claimed to have written the letters "SU" at sub-atomic size.Graduate students Christopher Moon, Laila Mattos, Brian Foster and Gabriel Zeltzer, under the direction of assistant professor of physics Hari Manoharan, have produced the world's smallest lettering, which is approximately 1.5 nanometres tall, using a molecular projector, called Scanning Tunneling Microscope (STM) to push individual carbon monoxide molecules on a copper or silver sheet surface, based on interference of electron energy states. A nanometre (Greek: νάνος, nanos, dwarf; μετρώ, metrό, count) is a unit of length in the metric system, equal to one billionth of a metre (i.e., 10-9 m or one millionth of a millimetre), and also equals ten Ångström, an internationally recognized non-SI unit of length. It is often associated with the field of nanotechnology."We miniaturised their size so drastically that we ended up with the smallest writing in history," said Manoharan. "S" and "U," the two letters in honor of their employer have been reduced so tiny in nanoimprint that if used to print out 32 volumes of an Encyclopedia, 2,000 times, the contents would easily fit on a pinhead.In the world of downsizing, nanoscribes Manoharan and Moon have proven that information, if reduced in size smaller than an atom, can be stored in more compact form than previously thought. In computing jargon, small sizing results to greater speed and better computer data storage. "Writing really small has a long history. We wondered: What are the limits? How far can you go? Because materials are made of atoms, it was always believed that if you continue scaling down, you'd end up at that fundamental limit. You'd hit a wall," said Manoharan.In writing the letters, the Stanford team utilized an electron's unique feature of "pinball table for electrons" — its ability to bounce between different quantum states. In the vibration-proof basement lab of Stanford's Varian Physics Building, the physicists used a Scanning tunneling microscope in encoding the "S" and "U" within the patterns formed by the electron's activity, called wave function, arranging carbon monoxide molecules in a very specific pattern on a copper or silver sheet surface. "Imagine [the copper as] a very shallow pool of water into which we put some rocks [the carbon monoxide molecules]. The water waves scatter and interfere off the rocks, making well defined standing wave patterns," Manoharan noted. If the "rocks" are placed just right, then the shapes of the waves will form any letters in the alphabet, the researchers said. They used the quantum properties of electrons, rather than photons, as their source of illumination. According to the study, the atoms were ordered in a circular fashion, with a hole in the middle. A flow of electrons was thereafter fired at the copper support, which resulted into a ripple effect in between the existing atoms. These were pushed aside, and a holographic projection of the letters "SU" became visible in the space between them. "What we did is show that the atom is not the limit — that you can go below that," Manoharan said.  "It's difficult to properly express the size of their stacked S and U, but the equivalent would be 0.3 nanometres. This is sufficiently small that you could copy out the Encyclopaedia Britannica on the head of a pin not just once, but thousands of times over," Manoharan and his nanohologram collaborator Christopher Moon explained.The team has also shown the salient features of the holographic principle, a property of quantum gravity theories which resolves the black hole information paradox within string theory. They stacked "S" and the "U" - two layers, or pages, of information — within the hologram. The team stressed their discovery was concentrating electrons in space, in essence, a wire, hoping such a structure could be used to wire together a super-fast quantum computer in the future. In essence, "these electron patterns can act as holograms, that pack information into subatomic spaces, which could one day lead to unlimited information storage," the study states.The "Conclusion" of the Stanford article goes as follows:The team is not the first to design or print small letters, as attempts have been made since as early as 1960. In December 1959, Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman, who delivered his now-legendary lecture entitled "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom," promised new opportunities for those who "thought small." Feynman was an American physicist known for the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, the theory of quantum electrodynamics and the physics of the superfluidity of supercooled liquid helium, as well as work in particle physics (he proposed the parton model).Feynman offered two challenges at the annual meeting of the American Physical Society, held that year in Caltech, offering a $1000 prize to the first person to solve each of them. Both challenges involved nanotechnology, and the first prize was won by William McLellan, who solved the first. The first problem required someone to build a working electric motor that would fit inside a cube 1/64 inches on each side. McLellan achieved this feat by November 1960 with his 250-microgram 2000-rpm motor consisting of 13 separate parts.In 1985, the prize for the second challenge was claimed by Stanford Tom Newman, who, working with electrical engineering professor Fabian Pease, used electron lithography. He wrote or engraved the first page of Charles Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities, at the required scale, on the head of a pin, with a beam of electrons. The main problem he had before he could claim the prize was finding the text after he had written it; the head of the pin was a huge empty space compared with the text inscribed on it. Such small print could only be read with an electron microscope. In 1989, however, Stanford lost its record, when Donald Eigler and Erhard Schweizer, scientists at IBM's Almaden Research Center in San Jose were the first to position or manipulate 35 individual atoms of xenon one at a time to form the letters I, B and M using a STM. The atoms were pushed on the surface of the nickel to create letters 5nm tall.In 1991, Japanese researchers managed to chisel 1.5 nm-tall characters onto a molybdenum disulphide crystal, using the same STM method. Hitachi, at that time, set the record for the smallest microscopic calligraphy ever designed. The Stanford effort failed to surpass the feat, but it, however, introduced a novel technique. Having equaled Hitachi's record, the Stanford team went a step further. They used a holographic variation on the IBM technique, for instead of fixing the letters onto a support, the new method created them holographically. In the scientific breakthrough, the Stanford team has now claimed they have written the smallest letters ever - assembled from subatomic-sized bits as small as 0.3 nanometers, or roughly one third of a billionth of a meter. The new super-mini letters created are 40 times smaller than the original effort and more than four times smaller than the IBM initials, states the paper Quantum holographic encoding in a two-dimensional electron gas, published online in the journal Nature Nanotechnology. The new sub-atomic size letters are around a third of the size of the atomic ones created by Eigler and Schweizer at IBM.A subatomic particle is an elementary or composite particle smaller than an atom. Particle physics and nuclear physics are concerned with the study of these particles, their interactions, and non-atomic matter. Subatomic particles include the atomic constituents electrons, protons, and neutrons. Protons and neutrons are composite particles, consisting of quarks."Everyone can look around and see the growing amount of information we deal with on a daily basis. All that knowledge is out there. For society to move forward, we need a better way to process it, and store it more densely," Manoharan said. "Although these projections are stable — they'll last as long as none of the carbon dioxide molecules move — this technique is unlikely to revolutionize storage, as it's currently a bit too challenging to determine and create the appropriate pattern of molecules to create a desired hologram," the authors cautioned. Nevertheless, they suggest that "the practical limits of both the technique and the data density it enables merit further research." In 2000, it was Hari Manoharan, Christopher Lutz and Donald Eigler who first experimentally observed quantum mirage at the IBM Almaden Research Center in San Jose, California. In physics, a quantum mirage is a peculiar result in quantum chaos. Their study in a paper published in Nature, states they demonstrated that the Kondo resonance signature of a magnetic adatom located at one focus of an elliptically shaped quantum corral could be projected to, and made large at the other focus of the corral.Stanisław Lem, one of the most popular modern science fiction writers who wrote in a language other than English, died March 27, aged 84.  He died of heart failure while staying at a cardio-surgery clinic in Kraków, Poland.Lem, described as “one of the deep spirits of the age,”  was the author of dozens of books, which have been translated into 41 languages and sold over 27 million copies. He gained international fame  for The Cyberiad, a series of short stories from a mechanical world ruled by robots, first published in English in 1974. Despite his international popularity, Lem is not a member of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America. He turned down an invitation to join the non-profit association after his honorary membership was taken away because of anger at his critical commentary about the quality of much of the science fiction being published in the United States. Many of his books have been filmed, most notably the book Solaris, which has spawned two films - one by Andrei Tarkovsky in 1972 and the other by Steven Soderbergh and starring George Clooney in 2002.George Lucas' final installment of the prequel Star Wars trilogy, Revenge of the Sith, opened in theaters in 105 countries around the world on May 19. According to William Arnold of the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, and Claudia Puig of USA Today, Episode III may be the best of the Star Wars series. James Berardinelli of ReelViews claimed that Episode III is, "the best installment in the Star Wars series since 1980's The Empire Strikes Back." However, Peter Travers of Rolling Stone begs to differ. Travers states that Lucas' ability to turn, "flesh-and-blood actors into cardboard cutouts," makes Lucas' movie unworthy of its heralded title of best yet.In its opening weekend, Revenge of the Sith earned a total, counting from Thursday, May 19 to Sunday, May 22, USD $158,449,700 in the domestic United States box office, $145,500,000 internationally, for a total of $303,949,700 worldwide. With this opening, Star Wars Episode III broke four records including single day gross, opening day gross, three-day gross, and four-day gross.The final Star Wars film, Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith premiered at the Cannes Festival on May 15, 2005, with George Lucas and the stars of the movie in attendance at the Grand Theatre Lumiere.At the subsequent United Kingdom premiere on May 16, 2005, fans turned out in costume.  Outside London's Odeon cinema in Leicester Square, dozens of fans dressed as storm troopers, Jedi knights, and other characters for the film.The movie is about the temptation of a Jedi knight to the Dark Side of the force, and his fiery transformation into the arch-villain Darth Vader.Star Wars Episode III: Revenge of the Sith is scheduled for general release in the United States on May 19, 2005, and is rated PG-13.Ringo Starr, who is a member of The Beatles, was given his own star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on Monday. The event, which was also celebrating fifty years since the pavement was founded, took place during the night for the first time. Starr was the 2401st individual to have a star awarded on the walk. The event also took place outside of the Capitol Records Building. Starr said outside of the event: "This is the start of the next 50 years of stars. I'm proud to be the first one." According to Reuters, fellow Beatles bandmate Sir Paul McCartney was unable to attend the ceremony due to the fact that he was in England at the time, Starr said. Less than twelve months before Ringo was given his star on the Walk of Fame, Paul McCartney assisted in revealing a star for another former Beatles member, the late George Harrison. The late John Lennon was also given a star on the pavement, which means that Paul McCartney is now the only member of the Beatles who has not yet been awarded a star. McCartney "[w]as selected and approved [for a star] many years ago. We are just waiting for his people to give us a date on when he would like to do it," according to a Hollywood Chamber of Commerce source.The event was also partly to promote "Y Not", the drummer's recently released album. During the ceremony for Ringo Starr's induction onto the walk, he commented: "It's cool to get [a star] at night. I don't know about you, but where I live, the stars come out at night." He referred to the other members of the Beatles as his "brothers". He also said about them: "They looked out for me, and I looked out for them. We all supported each other."The Toronto International Film Festival rages on in Canada, as various companies and celebrities host parties. One of the largest so far was eTalk Star! Schmooze hosted at the former CHUM-City Building in the Queen West neighbourhood of Toronto.Wikinews sent freelance photographer Robin Wong to this star-studded event, which included the casts of many of the movies being played at the festival.																														The second day of the festival didn't stop there.Toronto's Design Exchange museum and education centre hosted a party for the movie "Michael Clayton", for which George Clooney was scheduled. Earlier in the day, Sienna and Savannah Miller launched their new twenty8twelve fashion label at the Holt Renfrew department store, a classy, upscale Canadian chain.Tonight actress/singer Hilary Duff is scheduled to host a party at the club This is London. CTV will host an afterparty for Matt Damon's documentary Running the Sahara, and some of his Oceans co-stars are expected, including Clooney. Wyclef Jean and the African runners featured in the film are also on the guest list.A One x One Benefit at the Four Seasons Centre for the Performing Arts will see Matt Damon, Richard Gere, and Shakira. Gere scrambled up to Toronto today after appearing live on Good Morning America and Live with Regis and Kelly.A 2002 study by the Toronto International Film Festival Group found that the event brings CDN$67 million to the Toronto economy. With stars dropping CDN$5000 a night on a room at the Four Seasons Toronto, or $10K on a dinner at Bistro 990, the numbers quickly begin to explain themselves. Distributors spend $30 million on purchasing films for release at the fest, one of the top numbers worldwide.The celebrities taking part in a new entertainment show for ITV in UK, Dancing on Ice, today posed for the press at the Natural History Museum. The show will be presented by former champion ice skaters Torvill and Dean, reunited for the first time since 1999. Each celebrity will be partnered with a professional ice-skater to dance on ice each Saturday night, and will have to win votes from the public to continue on the show.Phillip Schofield, who will present the show, announced the names of the stars as they posed for the press photographers. A few passers by took photos using their mobile phones.The stars on the show include former England football goalkeeper David Seaman, the former children's tv presenter and now tv Exec Andi Peters, Olympic athlete Kelly Holmes, former It girl Tamara Beckwith and actor John Barrowman (who played "Captain" Jack in the recent Doctor Who tv series).Internet TV came one step closer to reality as startup web broadcaster Joost recently announced that it signed a deal with Warner Brothers to host some of its WBTV-branded content. This deal, along with content deals with other television providers, lately Time Warner and Sony Pictures Television, makes Joost (pronounced "juiced") the sweetheart aggregator and provider in the coming on-demand, freely distributed online TV broadcasts.Joost bills itself as an online community where viewers, "can watch what you want, when you want, in full-screen eye-quality proper TV." The service currently provides about 150 channels, although the availability of some channels varies by country or region due to copyright restrictions. Viewers can navigate screen menus to make programming choices, and then use “widgets” from drop-down menus that allow users to interact with the programming."Widgets include a clock, integration of instant messaging, RSS/News feeds and a chat room for the particular channel being viewed on the screen. Users have the ability to opt out of the widgets during viewing or can easily access them from the mouse-activated menus," according to John P. Gamboa of the Dailey Aztec.The development efforts at Joost are backed by technology-savvy web entrepreneurs Niklas Zennström and Janus Friis. The two used Internet peer-to-peer networking to create Kazaa, and then later Skype. The cutting-edge music file sharing and telephony implementations of these two applications, some say bleeding edge, appear to have had an affect on the approach being used now by the two at Joost along with co-developers. The copyright infringement-plagued Kazaa was sold to Sharman Networks in 2002. Skype was sold to eBay in October 2005 for $2.6 billion. In July last year, Kazaa settled with music record labels by making a $100 million payment as reparations for illegal file sharing activities employed by users of the application that enabled the distribution of copyright-infringed music files.Kazaa became a copyright bust. Skype became a jaw-dropping hit, and a hit in the jaw of telcom carriers whose management of voice transmission became undermined by the sub-set of Internet users with broadband connectivity and peer-to-peer web awareness. The evolution is distinctively one-way. Online broadband peer-to-peer connectivity is here to stay after a nasty birth."People are looking for increased choice and flexibility in their TV experience, while the entertainment industry needs to retain control over their content," said Joost chief executive officer Fredrik de Wahl. "We’ve married that consumer desire with the industry’s interests."The "marriage" of TV content to "consumer desire" is the hot-spot that media conglomerates are still seemingly trying to figure out as they dispense their less valuable content for Internet consumption. Joost has managed to secure some rights to webcast programming, but the content is not the highest quality broadcasted TV programming currently available through established subscription cable and satellite distribution channels, or even free airwave TV.Underlying the concept of Internet TV is the distribution of content in a way that is more efficient than the existing model. Peer-to-peer networking over the Internet makes programming available when a user asks for it. The 'on-demand' feature of this approach frees up space in the distribution pipeline and provides feedback to the aggregator to know exactly what is in demand. It gives a middle-man the leverage to negotiate with media conglomerates and then manage a pipeline flooded with unviewed content, thereby conserving bandwidth. It also lets viewers opt for free online TV programming through content arrangements made by the web broadcaster, who acts as a gateway to the programs. However, it is not an advertising-free service.The Joost hoopla is partly spurred on by its expansionist decision on May 1 to allow users of the Beta version to distribute 99 invitations to other people who could become Beta users.Stella English has been announced as the winner of the sixth series of British television programme The Apprentice. English was announced as the winner by host of the show, businessman Lord Alan Sugar, after the final task in which the two remaining contestants, English and Chris Bates, had to create and market a new alcoholic drink. English commented on winning the programme, saying: "There were times that I felt very tired and it was much harder than I ever thought it would be. But in terms of quitting, there was absolutely no way." She also said after winning the show that she hopes it will bring a "better quality of life" for her two children.Lord Sugar also released a statement about his decision to hire English. "It's a very, very important job where you need a very, very good organiser and someone who's very, very switched on," he said. "She's got the brain to do it." He added there was a chance of employment for second place candidate Bates. English will be employed at one of Lord Sugar's companies; Viglen, a company that deals with IT services.This series began to broadcast in October instead of it's regular spring slot due to concerns over Lord Sugar keeping his role on the show. Sugar was selected as a government advisor at the same time of the May general election.The South Carolina Democratic Party denied Stephen Colbert a place on the primary ballot Thursday.  “The council really agonized over this because they really like him, they love his show, and everyone thinks it’s wonderful that he cares about us,” said Carol Fowler, the chairwoman of the state’s Democratic Party.  The council voted 13-3 to reject Colbert's application.  According to their statement, Colbert did not meet two basic requirements:  that he be a viable national candidate; and that he actively campaign for the state’s primary."It's a distraction," said Waring Howe Jr., one of the executive council member who voted against Colbert, "and takes away from the seriousness of our primary here and takes attention from the serious candidates: Clinton, Edwards, Barack Obama and the rest."Colbert's Thursday night program centered around his campaign in South Carolina until a Democratic official called mid-show with the news of the council's rejection. "It's your loss Democrats," Colbert said. "I had a lot of good ideas."Colbert had originally announced his intention to run as both a Republican and Democrat, but only filed for the Democratic. The Republican primary ballot application cost was $35,000, versus $2,500 for the Democratic application.  Fowler stated the council will return Colbert's check.After three years working on a new television series for the Discovery Channel, Stephen Hawking concludes that aliens are "almost certain to exist" and could even be dangerous.Hawking says that it is rational to assume that intelligent life exists somewhere in the universe, and mathematically unlikely that life is unique to the Earth, given the existence of a hundred billion galaxies, each of them containing hundreds of millions of stars.Hawking imagines nomadic aliens, having exhausted their home's resources, could attempt to take control of other planets, invading with "massive ships", and draws a comparison with Christopher Columbus discovering America, resulting in similar devastating consequences. With this in mind he advises "intelligent life might develop into something we wouldn't want to meet." However, he believes that the most likely forms of life would be microbes or simple animals on planets, in the centre of stars or drifting through space.His declaration comes in the month of the 20th anniversary of the Hubble Space Telescope's launch into space.The Drake equation, created in the 1960s, estimates the probability of extraterrestrial civilizations; feeding in modern research gives a high likelihood. The contradiction between this and actual discovery is known as the Fermi paradox.Sir Martin Rees, the Astronomer Royal, supports efforts to search for transmissions that might be artificial in origin. "Even if we couldn't make much sense of it, we'd have learnt that 'intelligence' wasn't unique to the hardware inside human skulls, and had emerged elsewhere," he said.Into the Universe with Stephen Hawking will begin on May 9 on the Discovery Channel.Stephen Hawking, 68, retired as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge in 2009. Known for his research into cosmology, quantum gravity and black holes, he became a household name following the publication of his 1988 book A Brief History of Time, which remained on the Sunday Times bestseller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks.Stevie Wonder is slated to perform the pre-game show for Super Bowl XL on February 5, 2006. This announcement was not made by the NFL, but by Wonder's record label, Motown.Detroit, where Super Bowl 40 is being held, is the original home of Motown, and many of its residents were upset that England's Rolling Stones would be performing the prestigious half-time show.Police in Britain have recovered a stolen Leonardo da Vinci painting worth, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), £65 million (US$133 million)."Through careful investigations and intelligence-led police work we were able to locate the painting and make four arrests. We are extremely pleased to recover the ’Madonna of the Yarnwinder’ painting," said Mickey Dalgleish, the chief Inspector for Scotland Yard. The famous painting, Madonna of the Yarnwinder, painted by da Vinci in 1501, had been stolen from Drumlanrig Castle in Scotland, in August 2003, by two thieves who aimed to sell the painting in the future.Police raided a house in Glasgow, Scotland and seized the painting, making four arrests. The FBI listed the theft of the painting as of one of the world's top ten art crimes in recent years.The Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB) changed its content rating of the controversial Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas video game from "Mature" to "Adults Only" on Wednesday. The ESRB change came after a investigation proved that sexual content in the game could be unlocked by anyone with the Windows version or with a modified console. Graphic sex scenes in the game can be revealed if a user downloads a patch from the internet of the "Hot Coffee modification" or enters codes into a 3rd party modifier such as the game shark.     This opens up a locked mini-game that depicts characters as having sex. The secret code as well as the patch is widely available on the Internet such as gamer sites, MoFunZone.com and Gamespot.  In response to this, Rockstar Games and its parent company Take-Two Interactive stopped making the version of the game with the sexual content and plan to release a "Mature"-rated title in the fall with the "Hot Coffee" content removed. Game maker Take-Two says the 'game mod' is third-party software that violates the end-user license agreement of the company's intellectual property rights. Citing what the company calls standard industry practice to create content that never makes it into the final version of a game, the sex scenes included in the software, "were never intended to be found." After the rating change, stores such as Wal-Mart and Target pulled the game off their shelves under their policies not to sell "Adults Only"-rated games.This controversy has lead to major debate between execs and politicians whether the video game industry should continue to judge itself or not. Many of the watchdog groups were unaware that content like this is usually "locked away" instead of being deleted.An innovative "Children helping Children" project has been launched by local volunteers and students of a school in Chiang Mai, Northern Thailand. Named the Chiang Mai Charity Calendar 2008 it serves the dual purpose of promoting their 700-year-old city, and supporting disadvantaged children. Self-financed with no advertising, and produced by schoolchildren for a charitable cause, it is probably the first of its kind to surface in the travel industry, and something normally only in the domain of National Tourism Organizations.    The objectives are:Initially, to encourage well-off children to help poor kids in a 'create and donate' concept, using art pieces instead of money.To put Chiang Mai on the world map as a prime destination in its own right for leisure, conferences, medical tourism, high quality purchases, sports, education, studies, and not a stopover, as many perceive it to be.To raise funds for disadvantaged Thai children through sales of the calendar.To further motivate the kids who donated the paintings to continue doing worthwhile things - by letting them experience their own success, first hand.'The students, all from Prem Tinsulononda International School, were invited to create original paintings depicting why "Chiang Mai is a Wonderful Place to Live". This resulted in 93 entries from all ages and nationalities, thirteen of which were selected for inclusion in the not-for-profit 40-page 14-month full colour desk calendar. The production contains around 2000 words of original text, highlighting the city's rich history, and relative inaccessibility for centuries, e.g.:  "The railway line did not reach the city until 1921, and the last stretch of paved road was not completed until 1972 ... extraordinary to think that in the previous year the Apollo 15 crew had already driven vehicles on the moon"  It points out that in 2005, Travel+Leisure readers voted Chiang Mai into fifth place in the list of world's best cities, acknowledges that the Asian economic building boom has had a negative impact, but adds:  "High buildings, highways and hypermarkets bow deferentially  to antiquity, and in many cases their clumsy presence only serves to intensify the beauty of the city's historical monuments - ancient chedis or graceful spires gloriously upstaging trendy modern architecture"    This colourful and useful product will carry its promotional message into homes and offices all around the world, and has been welcomed by the Tourism Authority of Thailand Director Northern Office Region 1, Mr. Junnapong Saranak, who in his introductory message in the calendar, remarks that it is unique, and ‘may even become a collector’s item’Students at Benet Academy in Lisle, Illinois, United States raised record amounts of money this year during their Christmas Drive fundraiser. The annual two-week event is aimed at promoting the Christmas spirit in helping the poor and needy.  Coordination of the fundraiser is a joint effort by the faculty and three students organizations—Student Government, National Honor Society (NHS), and Outreach.  Donations from previous years have allowed Outreach to provide food and Christmas gifts to dozens of families during the holiday season.  NHS in the past has provided blankets, winter gear, and toys to local families as well. A semi-formal dance held on Dec. 5 kicked off the Christmas Drive this year. Two weeks of in-school fundraising efforts ensued, including several no-uniform days and Benet's traditional Penny Wars. In that four-day activity, the four grade levels competed against each other to see who can collect the most pennies. Nickels, dimes, and quarters were allowed but had negative value in the class total. The seniors won this contest, allowing them to have a no-uniform day on Dec. 11. Other activities such as bake sales and a beard-growing contest raised money as well.During an all-school assembly on Friday, the last day of the drive, Student Government President Kyle Marinko announced that preliminary calculations put the amount of donations at US$53,392.82, a record for the school. Last year's drive collected approximately US$42,000. A final total has not been officially announced, since Student Government officials continue to count additional donations that have been received.The 2009-2014 World Outlook for 60-milligram Containers of Fromage Frais has won the Diagram Prize, the British award for the year's oddest book title.The Philip M. Parker study about the future of soft cheese beat out the runner-up, Baboon Metaphysics,  for the annual humorous literary award.Other contestants this year included the medical manual Curbside Consultation of the Colon and the hobby handbook Strip and Knit With Style.The Parker book was an 188-page study of the global retail market for fromage frais, which literally means "fresh cheese". Fromage Frais got 32 percent of the 5,034 votes cast by the public for the award. Baboon Metaphysics received 22 percent.Horace Bent, who runs the competition, said he thought one of the more risque titles would win because four of the last seven winners had vulgar titles: High Performance Stiffened Structures, Living with Crazy Buttocks, The Big Book of Lesbian Horse Stories and If You Want Closure in Your Relationship, Start With Your Legs."But I'm thrilled that the public steered clear of smut and bestowed the 'odd title' crown on Prof Parker's worthy winner, and turned the supermarket chiller into the Petri dish of literary innovation," Bent said in a statement.The Diagram Prize was first awarded in 1978, and has been voted on by the public since 2000. Previous winners include People Who Don't Know They're Dead: How They Attach Themselves to Unsuspecting Bystanders and What to Do About It; Bombproof Your Horse; and How to Shit In The Woods: An Environmentally Sound Approach to a Lost Art.Consumption of grilled or baked fish at least once a week can preserve the brain structure of seniors and reduce the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease by three to five times, according to the results of a recent US study.The study, conducted by the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine in Pennsylvania, asked 260 volunteers with an average age of 76, about the frequency of their fish consumption. Ten years later, brain scans were carried out on those being researched. Those who regularly ate fish were found to have better preservation of parts of the brain related to memory. An additional five years later, 31% of those who did not regularly consume fish contracted mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease. Of those who ate fish at least once a week, between three and eight per cent contracted the aforementioned medical conditions. According to The Daily Telegraph, consumption of grilled or baked fish increases the intake of Omega 3 fatty acids, providing a greater amount of blood flow to the brain; therefore prompting a reduction in inflammation and internal gathering of plaque encountered in the lead-up to Alzheimer's disease. Fried fish does not reduce the risk of contracting Alzheimer's disease due to the low amount of Omega 3 it contains.Dr. Cyrus Raji, who took leadership of the study, called it "the first study to establish a direct relationship between fish consumption, brain structure and Alzheimer's risk." Raji concluded that "people who consumed baked or [grilled] fish at least one time per week had better preservation of grey matter volume on MRI in brain areas at risk for Alzheimer's disease."The Alzheimer's Society's research manager, Dr. Anne Corbett, stated: "This moderately sized study adds weight to existing evidence suggesting that eating fish reduces your risk of developing cognitive decline." However, she contested these findings, saying they "did not account for lifestyle factors such as other foods or exercise", which may have affected the overall outcome. Dr. Corbett advised consumers to "eat a healthy diet including fruit and vegetables along with taking regular exercise and giving up smoking" to reduce the risk of contracting dementia.Meanwhile, Alzheimer's Research UK lead researcher, Dr. Simon Ridley, believed the study had not clarified "whether other underlying factors may have contributed to the lower risk in people who eat fish." There is "a clear need for more conclusive research into the effects of dietary fish on our cognitive health," according to Dr. Ridley.The results of the study are to be presented today at the annual meeting of the Radiological Society of North America.Sumo fighter Asashōryū Akinori returned to fighting after being on the injured list for nearly nine months, to win the New Year Grand Sumo Tournament held at Ryōgoku Kokugikan stadium in Tokyo, Japan. In a final bout, the 153kg Asashōryū beat Hakuhō Shō who had earlier defeated him in the regulation rounds. It was a well-matched playoff with both men entering the final round with a 14-1 record. After the win Asashōryū exclaimed "I'm Back". Asashōryū had missed almost nine months of competition due to an elbow injury.Asashōryū whose real name is Dolgorsuren Dagvadorj and hailing from Ulan Bator, Mongolia, started the tournament fourteen days earlier with an opening-day win over komusubi Kisenosato. His tournament win creates a new record with yokozuna becoming only the fourth man to win 23 Emperors Cups. He now is only one win behind Kitanoumi (24), but a long way from both Chiyonofuji (31) and Taiho (32).Speaking about the earlier round loss to Hakuhō, Asashōryū said "the loss helped motivate me. I knew everything was on the line". He put the earlier loss down to a hesitant Tachi-ai - the initial charge at each other. Expectations of a fourth consecutive win were high after beating Asashōryū in the earlier bout. Prior to the final bout Asashōryū practiced his tachai and modified his belt grip to ensure he didn't fall into the same problems he faced in the earlier bout with Hakuhō. The change of strategy worked in the final round, with Asashōryū taking an early advantage with a strong left grip on Hakuho's belt. This neutralized the left hand on Hakuhō, which has been dominant throughout the tournament. Soon after Asashōryū secured a right-hand grip on Hakuhō's front belt and pushed him over the bales, with seemingly little effort to the cheer of the packed stadium. The return of Asashōryū has been a huge boost to Sumo with the association reveling in sellout crowds.Asashōryū's stablemaster, Takasago was pleased that Asashōryū returned to fighting and also pleased with the win in the tournament, but now questions whether he has the passion to continue. He said "Now's he won, he needs to take a good look at himself and make sure he has the desire to do it all again."On Sunday, the Denver Broncos defeated the Carolina Panthers in Super Bowl 50 by a score of 24–10. The game, played at Levi's Stadium in Santa Clara, California in front of 71,088 spectators, marked the Broncos' third Super Bowl victory and their first since 1999. Entering the game, the Panthers had lost only once in the 2015 NFL season, while the Broncos won 12 of their 16 games.The Panthers kicked off to start the game, and the Broncos scored first with Brandon McManus' 34-yard field goal. After both teams exchanged punts, the Broncos scored again when linebacker Von Miller stripped the ball from Cam Newton, forcing him to fumble, and the ball was recovered by Malik Jackson in the endzone to result in a Denver touchdown. In the second quarter, the Panthers scored a touchdown when running back Jonathan Stewart jumped over the goal line. The two teams punted again on their next drives. The second turnover of the game occurred when Bronco Darian Stewart forced Mike Tolbert to fumble, with Danny Trevathan recovering; however, the Broncos failed to capitalize when Peyton Manning was intercepted by Kony Ealy. The half ended with the Broncos leading 13–7. In the second half, the Panthers had a chance to narrow the margin to three points, but kicker Graham Gano's 44-yard field goal attempt hit the goal post's right upright. Afterwards, Denver increased the score with McManus kicking a 30-yard field goal. On the next series, Newton led the Panthers' offense to the Broncos' 28-yard line, but was intercepted by T. J. Ward. Denver and Carolina both subsequently punted. Afterwards, Manning was sacked by Ealy and fumbled; Carolina took advantage with Gano's 39-yard kick to make the score 16–10. Unfortunately for the Panthers, Miller forced Newton to fumble at the Panthers' four-yard line and Ward recovered. With 3:08 left in the game, Denver's C. J. Anderson sealed the game with a two-yard touchdown run, followed by Manning's two-point conversion to Bennie Fowler.Miller ended the game with six tackles, 2.5 sacks and two forced fumbles and was awarded the Super Bowl Most Valuable Player Award. Manning, who is the oldest quarterback to start a Super Bowl at the age of 39 and is rumored to have played his final game in the National Football League, completed 13 of 23 passes for 141 yards with an interception and a lost fumble. The Broncos recorded only 194 yards, the fewest by a Super Bowl winner.The game's festivities featured Lady Gaga performing the national anthem. After the second quarter, Coldplay performed the Super Bowl 50 halftime show with former Super Bowl performers Bruno Mars and Beyoncé. Coldplay opened the show with "Viva la Vida" and "Paradise", followed by a performance of "Uptown Funk" with Mars. Afterwards, Beyoncé performed her new song "Formation" and joined Coldplay and Mars on stage to end the show.In the National Football League, the New Orleans Saints defeated the Indianapolis Colts, 31-17, to win Super Bowl XLIV.Class of 2010 Hall of Famer Emmitt Smith did the coin toss. The Saints won toss and elected to receive. It was the thirteenth straight time that the NFC won the Super Bowl coin toss. The Saints got the ball first inside the 25, and went three and out. The Colts' first play was a first down pass to Dallas Clark. The first penalty comes with 8:36 left in first quarter, a false start on the Colts. Their third 3rd down of the drive failed, and kicker Matt Stover's 38 yard field goal was good, giving the Colts the first score of the game, 3-0.Courtney Roby fumbled the kick return, but the Saints recovered it. Drew Brees threw a complete pass to Reggie Bush on third down for their first 1st down of the game. The Saints only got to midfield, and after nearly being picked off the Saints punted. The punt landed at the four yard line, where the Colts started their next drive. The Colts mixed run and pass plays, including several third down conversions, and made it all the way to the end zone, where Pierre Garcon caught a nineteen-yard pass on third down for the first touchdown of the game, making the score 10-0 Colts. The 96-yard drive tied the longest drive in Super Bowl history. Another kickoff return by the Saints ended inside the 25 as the first quarter ended.The Saints move the ball down inside the Colts’ 30 yard line when, on third down, Dwight Freeney sacked Brees. After the sack on third down, kicker Garrett Hartley kicks a 46 yard field goal making the score Colts 10, Saints 3. The Colts get the ball returned to around the 20 yard line, but went three and out. Bush fair catches the punt inside the 30 yard line. Using mainly passing plays, the Saints moved down the field all the way to the 22 until a reverse play ended up as a seven yard loss. The next play, a pass to Marques Colston, however, was a 27 yard gain down to the three yard line. After the two minute warning, the Saints had 20 plays in the quarter to the Colts' three. They were stopped short on third down. On 4th and goal on the one yard line, the Saints went for it and Pierre Thomas was stopped short after being tackled by Gary Brackett. The Colts get the ball on the one, but are stopped short on 3rd down, and had to punt after going three and out with under a minute left. Bush returned the punt to around midfield. Another field goal by Hartley was good as the score became 10-6 at halftime.After the halftime show featuring The Who, the Colts were to get the ball to start the second half. The Saints attempted an onside kick which, after both teams crowded around the pile, the refs ruled that the Saints got the ball. After moving down the field, a 15-yard touchdown run by Pierre Thomas, thanks to breaking several tackles, gave the Saints a 13-10 lead. The Colts got the ball back on the kickoff return on the 24 yard line. After driving down the field, the Colts finished the drive with a five yard touchdown run by Joseph Addai, giving the Colts the lead, 17-13. The Saints got the ball back and moved across midfield with five minutes left in the third quarter. Several plays later, the Saints kicked another 40+ yard field goal, this one at 47 yards, moving the Saints to within one at 17-16. Hartley became the first kicker to kick three field goals for 40 or more yards in a Super Bowl. The Colts got the ball back around the 11 yard line and began running the ball, bringing the ball to the 29 yard line as time expired, ending the third quarter.As the fourth quarter began, the Colts moved to around midfield and were faced with a 4th and 2. They went for it, and converted on a completion to Reggie Wayne. A second third down conversion failed, and the field goal by Matt Stover was no good, keeping the score at 17-16. The Saints continued utilizing their passing game, moving down inside the 10. After a run by Thomas, Brees completed a two yard pass to Jeremy Shockey for the touchdown. The Saints went for the two point conversion and failed on an incomplete pass by Lance Moore, making the score 22-17 with 5:42 left. The Saints challenged the play, stating he had possession in the end zone, though he did lose control as he rolled in the end zone. The play was overturned and the challenge successful, making the score 24-17 in favor of the Saints.Starting on the 30 yard line, the Colts moved to midfield through the air. A few plays later, Manning threw an interception to Tracy Porter, who returned the ball 74 yards for a touchdown, moving the Saints ahead by two touchdowns, 31-17. With less than three minutes left, the Colts had to reach the end zone twice to keep it tied. A long pass to bring it to the two minute warning was completed to Austin Collie, who nearly fumbled it. The Colts moved to inside the five yard line, but a pass interference penalty led to a ten yard loss. A pass to Addai moved them back to where they were. They were stopped on third down, and turned the ball over on downs after an incomplete pass on fourth down. Brees took a knee to run out the clock, ending the game.In the National Football League, the Baltimore Ravens defeated the San Francisco 49ers, 34–31 to win Super Bowl XLVII on Sunday, despite a power outage at the New Orleans Superdome.Referee Jerome Boger flipped the coin and the Ravens of the AFC won the coin toss and elected to defer till the second half. The 49ers of the NFC started on the 20 yard line and quickly went three and out. The Ravens first play on offense was a pass from quarterback Joe Flacco to Vonta Leach for an 8 yard gain. After working their way down the field the Ravens scored on a Flacco pass to Anquan Boldin. Justin Tucker put in the extra point for the Ravens to take the lead 7–0.The 49ers came back on the next drive and drove down the field for a David Akers 36 yard field goal. Nearing the end of the first quarter the Ravens were pushing towards a touchdown until they were stopped on a 3rd and 13. The next possession for the 49ers ended with a fumble by LaMichael James that was recovered by Arthur Jones for no gain. After going down down the field, the Ravens scored on a Flacco pass to Dennis Pitta. The next possession for the 49ers ended as soon as it started after a Colin Kaepernick interception by Ed Reed. After the play penalties for unnecessary roughness were granted to each team due to an incident on the field.The Ravens worked their way down the field until they hit the 14 yard line, where they set up for a field goal. Tucker took a direct snap and ran towards the first down marker ending up short of the first down ending their drive. The ensuing 49ers drive ended in a 3 and out. The Ravens responded with a 3 play touchdown drive ending with a 56 yard pass to Jacoby Jones from Flacco. This put the Ravens up 21–3 with 1:45 left in the first half. A successful 27 yard field goal by Akers followed shortly after as the score became 21–6 heading into halftime.After the half-time show featuring Beyoncé, the Ravens got the ball to start the second half. Akers kicked it off to Jacoby Jones, Jones stepping out from the end of the end zone returning it for 108 yards, an tie for the longest return in Super Bowl history. This pushed the score up to 28–6.After a punt by the 49ers and the Ravens, the 49ers drove down the field to score with a 31 yard throw to Michael Crabtree for a touchdown. An Akers extra point brought the score to 28–13. The next drive for the Ravens ended in a 3 and out. The 49ers came back 2 plays later with a 6 yard run by Frank Gore. The following Akers extra point made the score 28–20. The next possession for the Raven ended 2 plays in after a Ray Rice fumble that was recovered by Tarell Brown. The next drive almost ended in a missed 39 yard field goal by Akers but was saved due to a running into the kicker penalty by Chykie Brown. After the 5 yards were accessed, Akers lined up and made the 34 yard field goal bringing the score to 28–23.The Ravens responded on their next drive with a 19 yard field goal by Tucker to increase their lead to 31–23. The 49ers responded with a 5 play touchdown drive ending with a Kaepernick 15 yard scramble to close the gap to 31–29 with the extra point to follow. The 49ers attempted a two point conversion but the pass was overthrown resulting in a missed attempt, leaving the score at 31–29 with 9:57 remaining in the 4th quarter. The Ravens took over the ball for a 5 minute 38 second drive that ended in a Tucker 38 yard field goal, making the score 34–29. Trying to finish their rally, the 49ers drove down to the 7 yard line. After a 2 yard rush by James, and 3 incomplete passes by Kaepernick, the Raven took over on downs on the 5 yard line with 1:46 left in the game.After a run by Ray Rice, the 49ers called their last timeout to stop the clock with 1:42 left. A run by Bernard Pierce, and then Leach left the Ravens with a 4th and 7. The Ravens called a timeout to determine their next play. Lining up in punting formation, Koch caught the ball and ran around the end zone to waste time before getting pushed out for a safety by Chris Culliver to make the score 34–31 with 4 seconds left in the game. To end the game Koch punted the ball to Ted Ginn who returned the ball to end the game.Superman returned to theatres for the first time in nearly 20 years, when Superman Returns opened on Wednesday. The film earned $21 million on its first day of showing, making it the eighth biggest box-office draw ever for a Wednesday opening in North America.The film has so far received generally positive reviews from the media. It is directed by Bryan Singer, who also did the first two X-Men films. Superman is played by Brandon Routh, and Lois Lane by Kate Bosworth, with Lex Luthor played by Kevin Spacey. It is the first Superman film since 1987's Superman IV: The Quest for Peace.File:Misza 1980.jpgFor the first time after the fall of the iron curtain Russia will host the Olympic Games – in 2014 the Winter Olympics will take place in Sochi, a Black Sea resort town. The games are considered a matter of national prestige and generate more media attention than the recent changes in Russian government (Russia’s Putin recently installed the new prime-minister, who, incidentally, also became the chair of the Russian Olympic committee.) As Russia takes enormous efforts to prepare for the Olympics and build a modern sport infrastructure from scratch, the Russian public is more concerned with the mascot for the upcoming games. When Moscow hosted the Summer Olympics in the 1980, the mascot for the Moscow Games was Misha the Bear, developed by children’s book illustrator Victor Chizhikov. Misha instantly became a graphic-design hit, especially in the Soviet bloc. Olympic posters were snatched up and t-shirts were fought over. And as Sochi is set to become the new Olympic city, Russians are keen to see the old bear return. There is a long way to the Sochi Olympics, but the Bear is already coming back from retirement. Russia! magazine, an English-language publication distributed in the US and the UK, has commissioned the most prominent designers and artists to do their own renditions of the famed mascot. “The Olympic Bear turns any Russian between the ages of 25 and 50 to quivering jelly. Our artistic compatriots were happy to whip the old bear into shape for 21st century use” – says Ilya Merenzon, the magazine’s publisher. “And the readers’ response was overwhelming. As soon as the new issue arrived at the stores, we constantly get emails requesting the Bear t-shirts. The animal is regaining his popularity”. – adds Merenzon. It has not been decided, however, on the Sochi Games mascot. Another option is Cheburashka, a famous Russian cartoon character with big ears and humble smile. Cheburashka was the mascot for the Russian Olympic team in Turin and is one of the best-selling children’s toys in former USSR countries and, surprisingly, Japan, where it is known as “Chebu”.The highest court in Sweden, the Supreme Court, agreed on Monday to try the case "Ö 849-15" between Bildkonst Upphovsrätt i Sverige (BUS, Visual Arts Copyright Society in Sweden) and Wikimedia Sverige (Wikimedia Sweden). The jurisprudence could result in Freedom of Panorama being effectively overturned in Sweden, requiring websites such as Wikimedia Commons, which is maintained by the Wikimedia Foundation, to delete thousands of images.Not long after Wikimedia Sverige created the website offentligkonst.se to publish images and metadata about artworks placed in public spaces in Sweden, BUS, a pro-copyright lobby, advocated that it constituted infringement on the artists' copyright. The current lawsuit opposes the interpretation of Wikimedia — that artwork permanently installed in public space should be subject to the Freedom of Panorama exception that is in effect in Sweden — to that of BUS  — that is creation (avbilda) of images and videos of an artwork in a public space is allowed, their distribution (återge) remains prohibited.Anna Troberg, an author and former leader of the Swedish Pirate Party which advocates copyright reform, commented on her blog, "In a time when everyone has a high-grade camera in their phone, it is more than a little naive to think one can place one's work in public space without it being photographed and posted online." ((sv))Swedish language: ‍I en tid när alla har en schyst kamera i mobilen, så är man mer än lovligt naiv om man tror att man kan placera sina verk i det offentliga rummet utan att riskera att de avbildas och läggs ut på nätet.Images over which BUS are suing Wikimedia SverigeA survey of over 2000 people has found that the London Clock Tower, containing the famous bell Big Ben, is the most popular landmark in the United Kingdom.Stonehenge was voted second in the poll, which was launched to mark the birthday of Victorian engineer Isambard Kingdom Brunel.No Brunel structures appeared in the list of the top 10. This is despite the fact that the poll was launched to mark the birthday of Brunel.On Friday afternoon in Moore Allen & Innocent's Cirencester, England auction house a suspect "Rembrandt" painting was sold for £2.2 million, after being estimated by many experts at just £1,000 to £1,500. This is the most expensive Rembrandt to ever be sold in a provincial auction house in all England's auction history.Bidding started at £4,500 and quickly galloped upwards, by the time it had reached £1 million bidding was rising in £100,000's. However by the £1.8 million mark had slowed down to increasing by £50,000 a time, by this point the pace had slowed remarkably, all 8 phone bidders had stopped and it was left between two people still in the room. When the hammer went down a round of applause rose up, staff looked stunned to silence and the room quickly emptied with people calling friends to tell of the news. Considering the original owner of the piece had kept it in their family house for generations thinking it nothing but a copy by one of Rembrandt's pupils it was an amazing result. The buyer of the piece has been left anonymous even to the auctions owners however the 9.5 by 6.5 inch painting labeled "The Young Rembrandt as Democrates the Laughing Philosopher" is sure to now be tested for authenticity. If it is a true Rembrandt then the buyer will have a relative bargain as it will likely be worth in the region of £8-10 million.Sweden today celebrates its first national day as a public holiday.At 10 o'clock (CET) the day was officially opened by the Royal family children at the Stockholm Palace. Crown Princess Victoria said that it was a very special day.During the day, several demonstrations are scheduled in Stockholm and the rest of Sweden.June 6 is celebrated in the remembrance of the crowning of Gustav Vasa in 1523. The Gustav Vasa-reference is a somewhat criticized in parts of Sweden that weren't a part of Sweden back then.Since 1983 it's a National day, but it has been an ordinary weekday until 2005. Thus, the Swedes haven't celebrated their National day much at all, compared to e.g. the Norwegians.Sweden's first royal wedding since 1976 took place Saturday when Crown Princess Victoria, 32, married her long-time boyfriend and former personal trainer, Daniel Westling, 36. The ceremony took place at Stockholm Cathedral.Over 1,200 guests, including many rulers, politicians, royals and other dignitaries from across the world, attended the wedding, which cost an estimated 20 million Swedish kronor. Victoria wore a wedding dress with five-metre long train designed by Pär Engsheden. She wore the same crown that her mother, Queen Silvia, wore on her wedding day 34 years previously, also on June 19. Victoria's father, King Carl XVI Gustaf, walked Victoria down the aisle, which was deemed untraditional by many. In Sweden, the bride and groom usually walk down the aisle together, emphasising the country's views on equality. Victoria met with Daniel half-way to the altar, where they exchanged brief kisses, and, to the sounds of the wedding march, made their way to the the silver altar. She was followed by ten bridesmaids. The couple both had tears in their eyes as they said their vows, and apart from fumbling when they exchanged rings, the ceremony went smoothly.Following the ceremony, the couple headed a fast-paced procession through central Stockholm on a horse-drawn carriage, flanked by police and security. Up to 500,000 people are thought to have lined the streets. They then boarded the Vasaorden, the same royal barge Victoria's parents used in their wedding, and traveled through Stockholm's waters, accompanied by flyover of 18 fighter jets near the end of the procession. A wedding banquet followed in the in the Hall of State of the Royal Palace.Controversy has surrounded the engagement and wedding between the Crown Princess and Westling, a "commoner". Victoria met Westling as she was recovering from bulemia in 2002. He owned a chain of gymnasiums and was brought in to help bring Victoria back to full health. Westling was raised in a middle-class family in Ockelbo, in central Sweden. His father managed a social services centre, and his mother worked in a post office. When the relationship was made public, Westling was mocked as an outsider and the king was reportedly horrified at the thought of his daughter marrying a "commoner", even though he did so when he married Silvia. Last year, Westling underwent transplant surgery for a congenital kidney disorder. The Swedish public have been assured that he will be able to have children and that his illness will not be passed on to his offspring.Westling underwent years of training to prepare for his new role in the royal family, including lessons in etiquette, elocution, and multi-lingual small talk; and a makeover that saw his hair being cropped short, and his plain-looking glasses and clothes being replaced by designer-wear.Upon marrying the Crown Princess, Westling took his wife's ducal title and is granted the style "His Royal Highness". He is now known as HRH Prince Daniel, Duke of Västergötland. He also has his own coat-of-arms and monogram. When Victoria assumes the throne and becomes Queen, Daniel will not become King, but assume a supportive role, similar to that of Prince Phillip, the husband of the United Kingdom's Queen Elizabeth II.Swedish-based house music group Swedish House Mafia have announced their intention to disband after their next tour. A statement from the group said "the tour we are about to go on will be our last".The group, which consists of DJs Axwell, Steve Angello and Sebastian Ingrosso, formed in 2008, with its members initially DJing in a pizza shop in the Swedish capital in the early 2000s. In a statement on their website, the group expressed their appreciation to their supporters. "We want to thank every single one of you that came with us on this journey," the group statement reads. "We came, we raved, we loved."Swedish House Mafia appeared at Radio 1's Hackney Weekend at the weekend. The group also announced future tour dates, including Ushuaia on the Spanish island of Ibiza from July 4 to August 29, the Friends Arena in Sweden on November 24 and the National Bowl in the British town of Milton Keynes on July 14, the latter of which the page says will be the group's final night in the United Kingdom. "The final leg of this journey will be announced in August," the statement reads.Last week, Ingrosso told Rolling Stone magazine of his interest in having Beatles member Paul McCartney collaborate with Swedish House Mafia, describing The Beatles' music as "kind of melancholic to sad and happy combined", calling it "just amazing". Ingrosso believed "what the Beatles have done is what we do today. [It] doesn't matter that we do dance music". Below is an image gallery of the members of Swedish House Mafia:A 21-year-old Swedish man killed himself and broadcast it over the internet via his webcam feed Monday, after posting to a message board that he had swallowed some painkillers and was going to hang himself.At 11:51 a.m. Central European Summer Time (0951 UTC), Marcus Jannes, a student from  Järna, Stockholm, posted to the Mental Health Problems forum of Sweden's Flashback message boards using the newly-registered username "LurifaxFlux", stating that he was going to hang himself, adding that he had already swallowed 100mg of dexofen and 1500mg of paracetamol. He said that he had set up a webcam to record the event, and would post details later of a FTP server for people to watch.People responded to his post almost immediately. Some offered messages of hope, such as, "How bad can it be? When everything is at its worst, it can only get better", and "Think of poor people, mutilated people, people who are lame or blind. Living with a disability is hard. They can not change their lives! But you still have the ability to alter yours!" Others tried to keep him online by talking to him empathetically: "Is there anything that can make you change your mind?", "Tell me about yourself."However, other users posted messages saying they didn't believe him, wishing him luck with his attempt, and calling him an attention whore and a troll. They also goaded him by saying, "you won't dare, you are too cowardly", and offering advice on the best way to hang himself: "I recommend ... you do it from a height that you can jump off so you are guaranteed to break your neck."In a later post, Jannes said that he had been feeling suicidal for about six months, but was too scared to actually attempt anything until he tried to strangle himself with his own hands. In response to questions, he stated that he was using a network cable to strangle himself because he didn't have any rope, but he was worried that the cable would not be strong enough to take his weight. He also told them that he had Asperger syndrome and High-functioning autism, and was emotionally vulnerable and lacked normal social skills. He admitted to feeling lonely, and alluded to experiencing problems at school, but admitted that he had a good upbringing and had a rather good life. At around the same time, he also updated his Facebook status to say life was "just too difficult", and that he was going to kill himself.In a press release on September 8 from the Swedish Ministry of Education, Research and Culture it was announced that new television broadcasting licenses for the Swedish digital terrestrial television network was to be given and that the Radio and Television Authority (RTVV) had been given the task to handle the applications. All digital television licenses will cease by the end of 2005 and the companies must apply for a renewal if they want to continue broadcasting in 2006 and 2007.Minister Leif Pagrotsky says in the press release that he is "taking an initiative towards a broader offer and more free channels". He doesn't give any clue on how this will be done in the press release, however. In an interview in Dagens Media, his press secretary Thomas Johansson says that new applicants most likely must offer free-to-air channels if they want a licence. Johansson says that there is space for at least two more channels in the network.The RTVV shall leave a suggestion of what channels will get new or continued licenses on November 21, 2005. As of September 8 TV4 AB, Dagens Industri, Sportexpressen and Eurosport SA had sent their applications for new or continued licenses.Currently, very few of the 33 channels in the network have chosen to go free-to-air, in contrast to the United Kingdom, Germany and Finland where most channels are free-to-air.A local Swiss government has shown some bare cheek and has taken action, after hordes of German naked hikers rambling across the Swiss alps au naturel, caused indignation amongst locals.Authorities in Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden have warned that starting from February 9, the government will impose hefty fines of 200 Swiss Francs (£122, €135) on naturists found walking or hiking in the nude without clothes in the picturesque mountains because of a recent influx of visiting German nudists. The new ordinance is expected to be passed this spring. If it is approved by the local parliament on February 9 it should be effective on April 26. The Swiss canton aims to stop spread of 'indecent practice' by minimally-clad German climbers.The problem started with a group of "boot-only hikers" who were stopped by the police in the Alpine region last autumn.  They had wandered there regularly, proudly marching through nature with bare bums, and had also advertised what they thought was a naked paradise on the internet.  But it was all too much for the Swiss.A nude rambler dressed in nothing more than a rucksack and walking boots in the eastern Appenzell region was arrested and detained in the canton, but authorities were unable to file lawsuit because the act was not punished by law or ordinance at the time."We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts," Melchior Looser, the canton’s justice and police minister, said. “Ultimately, in the summer lots of kids stay in our mountains,” he added. In the guidelines imposed, arrested offenders who cannot pay the fine, will face legal action. The new enabling ordinance has, however, been met with protests by nude hikers. "We simply try to tune into nature. It's the most harmless pursuit possible," said Dietmar, age 58, a German lawyer. German tabloid Bild Zeitung has editorially attacked Swiss intolerance and even suggested nudist alternatives worldwide, after hinting a Swiss tourism boycott. Local authorities of Harz mountain range in central Germany have also announced the openness to any visitor of an “official naked walking route” in nature's outdoors. Freikörperkultur ("FKK"), or "free body culture", is a popular pastime in Germany. It is a  German movement which endorses a naturistic approach to sports and community living. Behind that is the joy of the experience of nature or also on being nude itself, without direct relationship to sexuality. The followers of this culture are called traditional naturists, FKK'ler, or nudists. The naked ramblers have hoped it doesn't lead to another naturist-clothed 'war', like the one at a beach between German and Polish holidaymakers in 2008. Naturism has roots traced from the start of the 20th century. "Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature", naked hiker website nacktwandern.de stated.But Markus Dörig, a spokesman for Appenzell Innerrhoden canton has defended the law, explaining that the “public nuisance” was a foreign import. “We have been receiving many complaints. The local people are upset and we in the government share their concern. How would one feel if one was to go walking in nature and suddenly came across a group of naked people? They are definitely not people from the area, and I think many of them come from Germany,” he noted. “We are a small and orderly community and such things are simply out of place here. Perhaps in vast mountain areas naked people would not be much of a problem but here they simply stick out,” Dörig added. "I can understand that we all have to live in this world together," said Barbara Foley, International Naturist Foundation member of the central committee. "But I would certainly enjoy doing the hike in the nude and I wouldn't want to be deprived of it. It's nice to feel the sun on your skin. Maybe they should designate a couple of trails and people would know they might come across naturists there," she added.Appenzell Innerrhoden (Appenzell Inner Rhodes) is the smallest canton of Switzerland by population and the second smallest by area, Basel-City having less area. The population of the canton was 15,471 as of 2007, of which 1,510 (or 9.76%) were foreigners. The canton in the north east of Switzerland has an area is 173 km². It was divided in 1597 for religious reasons from the former canton Appenzell, with Appenzell Ausserrhoden being the other half.Appenzell is the capital of this canton. The constitution was established in 1872. Most of the canton is pastoral, this despite being mountainous. Cattle breeding and dairy farming are the main agricultural activities: Appenzeller cheese is widely available throughout Switzerland. Due to the split of Appenzell along religious lines, the population (as of 2000) is nearly all Roman Catholic (81%), with a small Protestant minority (10%). The town, however is far from liberalism: the canton granted women the right of suffrage only in 1990 under pressure from the Federal Supreme Court of Switzerland and international human rights groups. The Alpine village of Appenzell Innerrhoden, being known for its beautiful landscape, has recently been declared a "naked rambler paradise" by a German mountaineering website, which was created by a lobby group of hikers.The World Heritage Committee of the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organisation has today announced in Christchurch, New Zealand that the Sydney Opera House has been added to the World Heritage List of culturally significant sites.It is the third time that a bid has been made to include the Opera House in the list, after failing to receive enough votes in 1981 and 1996. Roni Amelan, UNESCO spokesman said the decision to list the Opera House was unanimous. "There was consensus that it was a truly outstanding, iconic building that was a defining moment in 20 century architecture," said Mr Amelan.The committee described the Opera House as daring and influential. "It is a daring and visionary experiment that has had an enduring influence on the emergent architecture of the late 20th-century," claimed the committee. "The building is a great artistic monument and an icon."The Sydney Opera House becomes the youngest building to be listed on the register, being built in October 1973. It joins other landmarks such as the Taj Mahal, Statue of Liberty and the Egyptian Pyramids. The Opera House becomes only the second Australian building on the list, joining the Melbourne Royal Exhibition Building and Carlton Gardens, which were added in 2004.As a result of the listing, a 2.5 kilometre buffer will be enforced around the Opera House to protect views to and from the building. If the World Heritage values of the site are breached, the site can be placed on an endangered list and removed from the register.Australian Prime Minister, John Howard said the Opera House is treasured throughout the world. "The Opera House, and its setting at Bennelong Point on Sydney Harbour, is an iconic and treasured place, not just for Australians but also internationally," he said. An excited NSW Premier, Morris Iemma informed state parliament of the UNESCO's decision.Jorn Utzon, the architect of the Opera House gave a statement from his home in Denmark expressing the honour of having one of his buildings listed on the register."World Heritage listing gives the building ... a completely new value," Mr Utzon said. "It is a gift to the city of Sydney." Mr Utzon said it was the vision of those who worked on the construction of the Opera House for it to be Sydney's greatest landmark.In a ceremony attended by archaeologists and restoration specialists, authorities re-opened Syria's National Museum of Damascus this Sunday, after six years of military conflict.  Representatives of the government represented this as a milestone in the return to normalcy after recent victories in Syria's civil war.The museum displays include archaeological exhibits dating back to prehistoric times, cloth from the ancient city of Palmyra, and live demonstrations of restoration of pieces damaged during the war.The Syrian Minister of Culture, Mohamed al-Ahmad, said in a speech, "The opening of the museum is a genuine message that Syria is still here and her heritage, would not be affected by terrorism [...] Today, Damascus has recovered."The war in Syria, which has claimed reportedly over 350,000 lives, began in 2011, and the museum was closed in 2012, though the gardens remained open to the public.  Authorities managed to remove and store reportedly about 300,000 cultural artifacts.  Various sites were destroyed in the conflict.  Palmyra, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, was taken over by Islamic State and subjected to deliberate damage.  According to Mahmoud Hammoud, a Syrian official in charge of antiquities and museums, several hundred thousand artifacts were also smuggled out of the country, while, as of the opening, about 9,000 artifacts had been recovered or restored.This comes as representatives from Russia, France, Germany and Turkey met in Istanbul to discuss the Syrian conflict, amid United Nations statement that the Syrian government is delaying the writing of a new constitution for the country.In the "2008 Taipei City New Year Countdown Party", several local and foreign media focused on the fireworks of the Taipei 101 due to the notability of the skyscraper world-wide.After some criticism from government executives because some wordmarks by sponsors appeared on the Taipei 101, the Taipei Financial Center (owner of Taipei 101) decided to set up 12,000 sparklers 500 meters tall from the 34th floor to the top of the tower on the 101st floor.Even though the ingredients of the sparklers were made in China, Vice President of Taipei 101 Michael Liu commented that the idea issues on quality of production and trends of industry.According to TV channel TVBS, the light of "Love Taiwan" wordmarks accidentally appeared before the celebration while President of the Republic of China Shui-bian Chen addressed in the "2008 Dream More Kaohsiung" New Year Celebration in Kaohsiung City. After the Taipei City Government became aware of this accident and remonstrated against current Chairman of Taipei 101 Diana Chen, the Taipei 101 re-lighted the wordmark after successfully celebrating New Year's.After this incident, Michael Liu said to media: "We [Taipei 101] earlier lighted (the wordmarks) in a rush after we received a call from the Executive Yuan. Originally, we didn't consider to do this."Current Mayor of Taipei Lung-pin Hau regretted the incident and hoped the Executive Yuan could notify the government in the future of the incident. The Minister of the Government Information Office Jhy-wey Hsieh complained in the City's Government of the sponsorships. The 2008 Taipei City New Year Countdown Party was apparently "faded" with political factor.At 2 am, September 25, UTC time, the jury of Wikimania 2007 City Contest announced that Taipei has been chosen as the host city of Wikimania 2007."Taipei had the winning combination of a dedicated and experienced bidding team, a great venue with centralized accommodation and community areas, and strong sponsorship opportunities. Taipei also provides the opportunity to focus attention on the growing Asian language projects and the international aspect of the Wikimedia Foundation, as well as learning about other free knowledge efforts and projects in the region," the jury said."This was a very difficult decision.  Every one of the shortlisted bids this year were outstanding," the jury continues. The other 3 bidding cities are Turin (Italy), Alexandria (Egypt) and London (United Kingdom).Wikimania is a conference for users of the wiki projects operated by the Wikimedia Foundation. Researchers and speakers presented studies and experiments on Wikipedia and other projects operated by the Wikimedia Foundation, on wiki culture and technology, and on the world of free knowledge. The first conference was held in Frankfurt, Germany from August 4 to 8 in 2005; the second ran from August 4 to 6 in 2006 in Cambridge, Massachusetts in the United States. The third run will be held in Chien Tan Overseas Youth Activity Center, Taipei, Taiwan from August 3 to 5 in 2007.In Taiwan, more than 2,000 people participated in the "Ten Thousand People for BIKE" bicycle parade challenge, organized by Volvic Taiwan and Body Marketing Co., Ltd. to break the previous "Largest Parade of Bicycles" record, which was set at 641 bicycles during a 2006 record attempt in Netherlands.VIPs invited by the organizers included the current Chinese Nationalist Party legislator Chih-hsiung Huang, the Director of the Department of Public Sports of Sports Affairs Council, Executive Yuan (R.O.C., Taiwan) Tai-lin Peng, and Guinness World Records referee Stuart Claxton. They witnessed the new record, and Deputy Commissioner of Sports Affairs Council, Executive Yuan (R.O.C., Taiwan) Hwang-lang Tsai led out for the starting of this event.The record-breaking parade crossed five riverside parks (Dajia Section, Yingfeng Section, Guanshan Section, Rainbow Section, and Meiti Section) over an estimated 13.7 kilometres (3.2 km to set the new record, and 10.5 km for free riding).The previous record was broken when the 642nd rider passed the recording gate near 8:47 a.m.. A 36-year-old engineer from Taoyuan County named Fang-tien Lin was the 642nd lucky rider. In the end, this event created a new record with 1901 riders riding in a great bicycle parade within 1 hour and 8 minutes."2008 Taipei In Style", a fashion show in textile industry in Taiwan, was confirmed to be scheduled on July 10 to 13 at Taipei Show (TWTC Hall 2). Before the main show, the Taiwan Textile Foundation, show organizer, chose 2008 FUSE Textile Week (FUSE 2008) at Da Jia Jenn Lann Temple (in Chinese: 大甲鎮瀾宮) in Taichung County and 2008 China International Clothings and Accessories Fair (CHIC 2008) at International Exhibition Center of Beijing in China as its promotional stages.At the CHIC 2008, the Taiwan Textile Foundation chose March 30 as the "'Taipei In Style' Day" and invited several fashion designers in Taiwan to showcase their new designs on trend clothings and purses.By the way of 2008 FUSE Textile Week, some fashion designers showcased their designs with the other styles in conjunction with traditional culture, energy saving, and modern technology echoed with main theme of "2008 Taichung County Mazu International Festival" (in Chinese: 2008年臺中縣大甲媽祖國際觀光文化節). By the way, Taiwan Textile Foundation also elected 17 fashion designer in the qualification of fashion showcase final stage at "2008 Taipei In Style".Translated from report by: Zhang Yongtai (Voice of America/ Taipei)In order to remember the passing away of Taiwan's former leader, the opposition parties of the Pan Blue Camp used the Tomb Sweeping Day holiday to visit Chiang’s tomb and pay respects. However the Democratic Progressive Party government did not hold any similar activities.The chairs of Taiwan’s opposition parties, the Kuomintang (KMT), New Party (NP) and People First Party (PFP) used the Tomb Sweeping Day break to lead trips to the Taoyuan county Tzuhu and Touliao mausoleums (resting spots of Chiang Kai-shek and his son Chiang Ching-kuo respectably.) Because the bodies of Chiang Kai-shek and Chiang Ching-kuo are planned to be moved to Wutzushan military cemetery in Taipei County in August of this year, the opportunity to visit the tombs of the two former leaders is almost gone.Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) pays no visits to Chiang’s tombDuring the rule of the Kuomintang government, visiting the tombs was a major event, presidents lead the chiefs of the five branches of the government in a memorial at the tombs. Though following Taiwan's gradual shift towards democracy the visits to the tombs have become more and more simple and forlorn. After the Kuomintang lost control of the government the event even became an activity only for the Pan Blues; the DPP government not only didn’t visit the tombs, they didn’t even hold similar ceremonies.Lien Chan: “would be pleased to visit the mainland”Because KMT Vice Chairman Chiang Pin-kun’s recent visit to mainland China caused such mixed reactions in the political arena, the question of when KMT Chair Lien Chan would visit the Chinese mainland was also a hot topic. After paying his respects Lien expressed that he was honored by the invitation to visit the mainland, but a time frame for the visit is still awaiting further confirmation: "I would be pleased to accept such of visit, and go on a 'journey of peace, the time (of the trip) should be in the near future, as for how to determine the time for certain, it will require contact from both sides to decide."James Soong: don’t rushAs for the People First Party chair James Soong, who in the month of February held talks with President Chen Shui-bian in the so-called “Chen-Soong meeting”, appeared conservative in answering questions about himself visiting China: “Which party wants to rush to go first, the PFP wont do like others did and try to go against the policy, today we hope to place policy before politics.”Soong also said that the relationship between Taiwan and mainland China is very complex, and the KMT and DPP both can’t solve the problem within fifty years or five years. The PFP hopes that both sides of the Taiwan Strait can benefit; he said he believes that a relationship between the two sides is not a one-sided wish, and hopes it can take place in an atmosphere in which both sides desire not to encroach on the dignity of Taiwan. Soong also stated that he will soon be able to meet with Chen Shui-bian and Lien Chan to discuss the Taiwan Strait situation.John Chiang: tombs should become a “tomb containing clothing without the body,”Also worth mentioning is the discussion about what will be done with the mausoleums of the two Chiangs once their bodies are moved to Wutzushan military cemetery. John Chiang, Chiang Ching-kuo’s illegitimate son, said that he hopes the Taoyuan County government will be able to maintain the original spirit and cultural spirit of the mausoleums. He also suggested that once the bodies are moved, the tombs become a “tomb containing clothing without the body,” and hopes the places will remain open to the public so they can remember the ways of their predecessors.Hoardings of Sivaji: The Boss have begun to appear around Chennai (capital of Tamil Nadu). This marks the nearing of the release date, which is currently at May 26. The fans have also began their countdown to the films release. The last Rajinikanth film was Chandramuhki back in 2005, which is still running in a few cinemas in Tamil Nadu and has broken many records. A few of the records it has broken were:First Tamil film to film in Turkey.Ran for more days than Haridas (previously owned the longest running film title).Earning the most that a Tamil film has ever earned.Fans are eagerly awaiting the release. Ticket prices for the first day are expected to exceed Rs. 300.Due to Sivaji: The Boss releasing soon there have been no films set to be released in May in Kollywood. Most films who had first decided to release in May have avoided doing so due to the release of Rajinikanth's film.Rajinikanth's latest film Sivaji: The Boss may be delayed in Kerala due to opposition to a ruling by the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce. The Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce ruled that the film should be released in more theaters than the theaters which it is set to be released in (48 theater owners have bought the rights) so it can have greater exposure to the public, but the theater owners who have the rights to show the film disagree. They do not wish to lose money due to more theater owners cashing in on Sivaji: The Boss.In Kerala 38000 CDs of the Sivaji: The Boss audio were sold on the first day, which is a first for a non-Malayalam film audio to sell. Sayanora who originates from Kerala is a lead singer in the song Athiradee, the song also features the voice of A. R. Rahman who is the music director for the film and also had made himself a name from creating the musical Bombay Dreams. The Sivaji: The Boss songs have been top of the charts in Tamil Nadu since they were released on April 2, 2007.The much awaited film of Tamil Nadu is nearing release. After several postponements from April 12 to May 8 then to May 17 and finally postponed to the release date of May 26. The last three dates are all add up to the magic number of Shankar's, 8. This release date was confirmed by Ayngaran International (the international distributor) and AVM (the producer). The reason for the latest postponing of the film was due to the background score of the film being incomplete, A. R. Rahman (music director) is currently working on this.This will be Rajinikanth's 100th Tamil language film. The film has big names Shankar (director of the 8 Filmfare Award winning Anniyan), AVM (the largest producer of films in Tamil Nadu), A. R. Rahman (word recognized due to his work in the Bombay Dreams musical) and the "Superstar" of Tamil cinema Rajinikanth.Pyramid is expecting over Rs. 120 million in the Nizam area of Andra Pradesh from the films ticket sales. So far it has been estimated that over Rs. 1 billion has been invested in the film.AVM have now officially announced the recent postponing of Sivaji: The Boss to May 31, one day after saying it would be on May 26. Ayngaran have for the first time put on their website a date for the release which is also May 31. This is said to be the last postponing of the film, but due to the multiple previous postponings there is speculation about this.When speaking to employee's in Ayngaran there seems to be a rumour that it will be released before the May 31 in the UK, this could be a possible preview show of the film.Acclaimed Hollywood director of "Pulp Fiction" and "Kill Bill," Quentin Tarantino was forced to wade in Manila's flood waters and  use a pedicab in order to get to Malacañang Palace to receive an award from Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo on Wednesday.The pedicab is a three-wheeled vehicle with a side-car driven by human pedal power, common mode of transportation in the Philippines used for short distance travel or during floods in the country.Tarantino, the guest of honour for the 9th Cinemanila International Film Festival, was about to receive a Lifetime Achievement Award when an elevated southwest monsoon  dumped rain in the Philippine capital, Manila, Wednesday morning.The director was already late for the award ceremony due to traffic caused by the rain in Metro Manila when he was forced to leave his limousine and take the pedicab to the Presidential palace, some 1.5 kilometers away.Tarantino was wearing the Barong Tagalog (the Filipino formal wear), black pants and black shoes when he took the pedicab. While he was being transported in the barely covered pedicab to the Presidential Palace, another downpour occurred. Tarantino arrived at the palace wet from the downpour and had to change into black jogging pants.The director was being honored for his contributions in cinema. He was quoted as saying, during his week-long visit to the Philippines, that he admires Asian cinema and will need to study it more.Tarantino is currently writing a book on Asian cinema and will feature Filipino cinema.Finnish symphonic rock/symphonic power metal soloist Tarja Turunen has played the first dates on her debut tour as a solo artist after losing her position as the lead vocalist for Nightwish.The tour is in support of her new album My Winter Storm. Tarja has met with some early success as a solo artist, with the album certified gold in Finland - signifying sales in excess of 15,000 copies - and the first single I Walk Alone entering the German charts at number 16.The first show of the tour was in Berlin, Germany. That was followed by a concert in Budapest, Hungary. She is to return to Germany tomorrow, to perform I Walk Alone at the final fight of German boxing champion Regina Halmich.Said a statement by Turunen on the opening gig: "The first show in Berlin was just great!! Everybody in the band, including myself, was really nervous. It is normal that in the first show some things are not really working yet. We were ready to have a total catastrophe in the middle of the concert, but luckily it didn't happen! I sensed that the audience was really listening everything carefully and I got the feeling that they enjoyed the show. That makes me very happy and delighted. There was a good spirit. It was funny to see the entire band, including two drum sets, in a small stage! But our crew managed to make us fit there… I am sure that things are getting better from now on. As for the first show, Berlin was amazing beginning for us. Thanks so much for all the nice and wonderful persons in the audience. I felt your support and love. You made a bit difficult for me to continue singing at some points during the concert. Just to bring down the myth that German people is cold[sic]. I think you were great and very, very warm."Finnish symphonic rocker Tarja Turunen has revealed that the working title for her new album is What Lies Beneath. The album follows on from 2007's My Winter Storm."With My Winter Storm, I chose the name of the album in the early stages and that helped me to create the concept for the album. With the new album, I decided to do it the same way, so I searched for an inspiring title and all the songs are one way or another related to it," Tarja explained.My Winter Storm was Tarja's first album after she left the Finnish symphonic power metal band Nightwish, which she fronted. On the day of the album's release - November 14, 2007 - it was certified gold in Finland for sales in excess of 15,000 copies. On January 2, the album was rereleased in a 2-CD format with 32 tracks, including a guest appearence by Doro Pesch and an unreleased song recorded in China that features the Beijing Philharmonic and the Qingdao Symphony Orchestra.Regarding her next effort, she said "In the last months I've been writing a lot of music for my new album. Songwriting is always an amazing learning experience, and it has been a pleasure to discuss music with different people."The album process is still going on and I have more songs that are in the working. It is sounding very promising. The songs are absolutely more mature, wild, and emotional and they sound more me, if I can say so."The album is tentatively scheduled for release in September, but Tarja has commented that this is not set in stone. "The biggest difference in preparing this new album is that I will be taking the time that I need until the songs are in a shape that I am happy with," she said "No matter how long it takes. I want it to be perfect for me. No hurry; no pressure."Tarja Turunen, a Finnish symphonic rock artist best known for being the former frontwoman of symphonic power metal band Nightwish, has been scheduled to appear at the 25th anniversary concert of heavy metal vocalist Doro Pesch. Pesh, like Turunen, first gained fame fronting a band, in her case Warlock.Doro and Tarja are now also confirmed to be planning to record duets with each other. Doro will feature on Tarja's next solo album, while Tarja will sing a role in Doro's upcoming 25th-anniversary album.Tarja announced the planned duets at the same time as confirming her appearance at the December 13th concert in Düsseldorf, Germany's ISS Dome, where she says she will perform "a new song and an old song". At the same time, Norwegian symphonic metal band Leaves' Eyes have also been confirmed for the event.When making the announcements Tarja also said "there will be a co-operation between me and Doro in the future" although it was unclear if this refers to a more permanent arrangement or simply that which has been announced now.Tartan Day in the United States is being kicked off with big celebrations in New York, including parades and marching bands.  The Grand Marshall of this year's parade was Randall Wallace, a Scottish-American and author of the screenplay for the movie Braveheart.Week-long festivities were to include the annual "Tunes of Glory" parades, pipe bands from 3 countries, an exhibition called "Scottish Village", and a fashion show on Wednesday called "Dressed to Kilt".  One of Scotland's national treasures, William Wallace's sword, left Scotland for the first time in 700 years and was flown to New York for their Tartan Week celebrations of 2005.Tartan Day was designated as a holiday by the US Senate, "National Tartan Day", in 1998.  Support for the holiday first gathered momentum in Canada through the efforts of Ms. Jean Watson in the 1980s.  The purpose of the holiday is to remember the contribution of Scots both at home and abroad, raise the profile of Scotland, and encourage tourism and trade.  The date of April 6 was chosen because the "Declaration of Arbroath, the Scottish Declaration of Independence, was signed on April 6, 1320 and the American Declaration of Independence was modelled on that inspirational document."  In Australia and New Zealand, Tartan Day is celebrated on July 1, the anniversary of the repeal of the Act of Proscription in 1782.President George W. Bush in 2002 wrote a letter to the Scotsman newspaper supporting the annual celebrations, writing, "As you take part in customs that honour the role of Scottish Americans in our history, I join you in celebrating the contributions of these important Americans.  This observance renews our appreciation for the diversity and remarkable heritage that unites us all."  In the US House of Representatives on March 9 last month, seven years after the Senate approval, a voice vote was unanimously taken to declare "National Tartan Day" a national holiday.  The number of Americans with Scottish or Scotch-Irish ancestry according to the 2000 US Census is about 9.2  million, comprising 3.2% of the US population.Taylor Hicks the 29-year-old Birmingham, Alabama, native was crowned the fifth season winner of American Idol. Taylor received the majority of the 63.4 million votes cast after Tuesday night's two-hour performance show.The finale was broadcast on Fox and CTV, from the Kodak Theatre in Hollywood.Hicks got a recording contract with the RCA Music Group as his prize.His first single is called "Do I Make You Proud" written by Tracy Ackerman, Andrew Watkins and Paul Wilson.Hicks is expected to release an album in the upcoming months.On Monday, US singer Taylor Swift won the 58th Grammy Awards Album of the Year for her album 1989, and her video song Bad Blood won the Grammy Award for the Best Music Video.This was the second time Swift has won the award for the Album of the Year. She previously won for her album Fearless in 2010. Swift collected three Grammys at this year's awards ceremony: Best Music Video, Best Pop Vocal Album and Album of the Year.With this Album of the Year win, she became the first woman to win two Grammy Awards in the category. At the beginning of the award ceremony, Swift performed her song Out of the Woods live.The other nominees for the Album of The Year were Alabama Shakes' Sound & Color, Kendrick Lamar's To Pimp a Butterfly, Chris Stapleton's Traveller, and The Weeknd's Beauty Behind the Madness. Canadian singer The Weeknd won two awards for Best Urban Contemporary Album and Best R&B Performance.While receiving her award, Swift left a message for younger women saying "there will be people along the way who will try to undercut your success or take credit for your accomplishments [...] don’t let those people sidetrack you, someday when you get where you're going you'll look around and you'll know that it was you and the people who love you who put you there, and that will be the greatest feeling in the world." Kendrick Lamar, who featured in the Bad Blood video, won five awards including for Bad Blood. Swift's friend Ed Sheeran won the Song of the Year for Thinking Out Loud ahead of her song Blank Space from the album 1989.The "grievance" against a Teamsters Union Local 385 person named "Michael Fedelem", "was resolved prior to Step 3." It is presumed, but not known, if this website mention relates to the employee who played Tigger at Walt Disney World, as he is mentioned on the "Character Team" page of the website.Teamsters representative Donna Lyne Dalton had previously stated that the teen had been "agitating" the actor in costume, according to Feledem, cutting off the air supply to the costume. The actor swatted his arms and claimed to have no intention to hit the boy due to the lack of peripheral vision.On Sunday, video broke internationally of Fedelem as Tigger, hitting teen Jerry Monaco Jr. in the head. The New Hampshire tourist and his father both claim the hit was unprovoked."Nuh, no provokin' at all, ya know, it was all out of the blue." Junior told FOX News.Monaco Sr. commented, "At first I'm upset with my son. I'm like, Jerry don't, ya'know ... but then I review it, I mean it's pretty clear, for no reason, he just clocked him in the face."A full version of the video was released on YouTube yesterday. In the footage before Tigger's punch, Monaco Sr. taunts Tigger, saying "Aw, too much? Heh... I was on your head."Teamsters Union has spoken out in defense of Michael J. Fedelem, a Disney employee who played Tigger at the Disney-MGM Studios theme park.The international news media jumped on Fedelem Sunday, after he hit a teenage guest in the face.Teamsters representative Donna Lyne Dalton says that the teen had been "agitating" the actor in costume. Dalton says the teen grabbed the back of the costume, effectively cutting off air. Because of his headpiece's limited peripheral vision, Fedelem was unaware he was swatting anyone, when he moved his arm.On Sunday, video broke internationally of Fedelem as Tigger, hitting teen Jerry Monaco Jr. in the head. The New Hampshire tourist and his father both claim the hit was unprovoked."Nuh, no provokin' at all, ya know, it was all out of the blue." Junior told FOX News.Monaco Sr. commented, "At first I'm upset with my son. I'm like, Jerry don't, ya'know ... but then I review it, I mean it's pretty clear, for no reason, he just clocked him in the face."A full version of the video was released on YouTube yesterday. In the footage before Tigger's punch, Monaco Sr. taunts Tigger, saying "Aw, too much? Heh... I was on your head."The 28th Taipei Audio Video Fair (TAVF), organized by the Taipei Electrical Commercial Association (TECA), featured not only some innovative domestic market exhibition ideas, but also offered a pavilion entitled the "Global Audio and Video History Corridor", to showcase the audio and video industry's world-wide history. Wikinews reporter Rico Shen attended the fair, which, this year, highlighted TECA's 60th anniversary.At the Taipei Grand Hotel (Yuanshan Hall), some participants (exhibitors) rented soundproof guest rooms, which offered the best quality and performance for audio experiences. With high-definition television becoming a popular topic, some pre-market or marketed wide-screen HDTVs featuring 1080p were exhibited at the Taipei World Trade Center (TWTC Hall).The TAVF show runs from November 8 to 12, closing at 8:00 p.m. (Taipei Time) each night except November 12, which has a closing time of 6 p.m. To assist visitors from The Grand Hotel, TWTC and TECA hired the Metropolitan Transport Corporation for an inter-hall shuttle service. The peak number of visitors are expected to be on the weekend after permitting minors under 120 cm to enter the showground.Ted Koppel announced he plans to quit as host of the 'Nightline' television program after his contract runs out December 4, 2005. Executives at ABC are considering canceling the Nightline program after his departure or possibly changing the show to a live, hour-long format.Nightline has fallen behind in rankings compared with programs such as "Meet the Press" and "Face the Nation". Network news in general is losing ground in recent years to cable news, talk shows and the Internet. Television anchormen who have left in the past several months include Tom Brokaw of NBC and Dan Rather of CBS. The only other major television anchorman of the past few decades who remains in his chair is Peter Jennings, who has been on ABC's "World News Tonight" since 1982.Koppel began working for ABC in 1963, serving as a foreign correspondent for the network. He started working for the Nightline program in March 1980.  The program, started in 1979, was created to provide nightly news updates on the Iran hostage crisis.  Koppel is 65 years old and has a daughter named Andrea Koppel, who is the CNN correspondent to the Department of State. He says he has no plans to retire, but he is looking into other projects. Koppel received numerous awards for journalism, including 41 Emmy awards.This weekend's 65th Golden Globe Awards ceremonies in Los Angeles are the latest victim of the ongoing labour strike by American entertainment writers. On Sunday, the awards will be presented during a news conference at the Hilton hotel in Beverly Hills, California instead of the traditional annual televised event. The broadcast will include interview clips of the celebrities.The Golden Globe Awards are conducted by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) and honour television and motion picture achievements. They are a prelude to next month's Academy Awards whose ceremony and telecast are also in jeopardy if the strike continues. HFPA President Jorge Camara expressed disappointment that a full Golden Globe awards presentation would not proceed this year.Members of the Writers Guild of America walked off the job in November. The HFPA unsuccessfully attempted to negotiate a deal with the union to allow writers to work on the Golden Globe event.Introduced by Alan Rosenberg, current President of the Screen Actors Guild, Grey's Anatomy star Sandra Oh and Bobby, Happy Feet actor Elijah Wood announced nominees for "the Actors".The award ballots will be mailed to voters tomorrow. The Guild's entire active membership is allowed to vote, before the January 26 deadline. It is the only award voted on solely by actors, and the only award given solely to actors.The ceremonies are held two days later, on January 28. TNT and TBS will both air the program in the United States, at 8 p.m. ET/PT, 7 p.m. CT, and 6 p.m. MT. In Canada, CTV is expected to show the special.A total of eleven funny men and women got "Outstanding Performance by a Actor in a Comedy Series" nominations.For male actors, the list reads Alec Baldwin as Jack Donaghy in 30 Rock, Steve Carell as Michael Scott in The Office, Jason Lee as Earl Hickey in My Name is Earl, Jeremy Piven as Ari Gold in Entourage, and Tony Shalhoub as Adrian Monk in Monk.The females given a nod were America Ferrera as Betty Suarez in Ugly Betty, Felicity Huffman as Lynette in Desperate Housewives, Julia Louis-Dreyfus as Christine Campbell in The New Adventures of Old Christine, Megan Mullally as Karen Walker in Will & Grace, Mary-Louise Parker as Nancy Botwin in Weeds, and Jaime Pressly as Joy in My Name is Earl.Thespians also got their due salutes."Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series" nominees are James Gandolfini as Tony Soprano in The Sopranos, Michael C. Hall as Dexter Morgan in Dexter, Hugh Laurie as Dr. Gregory House in House, James Spader as Alan Shore in Boston Legal, and Kiefer Sutherland as Jack Bauer                                                                           in 24.Nominations for "Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series" go to Patricia Arquette as Allison Dubois in Medium, Edie Falco as Carmela Soprano in The Sopranos, Mariska Hargitay as Det. Olivia Benson in Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Kyra Sedgwick as Deputy Chief Brenda Johnson in The Closer, and Chandra Wilson as Dr. Miranda Bailey in Grey's Anatomy.Two nominations in the "Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series" went to each ABC and HBO. The first got acknowledgement for Grey's Anatomy and Boston Legal, while the series on the latter were The Sopranos and Deadwood. The FOX network's series 24 also received a nomination.Up for "Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series" are The Office on NBC, ABC's Ugly Betty and Desperate Housewives, and two cable series, Showtime's Weeds and HBO series Entourage.Many of the series have writing and performances that could qualify them for either Drama or Comedy series, such as Boston Legal and Desperate Housewives.The Sopranos was the only series to get three nominations; telefilm Broken Trail also received that many.As with many television-related award shows over the last decade, HBO lead the pack in nominations, with 10. ABC and NBC received 8 each.An appeal for information on a 25-year-old murder case has been broadcast on national television on the BBC One show Crimewatch. Seventeen-year-old Melanie Road was murdered in the early hours of June 9, 1984 in Bath. The team responsible for investigating the murder is the Avon and Somerset Major Crime Review Team. Road's brother Adrian took part in the appeal saying "Over the last 25 years it's been a living nightmare to know someone out there killed my sister. This person took Melanie from me". Detective Chief Inspector Mike Carter said "If there was someone acting suspiciously, at that time, we can check them against our DNA sample". Melanie Road was both murdered and sexually assaulted as she walked home after leaving a night club. She was stabbed yards from her house on St Stephens Court in Bath. Her body was discovered on the Sunday morning by a milkman. 90 arrests have been made in connection with the murder but no one has been convicted.Crimewatch was first broadcast on June 7, 1984 and has contributed to several convictions on unsolved murders, rapes and other crimes. Original anchor Nick Ross left the show after 23 years, in 2007. The show has featured cases such as the murder of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, Sarah Payne and former Crimewatch presenter Jill Dando which has been unsolved since Barry George was released.Don Herbert, known to many as his stage name "Mr. Wizard", died Tuesday night. Mr. Wizard, who is famous for introducing science to children for over 50 years, died of bone cancer at the age of 89 at his Bell Canyon home in Los Angeles.Mr. Wizard was the host of the program Watch Mr. Wizard in the 1950s and 60s, and later Mr. Wizard's World in the 80s. His children-themed shows gave viewers a glimpse into the science world by performing experiments with common household objects. Herbert said in an interview on Voice of America's Our World, a science and technology program, that "Using everyday equipment made it something that children should not be afraid of. If you used scientific equipment that's strange to the child, it's not going to help him or her understand. So we used everyday equipment. And especially because we used everyday equipment in new and unusual ways, which helped." Generations of young scientists tuned in each week to learn about scientific principles and follow along with Mr. Wizard by conducting the same experiments at home.Herbert, who was born in Waconia, Minnesota, attended the University of Wisconsin in La Crosse. After graduating with degrees in English and general science, he joined the US Army Air Corps, and served in World War II as a bomber pilot in Europe. Post-war, he worked as an actor before becoming the host of Watch Mr. Wizard in 1951. The program ran for nearly 15 years on NBC and CBC.In 1983, the show's format was revived with Mr. Wizard's World, which aired on the Nickelodeon cable network for 7 years. He also appeared on the talk shows of David Letterman (including the premiere episode of Late Night with David Letterman), Johnny Carson, and Regis Philbin, as well as staring as a panelist on the game show Hollywood Squares 5 times in 1986.Herbert is survived by his wife and six children and step-children.Leonidas Montes, president of the executive board of Chilean television channel Televisión Nacional de Chile (TVN) said on Tuesday in a statement to the Chilean Journalists Association that he acknowledged the channel had "commited an error" when it used videos of 'hooded delinquents' (encapuchados) to present reports on the on-going student protests in the country, on TVN's news programme 24 Horas. The statement was released the day after more than 60 university students attempted to interrupt the broadcasting of 24 Horas; the students accused the "channel of all Chileans" to "not giving enough coverage to the student protests, and for supporting the Government in education-related news."Online newspaper Otra Prensa! reported on July 13 that TVN had, at least three times, used videos of a 'hooded delinquent' to present reports on the student protests: on June 14, 26; and July 11. The journalists presenting the reports were, chronologically, Amaro Gómez-Pablos, Gonzalo Ramírez, and Consuelo Saavedra. "The picture simply is not part of the news, it isn't necessary to use ink to note the evident political purpose it's following," Otra Prensa!'s editor Luis Cuello wrote on July 13. The online newspaper also cited the 17th Article of the Code of Ethics of the Chilean Journalists Association: "The graphic material and the headlines should also be concordant with the texts provided, so the reader, viewer or listener isn't inducted into confusion or deception." The online newspaper denounced the use of the videos before the Chilean Journalists Association on July 14; vice-president of the association, Giacomo Marasso, said on Twitter that TVN was "evidently trying to distort information;" while Marcelo Castillo, president of the association told Cambio 21 that "[TVN] is trying to reduce the students protests only to what is doing a group of 'hooded delinquents'. TVN is the channel of all the Chileans, it just cannot give this kind of messages." Additionally, that same day, Javiera Montecinos, student of the University of Concepción denounced Televisión Nacional before the Consejo Nacional de Televisión (National Council of Television) for the misuse of images against the student protests; the organization accepted the denouncement.Aside, Mayor of Santiago, Pablo Zalaquett linked the student protests with the increase of the delinquency in the city. "It is related to the occupations of schools, high schools and universities, and the mass marches," adding that it was "conflictive" that there were "so many youngsters without classes [...] A youngster in the street can be tempted to do whatever thing."The Chilean Journalists Association said on Tuesday that the Code of Ethics "explicitly sanctions this kind of manipulation [of the information]," and that members of the association are going to present the case to the Ethics Tribunal of the same organization. "We appreciate the attitude of the board of TVN, but we will pay attention to the fulfillment of basic ethical standards for the exercise of the profession," Marcelo Castillo said.April Fools' Day pranks harmlessly pervaded worldwide again this year.  Media outlets and internet sites have joined family, office workers, and friends to provide a wide variety of practical jokes.  Ireland, France, and the United States celebrate April Fools all day, whereas a few countries celebrate jokes only until noon such as the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and South Africa.  Car and Driver claimed that GM and Chrysler were ordered out of NASCAR by the White House by the end of 2009 in order to receive any more government loans.  There are press releases about this short-lived prank which received controversial feedback.The Swiss Tourism Board has announced that volunteers were desperately needed, The Association of Mountain Cleaners "makes sure that our holiday guests can always enjoy perfect mountains. Using brooms, brushes, water and muscle power, they clean the rocks of any bird droppings." This year Gmail produced a new autopilot feature for April 1, 2009 which can read your email and automatically respond to every message.BMW released its new Magnetic Tow Technology which allows your BMW to magnetically attach to the vehicle ahead of you. This enhanced technology allows the driver to remove their foot from the gas pedal and turn off the motor.The Guardian proposed its move to Twitter, which would allow the newspaper to fit its article content into 140 character messages or “tweets”. Included in this venture was the archiving of past events reported by The Guardian, such as, "1927 OMG first successful transatlantic air flight wow, pretty cool! Boring day otherwise *sigh*"Google's technological break through for April Fool's Day was CADIE, (Cognitive Autoheuristic Distributed-Intelligence Entity). By extracting internet search patterns combined with Brain Search, a part of CADIE technology, Google can now search your thoughts and memories.Wikipedia even fooled Fox News who claimed that "every item on the home page of the user-generated site Wikipedia is fake.  The featured Wikipedia article regaled the "Museum of Bad Art" in Boston."  However, each item on the main page was based on reality — even news articles such as NASA reports a shower of diamonds over the Republic of Sudan, which was based on a meteorite which passed over Sudan whose fragments did reveal diamonds upon discovery.The Conficker Internet worm had been in the news warning of a worst case scenario when computers worldwide would be affected by the virus.  Even the chief security adviser for Microsoft, Ed Gibson, didn't want to make any predictions about what would happen.  Experts just knew that it was set to go off on April 1.  Several anomalous happenings were attributed to Conficker including Leroy "Mac" MacElrie who claimed to be the programmer of the Conficker worm and turned himself in to police.Hotels.com ran an advertisement offering hotel room bookings on the moon which would be offered on European websites starting at £800 a night.Qualcomm ingeniously revealed a new wireless networking technology called wireless convergence. Making use of the flight patterns of pigeons. They then use innovative solutions to converge the birds with wolves to protect the internal improvements.Media outlets were not the only ones pulling pranks.  Gaming websites across the internet Blizzard, Joystiq, and affiliates posted reviews and announcements of games with tongue in cheek.  YouTube offered viewers a unique April Fool's experience as videos were offered upside down.  In Ireland, U2 fans received a U2opia concert on a shopping centre roof top concert rather than the real thing.A cube of ice, weighing about ten tons (about 9000 kg) and measuring 80 inches (2m) per side, is melting in Seattle, Washington's Occidental Park. The temporary art installation, set up yesterday morning, "showcases the stages of the natural water cycle as the ice shifts from opaque to translucent", the artists said.The project is part of the Seattle Design Festival, and was designed by Olson Kundig Architects' Clay Anderson, Noah Conlay, Jarri Hasnain, Gregory Nakata, and Mark Olthoff. Crews began assembling blocks yesterday  morning and had stacked all 64 blocks in place by 8:00 am. It is not certain how long the 64 blocks of ice that make up the cube will take to melt, and discovering how the process unfolds is part of the intent. Olson Kundig contacted University of Washington meteorologist Cliff Mass to try to estimate the time it would take to melt, which Mass called "not a trivial calculation". He said the variables included how much sun warms the block, in turn dependent on cloud cover; condensation on the block's surface, thus variables like humidity, temperature, and wind; and heat conduction, both from the ground and from the surrounding air. The installation inspired photographers at The Seattle Times, and under the hashtag #ok_icecube at Instagram and Twitter.Terry Knutsen, a man who achieved some notoriety in the 1960s with the novelty song Curse of the Hearse, was seriously injured in a collision late Wednesday evening, according to sources close to the singer. Mr. Knutsen, 70, routinely billed himself under the stage name Terry Teene and some sources indicate he may have recorded as many as 300 songs. Yesterday morning, local media reports indicated that his condition was listed as "critical", but a source close to Mr. Knutsen described his condition yesterday morning as "grave".File:Dad terry teen fan.JPGFile:Clownzo.JPGReports indicate that Mr. Knutsen struck a tow truck while he rode his bicycle along Highway 110 along the outskirts of Tyler, Texas on Wednesday evening. A passerby describes seeing "...a smashed up bicycle covered in...plastic bags and...a yellow raincoat..." lying at the scene of the accident. Mr. Knutsen has performed for many years throughout Texas as a professional clown. He made a brief (uncredited) appearance many years ago on one episode of the hit television show In Living Color. Sources indicate he also had minor roles in various films.Teräsbetoni means "steel-reinforced concrete", and is also the name of a Finnish heavy metal band formed in 2002. Their music, which centres on an honourable warrior lifestyle or on metal itself, quickly became popular in 2003 on the Internet, resulting in a petition by fans being sent to several record labels demanding a recording deal. In late 2004 the band signed to Warner Music Finland, and the following year debut single Taivas lyö tulta rose to number one in the Finnish charts, and debut album Metallitotuus hit number two and went platinum, and has now sold about 47,000 copies.The band, who sing exclusively in Finnish, have just released their third album, Myrskyntuoja. The lead single on this album is Missä miehet ratsastaa, which Teräsbetoni decided to enter in the Finnish selections for the 2008 edition of the Eurovision Song Contest, where it was selected to go on to the semi-final in Belgrade, Serbia as Finland's representative this year. Although Finland has seen limited success in the contest, their only victory was with a comparable group. In 2006 hard rock band Lordi - whose monster costumes and pyrotechnic displays are famed - achieved a record 292 points in the final with Hard Rock Hallelujah.Teräsbetoni's frontman, vocalist and bass guitarist Jarkko Ahola's fame extends beyond the band he heads. He also features in Finnish symphonic power metal cover supergroup Northern Kings, alongside Marco Hietala of Nightwish and Tarot, Tony Kakko of Sonata Arctica and Juha-Pekka Leppäluoto of Charon. Wikinews was able to conduct an exclusive interview with Jarkko Ahola to discuss these various achievements. This interview is now published below for the first time.Myrskyntuoja, the third album from Finnish heavy metal band Teräsbetoni, has topped the charts in the Nordic country. The album was produced by the famed Hiili Hiilesmaa, whose past credits include HIM, Apocalyptica, The 69 Eyes and Lordi.Both of Teräsbetoni's previous albums reached number two, making this their first number one album.The lead single from the album, Missä Miehet Ratsastaa, is Finland's entry at the 2008 instalment of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. The song reached number two on the Finnish singles chart and is currently number four.Missä Miehet Ratsastaa will be performed at the Eurovision semi-final on May 20. If enough other nations vote for the entry, it will proceed to the final in Belgrade, Serbia.Actor John Travolta testified in an extortion case in The Bahamas on Tuesday, and admitted in court that his late son was autistic. Travolta belongs to the controversial Church of Scientology, an organization which opposes psychiatry and does not recognize autism as an affliction. Prior to the testimony, Travolta had only publicly acknowledged that his son suffered from Kawasaki syndrome.Travolta's son Jett died in January 2009 at the age of 16 after experiencing a seizure. The ongoing extortion trial focuses on charges that attorney and Bahamian senator Pleasant Bridgewater and her client paramedic Tarrino Lightbourne requested US$25 million from Travolta in exchange for not revealing a document which stated Travolta did not wish for his son to be taken to a hospital. Travolta's son was transported to Rand Memorial hospital."My son was autistic and suffered from seizure disorder. Every five to ten days he suffered seizures which lasted 45 seconds to a minute," said Travolta in his court testimony. He said that after experiencing a seizure, his son would typically sleep for a period of 12 hours. The judge in the case instructed Travolta that he could be called back to testify later in the trial.Critics have asserted that Travolta and his wife Kelly Preston, also a Scientologist, had not previously discussed their son's autism in public due to their ties to Scientology. The Times reported that Travolta's court admission of his son's autism places him in contradiction with the views of Scientology. According to The Daily Telegraph, Travolta arrived at the courthouse in The Bahamas escorted by several Scientologists.Former Scientology minister, Bruce Hines, spoke to CBS News about the organization's beliefs regarding illness. "They believe that the only reason a person can get ill is because they are in some way connected to a suppressive person and a suppressive person is someone who is opposed to Scientology," said Hines. He also commented on why John Travolta and Kelly Preston would have kept their son's affliction hidden from the public: "It's really a big deal, so how the Travoltas dealt with this--a chronic illness in the family, I'm not sure how they would have been able to explain it."MSNBC reported that Scientology International representative Tommy Davis denied that his organization took a position on the medical disease. "The Church of Scientology has no position on autism," said Davis. "As with any medical condition, the Church believes that these matters are best diagnosed and treated by a medical doctor. Scientologists can and do then also seek spiritual assistance."The Citizens Commission On Human Rights (CCHR), a human rights group founded by the Church of Scientology in 1969, submitted a comment on autism to a bill before the United States Senate in 2008. The bill was SB 1563: Pervasive developmental disorders. The comment by CCHR was submitted under the heading: "Arguments in opposition", and stated "The Citizens Commission on Human Rights believes that there is no known medical treatment for autism except off-label drugs." Wikinews reported on views of representatives of Scientology on psychiatry in February 2009. Individuals affiliated with the Church of Scientology appeared on a program called The No Drug Show, and blamed both the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States and the attack on Pearl Harbor on psychiatrists. David Figueroa, a spokesperson for CCHR, erroneously claimed that Osama bin Laden's second in command, Ayman al-Zawahiri is a psychiatrist, as did former CCHR-International president Dennis H. Clarke. Zawahiri is actually a surgeon; he is not a psychiatrist or a psychologist.The issue of Scientology's stance on psychiatry was brought to the forefront in the media during a 2005 appearance by Tom Cruise on NBC's program Today with Matt Lauer. At the time Cruise told Lauer he was critical of psychiatry and the use of antidepressants. In a December 2008 appearance on the Today show on a promotional tour for his film Valkyrie, Cruise told Lauer he wanted to apologize and felt he appeared arrogant in his 2005 interview.News of police response to a boy's digital clock in Texas last week has inspired a global social movement in support of the youth. Ahmed Mohamed, a 14-year-old boy from Irving, Texas, was arrested at his school by police after he brought a digital clock he had made to school. After news of the police response was reported, Mohamed received support online ranging from US President Barack Obama to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg. Yesterday Mohamed received VIP attention at Google headquarters in California at the Google Science Fair — and tommorow he plans to meet international dignitaries at the United Nations headquarters in New York.Mohamed brought the digital clock he made to school on September 14, and a teacher mistakenly thought it resembled a bomb. Police arrested and questioned the student. Images of the boy wearing a NASA T-shirt and handcuffed by the police were quickly posted and reposted online.The Deseret News observed that the hashtag on Twitter, #IStandWithAhmed, had become an international phenomenon. The Straits Times noted what began as individual messages to Mohamed had grown into a "support movement". American academic and professor Marc Lamont Hill commented, "Hoping that the #istandwithahmed movement translates into a substantive national conversation on race, punishment, and incarceration."The Twitter attention led to outreach from Google and Mohamed was invited to their Google Science Fair. Mohamed was a VIP guest at the Google Science Fair this weekend, and was able to meet finalists at the event held at Google's headquarters located in Mountain View, California. Co-founder of Google, Sergey Brin, personally met with Mohamed during his visit to Google.On Wednesday, Mohamed and his father are to travel to the United Nations. His father Mohamed El-Hassan Mohamed said he was taking his entire family to the U.N. headquarters in New York, because international dignitaries wanted to meet with his son and express their support.Psychology major at University of Texas Arlington Amneh Jafari heard of the incident and wanted to issue her support to Mohamed. She chose the hastag #IStandWithAhmed and posted to Twitter. Jafari said she felt Mohamed had been subject to Islamophobia and her hashtag created greater awareness about this issue. The hashtag took on a life of its own, and was used in messages on Twitter over one million times by Thursday night.US President Barack Obama tweeted using his @POTUS account: "Cool clock, Ahmed. Want to bring it to the White House? We should inspire more kids like you to like science. It's what makes America great."Twitter gave Mohamed the option to come to their company for an internship. Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg tweeted to Mohamed and said the boy was welcome to come and tour the company.Executive director of the Dallas chapter of the Council on American-Islamic Relations Alia Salem said Mohamed wishes to use his newfound fame and attention to spotlight social causes including the treatment of Muslims in the United States.University of Texas Arlington Muslim Student Association president Sehar Memon said the large amount of positive feedback for Mohamed had helped make his situation much better. Memon also said she believed the social movement in reaction to Mohamed helped improve Muslim/non-Muslim.Both the Irving Independent School District and the Irving Police Department have asserted that the boy's religion and name were not a factor in the manner in which they approached the situation.Sakorn Yang-keawsot, a legendary puppet master, died Monday as he was being taken to the hospital. He had recently received treatment for lung problems. He was 85.Sakorn, considered by many in Thailand to be a national treasure, was the only one to carry on the Khru Gae tradition of puppetry.Born in 1922, the son of two puppeteers, Sakorn gained popularity after World War II and earned the English nickname, Joe Louis.He was credited with reviving the art in 1985, when he and his children started the Joe Louis Theatre. There they performed mystical plays and traditional Asian epics withmetre-high papier-mâché puppets.Sakorn is survived by nine children. Funeral rites which start today will continue through May 28. They take place at Wat Bangpai in Bang Bua Thong in Nonthaburi Province.File:Durion-interdit-malaysia.jpgIn southeast Asia, durian is known as the "king of fruits," but with its pungent odor, the large, spike-husked fruit receives less-than-royal treatment in many quarters.A Thai scientist thinks he has found the key to more widespread acceptance of durian, by creating odorless varieties of the fruit. After 20 years of cross-breeding, researcher Songpol Somsri has come up with a durian "that smells as inoffensive as a banana," according to an article today by The Guardian."I've got friends from Australia, Europe and Japan who just won't eat durian because they can't stand the smell," Songpol was quoted as saying. "But I'm sure producing those with a mild smell will help us find new markets."Despite their popularity, the fruits are banned from the subway system in Singapore. In Bangkok, taxi drivers will often balk at a passenger with durian. The region's airlines won't allow them to be brought onboard. Across southeast Asia, a sign that denotes a finer hotel is a placard in the lobby with a red circle and cross through a silhouette of a durian.Cultivated across all of southeast Asia, the fruit measures about 12 inches (30 centimeters) long and 6 inches (15 centimeters) in diameter, and weighs around 2 to 7 pounds (1 to 3 kilograms). The fruits are green on the outside, and covered with a thick, spike-covered husk. In Malay, the name durian literally means "thorny fruit".Inside is a yellow, custard-like flesh that has been described as nutty and sweet, perhaps like a fine French cheese. But because of the smell, which can be overpowering, durian is an acquired taste.The Guardian quoted a travel writer who described the smell like "pigshit, turpentine and onions, garnished with a gym sock."Devotees of the "king of fruits" say a major part of the experience of eating the smelly fruit is the aroma, or fragrance, if you will."To anyone who doesn't like durian, it smells like a bunch of dead cats," Bob Halliday, a food writer in Bangkok was quoted as saying by The New York Times in April. "But as you get to appreciate durian, the smell is not offensive at all. It's attractive. It makes you drool like a mastiff."Swanzea Banchee, manager of Sunshine Fruit, a major Thai exporter of durian, told National Public Radio (NPR) last month that he thinks an odorless variety of durian would help increase orders from overseas. But, he said he'd never eat one, adding that if a durian doesn't smell, then it isn't really a durian."I don't think it's possible to make a durian that doesn't smell," orchardist Somchai Tadchang was quoted as saying by The Times. "Anyway, durians actually smell good," he told The Times. "Only rotten durians stink."But Dr. Songpol, senior agricultural scientist for the Thai government's Department of Agriculture, has put a lot of time and effort into creating his varieties of odorless durian, called Chanthaburi No. 1 and Chanthaburi No. 2. They were developed at the department's Horticultural Research Institute in Chanthaburi Province, in eastern Thailand, near the border with Cambodia, about 200 miles (320 kilometers) from Bangkok. Growing up on a durian farm, he has studied them all his life, he said.The research farm has several thousand durian trees, and Songpol has spent about 20 years crossing more than 90 different varieties to produce Chantaburi No. 1. It started with only one tree, planted 18 years ago, and which produces about a dozen fruit annually, Songpol told NPR.Songpol has also been working on another variety of durian, without either the smell or the spikes. It's called Chanthaburi No. 3, he said.The Thai government is keen to produce and export odor- and spike-free durian, announcing a plan back in April to distribute saplings of the three new varieties to farmers. It's expected that the odorless durians will hit the market in around three years.A small desk calendar, which started as a voluntary school project, has risen to unexpected heights of fame.His Excellency Dr. Suvit Yodmani, Thai Minister for Tourism and Sports paid tribute to the young creators of the "Chiang Mai Charity Calendar" by travelling up from Bangkok to preside at the official launch of this initiative, which is designed to increase visitor arrivals to the Northern Thai city, and raise funds through calendar sales for childrens' charities in the region. The event was held on October 5th 2007 at the recently opened Sofitel Riverside Hotel Chiang Mai, and attended by over 100 senior travel trade, airline media, consular and city hall representatives. In an evening which included a presentation of how the calendar was conceived and created plus solo violin and classical guitar performances by students, Dr Suvit gave a talk about the future of the tourism industry in Chiang Mai, highlighting the importance of environmental issues, and close co-operation between the government and private sectors. He cited the Charity Calendar as an example of what could be achieved even by schoolchildren in terms of tourism promotion, and gave it his wholehearted support.The evening concluded with the Minister presenting certificates of appreciation to the artists who painted the colourful images of the city which were chosen to be included in the non-profit calendar and representing why "Chiang Mai is a Wonderful Place to Live"Offered as an unusual gift, the desk calendar is likely to carry its promotional message — in text and childrens' paintings — into homes and offices in countries around the world.YouTube, a popular video hosting website, has been banned by the government of Thailand after at least 3 videos insulting Thailand's King, Bhumibol Adulyadej were uploaded to the site.The first video which was "removed by user," has turned up again, uploaded from a different user than the first posting, claiming to be from Iceland. The second video was uploaded as recently as April 5 and the third has been on YouTube since March 12.The government states that the ban on YouTube will continue. Google, who owns YouTube, refused to remove the video saying videos of the current United States president George W. Bush are worse than those of Thailand's King.  "That's [the removal of the video] not enough. We want the picture removed too before we unblock it," said Thailand's Minister of Information and Technology, Sitthichai Pookaiyaudom who also said that he sent a request to Google to have the image removed from the site, but Google has not yet responded."It's hard to tell how they [Google] will respond. In some countries, it's a norm to have their leaders mocked, but this is different. With the king, it is very offensive to the Thai public. YouTube said it thought there was not enough reason to remove the clip after viewing the video and making its judgement on the content," added Pookaiyaudom.Google later replied to the King stating that the video will not be removed, but that YouTube has a plan to only allow certain videos to be viewed without blocking the whole site."He said pulling out those clips would not be an effective way to stop the damage, since users could re-post them again. He said a more effective way would be to block certain pages not to be seen in Thailand. It will be a few days before we lift the ban on the entire site," added Pookaiyaudom.The text of the first video, scrolled across the screen, stated "This video would give up to 15 years prison in Thailand, because their leaders are evil (sic) and hate free speech. A Swiss man, Oliver Rudolf Jufer, 57, was sentenced to 10 years in prison for spray-painting graffiti over Thailand's revered King. Fuck Thailand leaders and the ape king."The 44 second-long video, posted April 4, 2007 shows images of King Adulyadej drawn over and made to look like a monkey or an ape and a "juxtaposed" image with feet on top of King Adulyadej, pointing just under his nose. In Thailand, feet are seen as a dirty side of humans and people there think of feet as being offensive and rude. Playing in the background of the video was the music of the national anthem of Thailand.In the second video, posted on March 12, 2007, shows still images of leaders from different nations around the world, King Adulyadej is seen with black painted over his face, imitating thick dark eyebrows and a mustache. In the third video, the feet are again placed just under the King's nose when halfway through the film, his image is vandalized by showing his eyed "bugged out of his head" and the Wat Kaow Roop Chang Temple in Songkhla in between his eyes.The first video was viewed nearly 70,000 times before the original user removed it from YouTube.LONDON – The big-budget Hollywood movie The Aviator and the low-budget Brit flick Vera Drake have scooped the main prizes at the 2005 Orange BAFTA Film Awards. Four gongs went to The Aviator with the top ones being Best Film and Cate Blanchett for Best Supporting Actress. Vera Drake got three gongs with Best Director, Best Actress & Costume Design. Jamie Foxx got Best Actor with Ray and Clive Owen got Best Supporting Actor with Closer.The older brother of Christopher Nolan, director of the films The Dark Knight and Memento, has been arrested in connection with an alleged murder in Central America.Matthew Francis Nolan, 40, was arrested last month and is awaiting extradition to Costa Rica to face murder and kidnapping charges. He is currently being held in prison without bond.Nolan is accused of killing Robert C. Cohen, a Florida businessman, in 2005 while trying to recover $7 million Cohen owed to another Florida man.Costa Rican authorities said Nolan posed as a businessman and arranged a meeting with Cohen at a hotel.Nolan and an accomplice, Douglas Mejia, then allegedly kidnapped Cohen and tried to extort the money from Cohen's family, then killed Cohen when the plan failed.Mejia has already been convicted of murder and kidnapping and is currently in prison.Chicago authorities had been investigating Nolan for an alleged $700,000 bank fraud, which was unrelated to the murder, according to media reports. FBI agents arrested Nolan in February while he was leaving a Chicago bankruptcy court hearing.The Chicago Sun-Times first reported the story on Friday.Matthew Nolan's brothers, Christopher and screenwriter Jonathan Nolan, are the filmmaking duo behind the films Memento, The Dark Knight and The Prestige.The final episode of popular US talk show The Oprah Winfrey Show was recorded yesterday, with audience members saying the host gave an emotional, yet simple farewell.In contrast with the 25-year running afternoon show's usual proceedings, there were no special guests or surprise gifts. Instead, Winfrey sat solo on her stage in Chicago and used the time to thank her fans and to talk about her life and the importance of striving for one's goals.Tammy Brownlee, 31, who was in the audience, said "she talked about her upbringing, and that it’s a miracle that she became the person she became".  "It was just her the whole time, a recap of what she believed in, what we’ve given her as viewers and what she hopes she has given us," said Nancy Evankoe, 60, who was also present.Although Winfrey was tearful in her farewell, she made it clear to her fans she will be back. "This is not going to be goodbye. This is the closing of one chapter and the opening of a new one."Winfrey leaves her show to focus on her new cable channel OWN.The King's Speech, a historical drama film starring Colin Firth, won the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival's People's Choice Award. The film was directed by Tom Hooper, and is to be released officially on November 26, according to the Internet Movie Database."I am so proud that people responded to this film in a positive way," said Hooper, who was not in Toronto at the time of the ceremony. The film "tells the story of the man who became King [of England] George VI," sources say. "So many people were talking about that film during the festival," said Piers Handling, director of the film festival.Previous winners of the award include La vita è bella (1997), Wo hu cang long (2000) and Slumdog Millionaire (2008).Despite the hopes of many University of Wisconsin-Madison (UW) students, The Onion was not named after their student center.  "People always ask questions about where the name The Onion came from," said President Sean Mills in an interview with David Shankbone, "and when I recently asked Tim Keck, who was one of the founders, he told me the name—I’ve never heard this story about ‘see you at the un-yun’—he said it was literally that his Uncle said he should call it The Onion when he saw him and Chris Johnson eating an onion sandwich.  They had literally just cut up the onion and put it on bread."  According to Editorial Manager Chet Clem, their food budget was so low when they started the paper that they were down to white bread and onions.Long before The Daily Show and The Colbert Report, Heck and Johnson envisioned a publication that would parody the news—and news reporting—when they were students at UW in 1988.  Since its inception, The Onion has become a veritable news parody empire, with a print edition, a website that drew 5,000,000 unique visitors in the month of October, personal ads, a 24 hour news network, podcasts, and a recently launched world atlas called Our Dumb World.  Al Gore and General Tommy Franks casually rattle off their favorite headlines (Gore's was when The Onion reported he and Tipper were having the best sex of their lives after his 2000 Electoral College defeat).  Many of their writers have gone on to wield great influence on Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert's news parody shows.  And we are sorry to break the news to all you amateur headline writers: your submissions do not even get read.Below is David Shankbone's interview with Chet Clem and Sean Mills about the news empire that has become The Onion."We're only two days in and we're already fucking tired," says Sune Rose Wagner to David Shankbone as he walks into the dressing room at the Bowery Ballroom.  Wagner and Sharin Foo comprise the Raveonettes, a group made for "nostalgists who long for Everly Brothers 45's and diner jukeboxes, the Raveonettes tweak "American Graffiti"-era rock with fuzzed-out surf-guitar riffs," said The New York Times.  They recently left Columbia and signed with Fierce Panda because they felt constrained by their Columbia contract:  "The major label system sometimes doesn't allow for outside "help" to get involved, meaning that we don't get to choose who we wanna work with. That can be a pretty terrible thing and bad things will surely come of it," said the band on their MySpace site.   Originally from Denmark, both musicians live in the United States now.Their first EP, Chain Gang of Love, was a critical and commercial success.  "Few albums provoke such amazing imagery," said the BBC.  "Pretty in Black is virtually fuzz-free," said Rolling Stone of their next album, "highlighting the exquisite detail in the Raveonettes' gift for pastiche: the prowling, garage-surf guitars in Love in a Trashcan; the ghost dance of Red Tan, wrapped in Phil Spector-style sleigh bells."  Of their current album, Lust Lust Lust, set to be released on November 5th (although Amazon says March 4, 2008), Sune told NME that, "There are a lot of songs that deal with desire, restlessness and the tough choices you have to make sometimes."  Fans can hear some of the new material at MySpace.com/TheRaveonettes.Below is Wikinews reporter David Shankbone's interview with Sune Rose Wagner and Sharin Foo.Wikinews has learned that a new entity calling itself The Regime used keylogging to gain an administrator password to 711chan.org, a site popular with the open vigilante group "Anonymous" that has recently been attacking Scientology online.At 9:57 p.m. (eastern time) the site 711chan.org, was replaced, allegedly by The Regime by the title Church of Scientology along with a statement on the home page stating "This website has been deleted due to copyright claims from the Church of Scientology." A search performed using Google, on 711chan has returned the number one result of the apparent hack. All that remains of 711chan.org is an apparent message to the members of the site to "run" and "hide.""711chan is full of fucking fail for siding with Gaia. I'm out of here, faggots. Enjoy your Gaia," said the message, which currently is only available in a cached version.At 1:45 a.m. on January 27, the site was replaced with "And now a message from our sponsors. YOU SUCK711chan will be back online shortly. I love you guys for helping me out. <3 plasma," acknowledging the possibility 711chan was back in control of their site. The site's name has been changed to "Church of 711."The Regime's first attack went along with a message posted to 711chan's website (quoted below) saying that "This site has not been blessed by The Regime and is deemed lame", believing Anonymous to be self-proclaimed hackers (although this title was primarily used by the media). It also refers to Anonymous' attempt to bring down the Church of Scientology (named 'Operation Chanology'), saying that "chanology is lame, scientology is lame". It thereafter declared that the message board where Anonymous had been discussing Operation Chanology had been removed. Minutes later, 711chan stopped responding to queries.The legitimate administrators of 711chan regained control after only three minutes, but it took nearly six hours to restore the site with recent additions missing. However, The Regime took the site down again twelve hours later, claiming to have removed the backups and stating, "all your db are belong to us" (an allusion to the phrase "all your base are belong to us").A new video posted to YouTube by someone who claimed to be The Regime shows a logo and uses a computer animated voice to threaten 711chan.org and their affiliates. The Regime, however, denies making the video saying "we are in no way responsible for making, nor are we tied to that video in any way."The video declares, "Dear 'Anonymous'. We are The Regime. Your attacks on Scientology have not gone unnoticed." The video's text description states that "Your attacks on Scientology have not gone unnoticed, we have the money, resources and tools to put an end to your SP behaviour and so called hacking activities. You have soiled the good name of LRH and now it is you that have *our* attention." The acronyms in the text description are Scientology jargon "suppressive person" (a person who criticizes Scientology) and Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard. Both terms were also used recently in a leaked internal Church of Scientology video featuring Tom Cruise promoting his beliefs. The video goes on to state that "Anonymous" has been declared "Fair Game" (another Scientology term).The title of The Regime video, "Re: Message to Scientology", is a reference to the video "Message to Scientology", which was posted by "Anonymous" to YouTube on Monday. The original "Message to Scientology" video has been viewed over 1,000,000 times since it was posted."We have your IP addresses, your documents and secret plans. We own your 711chan, your IRC, and we are taking care of your raid forums. Call off your attacks on our religion immediately, or 4chan YTMND, something awful and your other bases will be brought to ruin. Do not underestimate us. You are out of your league. You have been warned," added the video.In an exclusive interview with Wikinews, the group is only called The Regime. When asked what their mission was, they stated "we have none."Wikinews also asked who or what was in charge of their group and they replied, "At one point, this would have been a complicated question as there were many tiers and positions of authority, however now leadership is confined to a single council." They are also not affiliated with any other group and act alone with "no contacts with groups or individuals outside of itself." They also refused to describe their group as a whole. They also stated to "define affiliated" when Wikinews asked if they were part of the Church of Scientology.Their motivations are still not clear. When asked what motivates their group to do what they do, they replied, "What motivates any human to do anything? Money, Power, Respect? Choose one," but also state that they will continue their attacks "if necessary."Wikinews also asked if The Regime was in any way affiliated with the Church of Scientology, including working for or against their beliefs or being a 'branch of The Church' The Regime simply replied, "We are not Scientologists, this is all we have to say on the subject."Sources within the "Anonymous" group have played down the actions of The Regime who - when announced on the IRC channel the group utilizes for communications - were said to be "... a bunch of gloryhunters ridin [sic] on our tails". Another user of the IRC channel, calling himself "Anonz", was quoted as telling other members of the group "... It's funny how they call us scriptbunnies yet use scripts themselves." The general consensus was that "Anonymous is not impressed."The second oldest British veteran of the First World War turned 108 on Saturday, June 17th. He celebrated this at his retirement home in Wells, in the south-west of England.Harry Patch was called up to fight in 1917 at the age of 18, whilst he was a plumber's apprentice in Bath. Several days later he was in Belgium, participating in the Third Battle of Ypres, in Belgium, a battle which would kill 70000 soldiers in three months alone. Patch left the combat zone on September 22 after he was hit by a piece of shrapnel from a shell that had killed three of his companions. "I always remember September 22. That was the day three of my friends were killed," he said. "It was mud, more mud, and even more mud, and the lot was mixed with blood," he remembers. Patch is still convinced that the war was useless.The oldest living British veteran of the war is Henry Allingham, 110, who served in the Royal Naval Air Service, which would later become the Royal Air Force. The oldest man to have seen combat in the war is Moses Hardy, 113, in the United States, and the oldest to have served in the armed forces during the war is Emiliano Mercado Del Toro, 114, again from the United States."In the Name of the Grandfather", the fourteenth episode of the twentieth season of the American animated television series The Simpsons will today become the first episode of the show to premiere in Europe. It will air at 7:30 PM on Sky1 in the United Kingdom and Ireland and be paired with "Sex, Pies and Idiot Scrapes". The special broadcast is part of FOX's year-long "Best. 20 Years. Ever." celebration which commemorates the 20th anniversary of the show. To promote the broadcast, executive producers Al Jean and James L. Brooks, as well as Nancy Cartwright visited Ireland and are scheduled to participate in the Saint Patrick's Day parade in Dublin. The episode was screened at the Lighthouse Cinema in Dublin on March 16. The American debut of the episode will be March 22, 2009.In the episode, the Simpson family travels to Ireland so Grampa can visit a pub where he once had the best night of his life. Guest stars scheduled for the episode include Colm Meaney as Tom O’Flanagan, Kathy Ireland as herself, Glen Hansard as a street musician and Markéta Irglová as an Eastern European woman.Executive producer Al Jean stated the episode is intended to be "an affectionate love letter to Ireland" because many of the writers have Irish roots. The episode will feature Irish landmarks including Giant's Causeway, the Blarney Castle and the Guinness Brewery. Previous episodes of the show where the Simpson family visits other countries have been controversial. For example, the Simpsons visited Australia in "Bart vs. Australia" and Brazil in "Blame it on Lisa", and both episodes generated controversy and negative reaction in the visited countries. The Rio de Janeiro tourist board claimed that the city was portrayed as having rampant street crime, kidnappings, slums, and monkey and rat infestations; and threatened FOX with legal action. When asked whether he thought this episode would generate similar controversies, Al Jean replied "I'm Irish American and I know Irish people have an excellent sense of humor so we weren’t very worried."The animated television show, The Simpsons, has been taken off Venezuelan television after claims that the programme is "inappropriate" for children. A regulator in Venezuela said that, by airing the program, the network broadcasting The Simpsons, Televen, "were infringing many things in the television and radio social responsibility law."The American drama series Baywatch Hawaii, which stopped airing in the United Stated in 2001, is being aired as a replacement to the animated series. Baywatch is about the lives of fictional lifeguards in the county of Los Angeles.According to the CIA's The World Factbook, Venezuela has a total of 111 television channels. It is claimed in the factbook, however, that 45 of these are repeater channels.The website of Televen describes the animated series, which it will soon stop airing, as a "famous family," which has won "several awards."File:The Sultans Elephant spraying water.JPGThe Sultan's Elephant, a giant piece of street theatre by French group Royal de Luxe, has been entertaining Londoners over the course of this weekend. The show started on Thursday, when a 'crashed rocket' was in place at Victoria Place. On Friday, an oversized marionette of a young girl emerged from the rocket and met with the giant mechanised elephant. Over the course of the weekend, these two giant puppets have been parading around London streets, closed especially for the event.Whilst Friday remained hot and sunny, the weekend turned wetter, but the rain didn't seem to put off the crowds, some of who received a second soaking from the elephant's trunk! The elephant stopped at Trafalger Square over lunchtime on the Saturday, before parading to Horse Guard's Parade, where seating had been specially erected around a giant stage.File:Giant puppet girl licks lolly.jpgOver ten puppeteers operate the elephant, made mostly of wood, using a complex arrangement of hydraulics and motors. The elephant moves its feet, wags its tails, waves and squirts water from its trunk, flaps its ears, blinks, and can even open its mouth to reveal a moving tongue. The girl marionette is held on a big frame, and was given a ride on the elephant's trunk using a crane. The girl has been seen licking a giant lollipop, and even do a wee on the road.The spectacle will end on Sunday with a grand finale.The Taj Mahal, one of India's most famed monuments, has been gradually yellowing due to air pollution, authorities say.Plans are afoot to give the white marble structure a mud bath - the mud will absorb the dirt already accumulated as it dries and is then washed off. The cost has been assessed at US$230,000, and will need to be repeated every two to three years.Roughly 3,000,000 tourists visit the monument every year, and visitors are required to park 2 miles away from the monument in an effort to reduce pollution around the area.Warner Bros. Entertainment (a division of Time Warner, Inc.) and CBS Corporation announced today the merger of their two struggling television networks together to form one jointly owned network which will debut this fall.The new network, which is to be called CW (for CBS-Warner) will replace UPN and The WB networks, which will shut down. The network will be a 50-50 partnership between CBS and Warner Brothers. The network will be carried on stations owned by the Tribune Company, amongst others.The merger is in response to the struggling of both networks, neither of which have attracted much viewership away from the big four networks since they being formed in the early 90s. However each have had some strengths. The WB has been more popular with younger viewers and has had hits with television shows Smallville and Gilmore Girls. UPN has recently received critical acclaim for its sitcom Everybody Hates Chris and World Wrestling Entertainment's Smackdown! has been a mainstay since it debuted on the network. The new network's schedule will be announced in May; until then the networks will operate their schedules independently. The new network is planning to target the 18-34 age bracket in prime time, and will contain both shows from the WB and UPN.With UPN's 12 affiliated station, together with Tribune's 16 stations gives the new network coverage over half of the country. The Tribune stations that will be apart of the new network is WGN in Chicago, WB flagship station, WPIX in New York and KTLA in Los Angeles. WPIX will become the flagship station of the new network. Tribune will relinquish its 22.5% stake in the WB in return for a 10-year affiliation agreement with the network in turn.Dawn Ostroff, currently the president of UPN, will become president of entertainment and John Maatta, currently the chief operating officer of the WB, will become chief operating officer of the CW.Grammy Award-winning rock band The White Stripes announced on Wednesday the Canadian leg of a tour in support of their soon-to-be-released album, Icky Thump. The tour, which would be the first cross-Canada excursion for The White Stripes, will see the band play dates in all provinces and territories.The latest tour for The White Stripes will kick off June 1 in Nürburgring, Germany and will play several dates in Europe before starting off in Canada on June 24, in Burnaby, British Columbia. Canadian dates will include stops in northern locales such as Whitehorse, Yellowknife, and Iqaluit, on Baffin Island.The White Stripes, made up of guitarist/singer Jack White and drummer Meg White, have developed a significant worldwide following with their blend of punk and blues, guitar-oriented rock. The band had expressed interest in playing cities they had not yet visited. "Having never done a full tour of Canada, Meg and I thought it was high time to go whole hog," said Jack White on The White Stripes website. "We want to take this tour to the far reaches of the Canadian landscape. From the ocean to the permafrost." The band's website referred to Canada by its nickname, the 'Great White North'.The White Stripes have played to thousands in large outdoor festival settings, but will have to deal with different logistics while setting up in a northern location, such as Iqaluit.Some 500 tickets for the Iqaluit show are to be sold, with an admission fee of approximately CA$40. Mike Bozzer, the city of Iqaluit's economic development officer, told CBC News that talks have taken place with The White Stripes' publicist regarding equipment, technicians, security and other such details. "It's definitely going to have some economic impact, and they'll come back home with positive stories of the city," said Bozzer.The band's ten-year anniversary will be reached at a point during the Canadian leg of the tour, which will be commemorated. "Another special moment of this tour is the show which will occur in Glace Bay, Nova Scotia on July 14th, The White Stripes’ Tenth Anniversary," said Jack White.Following the Canadian dates, The White Stripes will embark on a tour in the United States, which will reach some 16 states they have not yet visited during their career, among other repeat locations.Nintendo has released its newest video game console in North America. Known as the Wii, the system and games have an MSRP of US$249.99 and US$49.99 respectively. The North American release is to be followed by the December 2nd launch in Japan and the December 8th launch in Europe.Launched officially at midnight, more than a thousand people gathered in New York's Time Square to be among the first to buy one of the Wii. In contrast to the crowds that have challenged crowd control officials over the last two days in connection with the launch of Sony's Playstation 3, the Wii crowds have been much calmer. Many observers attribute this to the fact that Nintendo had more than ten times as many Wii consoles available on launching day than Sony did for their PS3 that had been hounded by part shortages in manufacturing right up to the day of launch.Nintendo of America president Reggie Fils-Aime said that several tough choices had been made in the design of the Wii. The company decided to develop a new way of playing games with revolutionary controllers instead of following the PS3 and the Xbox down the road of stunning graphic and multimedia options. This produced a console with a much talked-about sensor/controller design and the lowest price point of the three major consoles. While not having a DVD player or high-definition TV capabilities, the Wii retails for about $250 while its competitors the Xbox 360 and PS3 retail for about $400 and $600 respectively. While the Wii will launch with several games available, one of its advertised advantages is that the new console is largely compatible with older games made for the GameCube, giving the new console an instant and extensive launching library. A GameCube controller will be needed to play GameCube games with the Wii. Several hardware items that GameCube games may be expecting, such as the modem or broadband adapter or the GameBoy player are not supported on the Wii.Across the country in Los Angeles about 500 people were waiting for the doors to open at Universal City Walk's Game Stop store. Fearing that the Wii introduction might be as contentious as the PS3 debut just a few days ago, the store handed out numbered wristbands to the throng. No problems were reported.Music documentary The Wrecking Crew received its commercial première Friday, screening in cinemas in Los Angeles and New York via Magnolia Pictures. Two decades in the making, Denny Tedesco's documentary observes and honours a group of session musicians collectively known as "The Wrecking Crew". Tedesco explained he was moved to begin the documentary when he learned his father, guitarist Tommy Tedesco, had cancer in 1996. "When they said he had a year to live — and I always wanted to do this story about The Wrecking Crew — my concern was, if I don't do it, it's going to be the biggest regret of my life". Tedesco commented on his anticipation of audiences' reaction at Nuart Theatre in Los Angeles, "People say, 'aren't you tired of watching it?' I say, 'I don't watch it, I watch the crowd'." The documentary showcases interviews with the late Tommy Tedesco, guitarist Glen Campbell, drummers Hal Blaine and Earl Palmer, bassist Carol Kaye, and others, amongst the roughly 30 musicians that formed The Wrecking Crew's loose roster. Cher, Nancy Sinatra, and Brian Wilson from the Beach Boys are also seen talking about the session artists.The movie includes home footage of Tommy Tedesco, and photographs of The Wrecking Crew working in studios with artists Frank and Nancy Sinatra.Originally completed in 2008, and screened at several festivals, the commercial release was delayed until recently as Tedesco needed to raise money to cover licensing costs of the one hundred and ten songs included in the film.Tedesco explained: "We had a $750,000 bill before we could even release this film theatrically, so no-one was touching us. We still had this thing around our neck. Documentaries don't sell, and music docs are the worst." Tedesco described reaching out to sponsors to pay off publishers and labels to get the film into cinemas. "Every time I got money from a donation, I'd pay off a label or publisher." A Kickstarter campaign raised $300,000, which paid for licensing and session artists. Billboard reports the money was able to go towards the creation of outtakes for a future DVD. Tedesco said he wanted to keep outtakes of the interviews he conducted that didn't make it into the movie. "I want to do outtakes of every musician, a lot of whom aren't in the movie[...] Who are they? What did they do? I want to give everyone their say." The Wrecking Crew worked behind the scenes throughout the 50s, 60s, and 70s with well-know bands and artists on memorable tracks such as Sonny and Cher, "I got you Babe"; Beach Boys, "California Girls"; Elvis Presley's, "A Little Less Conversation"; and The Ronettes, "Be my Baby". Aside from the interviews,  the documentary also includes footage of The Wrecking Crew, filmed by Hal Blaine. He dubbed himself a director as he joked around with the other musicians. "I had a camera, and I took it to work and I became a director of sorts. And I'd tell people like Tommy, 'Hey, Tommy, do me a favour. I'm going to take a film of you. Just come walking into the studio, and all of a sudden pretend you've walked into a great big orgy going on here. There's all these naked women and guys.' And we're laughing about it. I did that with Glenn Campbell, all the guys", Blaine said.The centenary celebrations of Indian freedom fighter Pasumpon U.Muthuramalingam Thevar begin in Tamil Nadu amidst tight security arrangements. The Chief Minister, M.Karunanidhi as well as the AIADMK supremo J.Jayalalithaa have organized functions in Thevar's native village Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district in commemoration of this event. Sporadic instances of violence and group clashes have been reported.U.Muthuramalinga Thevar, prominently known as Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar after his native village Pasumpon in Ramanathapuram district, was born on October 30, 1908 in the southern part of the then Madras province. He was a trade union leader and a close associate of Subash Chandra Bose in the independence movement.Rock group U2 will play a third date at Dublin's Croke Park this year. Following strong demand from fans, the group have announced that they will play Monday June 27th in addition to the 23rd and 24th.The band's current Vertigo tour has proved extremely popular among fans, with the original 160,000 Dublin tickets sold in less than an hour. The tour officially kicked off in San Diego, USA on 28 March 2005.Although no support act has yet been lined up for the extra date, it is widely believed that promoters MCD will have no trouble selling the additional 80,000 tickets.The third edition of Bucharest's gay pride festival, GayFest, opened yesterday, May 30. The festival, which will last until June 4, consists of a series of LGBT cultural events, including film screenings, theatre and photographic exhibitions, as well as public debates about LGBT issues, and a gay pride parade on June 3, expected to attract hundreds of people. GayFest is organised by ACCEPT, Romania's largest LGBT organisation, and supported by the Romanian Government and Ministry of Health, as well as various private organisations.The main theme of the third GayFest is the legalisation of same-sex civil unions and marriages in Romania. Florin Buhuceanu, the executive manager of ACCEPT, said that, "The time has come for Romania to acknowledge the rights of all its citizens. Guaranteeing the equality of rights through the recognition of gay marriage... is just a step forward." He added that, "The [GayFest] activities mark the most focused drive yet to change opinions on gay marriage in Romania." Same-sex couples currently have no legal recognition in Romania. Legalisation of either civil unions or marriage between people of the same sex would be possible through an amendment of the Family Code, if approved by a majority in parliament.Last year's GayFest, which included the country's first gay pride parade, attracted a significant amount of controversy from right-wing groups, as well as the Romanian Orthodox Church. It was initially not given authorisation from the Bucharest City Hall, which claimed that it could not guarantee its security. Approval was, however, later given due to pressure from the Romanian President, Traian Băsescu and the Justice Minister, Monica Macovei, both of whom support LGBT rights. Unlike recent gay pride parades in Poland and Moscow, which ended in violence and were actively opposed by government officials, this year's Bucharest GayFest parade was authorised by the City Hall without controversy, even though the Romanian Orthodox Church is once again expected to protest its organisation. In the past few years, Romania has significantly changed its gay rights record, introducing an anti-discrimination law in 2000 that includes sexual orientation, and repealing its last anti-gay law, Article 200 of the Penal Code, in 2001.Thirty people are reportedly dead according to La Nación, in the second-to-last day of the Bicentennial of Chile celebrations through all the country. There is one more death than last year's celebrations. La Nación reports nine deaths on main roads and 21 on rural routes.The national police issued 255 infringements for driving under the influence of alcohol, and 1,555 for speeding."Travel has to be well planned. They must not drive for more than two hours," an officer told Radio Cooperativa.A large departure of tourists from beaches or other vacation spots is expected to be at "peak hours" after 18:00 (22:00 UTC).Tens of thousands protested yesterday in Bolotnaya Square, Moscow over allegations of election fraud in parliamentary elections won by United Russia, the ruling political party, led by current Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin.The exact number of protesters present is unknown; estimates for the Moscow protest vary from twenty thousand to one hundred thousand, and rallies on a more minor scale also took place in other Russian cities—including Saint Petersburg. Voice of America (VoA) reported the demonstrations as the largest pro-democracy protests since Vladimir Putin came to power eleven years ago. Other reports describe the demonstrations as the greatest since the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Police estimated that ten thousand people were present at demonstrations in St. Petersburg. Corruption and a rejection of Putin were the most commonly-cited grievances from questioned protesters.Opposition leader Evgenia Chirikova told VoA the protests were in favour of fresh elections, and the release of political prisoners. During the demonstrations, protesters chanted "[p]olice, part of the people" at the riot police. Echo of Moscow host Alexei Venediktov described the protesters as "the new generation, the Putin generation". These people "voted, had their votes stolen, and now they want a fair system", said Venediktov.Konstantin Kosachyov, a United Russia parliamentarian, dismissed the concept of discussions with the protest organisers. "With all respect for the people who came out to protest, they are not a political party," he stated. Student Daniil Klubov, a leader of the St. Petersburg rally, told the BBC that he does not "belong to any political movement" and is "just a student who is tired of all these lies".Last week, Russian police arrested an estimated 1,600 people after street protests. In anticipation of yesterday's protests, fifty thousand police and riot police were drafted into Moscow. Under one hundred arrests were made across the country during the day of protest.Television stations operated by the Russian government provided no coverage of protests in Russia from last week's election, but lifted the blackout one week on, broadcasting images of thousands filling a Moscow park, spilling over a bridge and covering a facing embankment.On Friday, Moscow authorities declared an obligatory test for all high school students, scheduling it for the exact time of protests on Saturday; protest leader Alexey Navalny is currently imprisoned by order of a Russian judge. And, a Russian health board warned of respiratory diseases being contracted when being in large crowds. Russian Ground Forces cautioned that they would be observing, looking for instances of draft evasion as protesters walked through metal detectors.Although United Russia were declared victors in last Sunday's polls, the percentage of votes in their favour decreased significantly—down from 64% to 49%.In March next year, Putin himself will face voters, seeking a new six-year term as Russian President. VoA reported last week that his presidential bid looked likely to succeed; however, that outcome now seems less predictable.A car fatally crashed into three individuals in the British city of Birmingham, England. The three men, aged 31, 30, and 21, died during a second consecutive night of violent events in Birmingham.The incident occurred at approximately 0100 BST (0000 UTC) Wednesday morning in the Birmingham inner-city region of Winson Green. The men were attempting to protect property from nearby riots. Witness reports say that the vehicle contained as many as three passengers and drove at a speed of fifty miles per hour without stopping after the crash.Police have since recovered a vehicle and arrested a 32-year-old male in association with the incident, on a charge of murder. According to Chief Constable Chris Sims, the details of the incident West Midlands Police have would indicate that "the car was deliberately driven". Tariq Jahan, the father of one of those killed, said his son, 21-year-old Haroon Jahan, was attempting to protect the area from nearby violence and unrest. Jahan said he had attempted to perform CPR at the scene of the incident. Jahan said his son was "a very good lad, a good man starting at the beginning of his life and had his whole life ahead of him. I've got no words to describe why he was taken and why this has happened and what's happening to the whole of England." Jahan said violent acts like this which killed innocent bystanders made "no sense". A statement released from West Midlands Police says that "detectives are treating [this incident] as murder. Three men were taken to hospital where two later died from their injuries. A third man was in a critical condition but confirmed dead at around 6:30AM. West Midlands Police have launched a murder inquiry, arrested one man in connection with the incident and recovered a vehicle nearby which will be examined by forensics experts," the force stated. Police have requested that individuals contact them if they have any information about the incident. About 200 people from the Asian community have gathered at the hospital where the victims were transported after the crash. Two of the victims were known to be brothers. All three of them were reported to be Pakistani Muslims.The West Midlands has seen other instances of violent behavior. Thefts have taken place in the city centre of Birmingham, West Bromwich and in Wolverhampton. The charges being brought against suspects on remand for court appearances include public disorder offences, such as violent disorder and aggravated burglary. Six police officers have experienced minor injuries as a result of the violence.According to police, a scrapyard fire which occurred in Birmingham is unrelated to recent violence. Two ambulances were attacked in two separate incidents with objects being thrown at the vehicles. Ambulance staff were left uninjured in both cases. Ambulances have appeared on thirty-five occasions in West Bromwich, Wolverhampton and various parts of Birmingham. Thirty-one individuals were given ambulance staff treatment, with nineteen receiving hospital treatment, albeit for practically minor assaults in most cases.In Wolverhampton and West Bromwich, there have been reports of roads and streets being closed. Wolverhampton and Birmingham have experienced significant travel disruption, with buses not entering city centres last night. One vehicle in Birmingham and two in West Bromwich have been set alight amongst the violence. Various businesses have also been targeted, such as M&S and a high fidelity shop in Birmingham. A jewelry business in Wolverhampton has been robbed of ornaments, watches and money.Yesterday, British Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg condemned the violent actions of individuals, claiming there was "simply no excuse whatsoever for the violence, looting and destruction". Below is a picture gallery of the damage caused by public disorder in Birmingham Tuesday night:File:240-dogFighting.jpgThree Finnish men have been arrested as part of an investigation by the Finnish National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) into apparent illegal dogfights in various locations in the south of the country.Dog fights, in which two dogs are pitted head-to-head for the entertainment of spectators and for gambling, is illegal in Finland, and is covered by Finland's animal protection laws, as dogs often sustain severe or even fatal injuries. It is believed this case also involved gambling, thus rendering the suspects, if convicted, in breach of gambling laws also.The investigation was started in July after the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) forwarded information to the NBI, claiming that during an investigation of its own for a programme it was making into dog fighting in the United Kingdom, they had uncovered connections to comparable activity in Finland."We are trying to find out when the activity has started and how widespread it has been. Apparently, just a small gang of people has been involved." said Detective Chief Inspector Göran Wennqvist, adding that "We are now trying to find out whether or not this is part of a larger international organisation or just local criminal activity."It is believed the dogs went through training fights to test if they were suitable for fighting prior to actual events. A number of animals thought to have been used for fighting have been examined by a veterinarian to determine the types of injuries sustained by the dogs.Despite the fact that dog fighting is known to have occurred in various countries - including countries close to Finland, such as Sweden, Norway, and Russia - neither the police or the Finnish Kennel Club were aware of any previous incidents occurring in Finland, although chairman of the board of the Finnish Kennel Club Martti Mannersuo told reporters that he recalled a rumour "many years ago" of domestic dog fights occurring in Finland, although this went unconfirmed. Wennqvist, however, independently told YLE "In other Nordic countries, they have seen incidents of dog fighting since the 90's, but I haven't come across any cases in Finland in 32 years," although it is unclear if this was a confirmed case or if it were linked to the rumour Mannersuo had reported.The United States amusement park operator Six Flags has shut down nine thrill rides at four parks after a 13-year-old girl's feet were cut off on a tower-drop ride yesterday at Six Flags Kentucky Kingdom in Louisville.Kentucky state officials said a loose cable on a ride called the Superman Tower of Power severed the girl’s feet above the ankles, but they had not determined how the cable broke free, or at what point in the ride the accident happened. The ride lifts passengers 177 feet (54 metres) straight up, then drops them nearly the same distance at speeds reaching 54 mph (86 km/h).The girl, whose identity has not been released, was taken to a hospital. Details of her condition were not immediately available.Six Flags spokeswoman Carolyn McLean told The Courier-Journal that there has never been a major incident on the Tower of Power. Formerly known as the Hellavator, the ride was built in 1995.In addition to Kentucky Kingdom, rides have been shut down at Six Flags Great America in Gurnee, Illinois; Six Flags St. Louis in Eureka, Missouri; and Six Flags America, Prince George's County, Maryland.A Superman Tower of Power Ride at Six Flags Over Texas in Arlington has not been shut down because it is not the same as the ones in Kentucky and the other locations that have been shut, Six Flags spokeswoman Wendy Goldberg told the Associated Press.The rides that have been shut down are made by a Swiss-owned company called Intamin.Cedar Fair Entertainment Company said it was shutting down similar thrill rides at its theme parks at Kings Island in Mason, Ohio; Canada's Wonderland in Vaughan, Ontario; Kings Dominion in Doswell, Virginia; Carowinds in Charlotte, North Carolina; and Great America in Santa Clara, California.Thunderstone have joined up with Sonata Arctica as the latter's support act for a four-gig mini tour across the days between Christmas and New Year. Both acts are power metal bands native to Finland, where the tour is being held.The four dates and venues have been confirmed as follows:December 27 - Teatria - Oulu, FinlandDecember 29 - Kaapelitehdas - Helsinki, FinlandDecember 30 - Metroauto Areena - Tampere, FinlandDecember 31 - Jäähalli - Mikkeli, FinlandThe gigs in Oulu and Mikkeli will feature Tuple Salminen of Tarot filling the role of lead vocals, while the Helsinki and Tampere concerts will feature original singer Pasi Rantanen, who is leaving the band, for the last time.Lead guitarist Nino Laurenne made this statement regarding the adition of Thunderstone to Sonata Arctica's tour: "It's great to close one chapter of Thunderstone with these two Christmas gigs and show people that there is no animosity between us. We are looking forward to a bright future with the new members, whoever they turn out to be in the end."Sonata Arctica are starting the tour in Sweden, but will only be joined by Thunderstone on the four Finnish events. Meanwhile, Thunderstone are finalising preparations for a European tour co-headlining with Nocturnal Rites.As many publishing executives, companies, and world-wide media anticipated for the 2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition (TIBE 2008), the fair joined the International Publishers Association (IPA) as their member after permission by the IPA last Tuesday (Feb. 5) and the Taipei Book Fair Foundation (TBFF) held a contract-signing ceremony today for the partnership program between IPA and TIBE at the press conference of TIBE 2008.Director of the Government Information Office of the Republic of the China Jhy-Wey Shieh said after the signing:After the contract-signing, members from the TBFF will have opportunities to gain experiences from publishing industry and world-class book expositions in several countries, and the publishing industry in Taiwan will be improved progressively in the future.Toronto pop culture convention Fan Expo Canada has wrapped for another year. It ran from Thursday to Sunday. Major panels included Tim Curry and the cast of Rocky Horror Picture Show, Beauty and the Beast voices Robby Benson and Paige O'Hara, actors Kathleen Turner, Richard Dreyfuss, Anthony Daniels, Felicia Day, and child leads from Stranger Things. Canadian television channel Space hosted a Star Trek: Discovery panel with seven lead cast members. On the heels of sister event Toronto Comic Con's Degrassi reunion event, the lineup included a twentieth anniversary panel with the stars of another Canadian high school television series, Student Bodies.Heading into its fourth and final season, attendees got a chance to see the season opener of Star Wars: Rebels on Saturday, followed by a panel. The event has had a continuing relationship with the series, screening other episodes previously. The second season premiere of the sci-fi series Travelers was accompanied by a panel including Eric McCormack. Canadian true-crime drama Bad Blood had its world premiere. Other debuts included broadcaster City with the Canadian premiere of Ghosted, with Craig Robinson in attendance, Teletoon with the Canadian premiere of Hotel Transylvania: The Series, and YTV with the new animated series Mysticons.Anime fans could watch episodes of their favourite shows, including AKB0048, Otaku No Video, Hana Yamata, My Hero Academia, Fairy Tail, and Penguindrum.The book Star Wars Made Easy, targeted to non-fans to get up to speed on the fictional universe's various facts and figures, was ironically launched by DK Canada for a room of fans of the franchise. Author Christian Blauvelt answered questions from the audience on topics like his opinion on Midiclorians — he understands fan contention, but suggested that science and religion can co-exist, like in the real world — quizzed the audience on trivia, and signed copies of his book.Some panels were quite ahead of the curve: one on Star Wars costume and prop building discussed building Porgs figures, despite the film The Last Jedi not being released to theatres yet.York Regional Police were at the event with United and Unity, two brightly lit characters of their own creation. The force received funding in 2014 from the Provincial Anti-Violence Intervention Strategy  to create a short film featuring the character United, receiving positive recognition locally. “Our United superhero program is part of our on-going efforts to connect with our community and show police in a different light,” YRP Constable Andy Pattenden told Wikinews. He explains that the officers who developed the project have a background in film-making, and “serve as an opportunity for us to start a conversation with youth and connect with them at a non-traditional level.”Star Wars character Jabba the Hutt, a puppet in the 1983 film Return of the Jedi, was re-created by the 501st Legion as an animatronic. The 501st is a fan group that dresses like the series villains for charitable events, particularly those raising funds for the Make-A-Wish Foundation. The new addition to their annual display commanded long lineups throughout the day, from con-goers looking to donate in exchange for a photo-op with the massive, slug-like alien.								As with most major conventions, cosplayers were numerous, ranging from simple outfits that wouldn't raise an eyebrow if worn from day-to-day, to elaborately-created costumes and giant props. Outfits recognized by Wikinews' reporter ranged from classic characters like the 1960s version of Batgirl and Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, a character created by Walt Disney in 1927, before Mickey, to 2010s characters from creative works like Undertale, Disney Descendants, League of Legends, and Adventure Time. Few characters are too obscure, if they appeal to a fan: the female avatar of “hivemind” character Unity, from a single episode of Rick and Morty, was spotted. One woman “biting” another woman's arm would be cause for concern most places, but at a pop culture convention, it simply means that “Lilo” is re-enacting a scene with “Mertle”, as seen in the film Lilo and Stitch.														Wikinews talked with Cheryl, the co-host of the weekly video series "Our Didnee Side", who was dressed as Gadget Hackwrench, a mouse from the 1990s television series Chip 'n Dale: Rescue Rangers. Speaking for both of the hosts, she said their passion for Disney has “exploded” since starting the YouTube channel, and that they are both “creators. We can't seem to go a day without making something. We love doing Disney cosplay because it is like a beacon for other people in the fandom to come find us in a sea of other characters.” Conventions like Fan Expo Canada become “a great opportunity to meet like-minded Disney fans, and to possibly escape for the weekend from our 'boring human' lives.”Adrianna Prosser, host of Toronto geek culture community website Geektropolis, spent part of the convention Fan Expo Canada 2017 as the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man. She told Wikinews that "geeking in Toronto is always such a joy, what with amazing cosplay and passionate fandoms coming together at Fan Expo!" She explained that the site tries to keep the feeling of the event going all year, featuring local creators and “geeky” fans, in an effort to bring the community closer together.Party game Cards Against Humanity — intriguingly available under a non-commercial Creative Commons license — offered a "Free Apologies from An American" booth, where a representative offered regrets to the largely Canadian visitors. The booth's curtains came into use at least once on Friday, closing when a Trump cosplayer reached the front of the line.NBC News Washington bureau chief, senior vice president and the moderator of Meet the Press Tim Russert has died today after a sudden heart attack at NBC's Washington news bureau. He was rushed to Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C., where resuscitation efforts failed.Russert was recording voiceovers for Meet the Press when he collapsed. Russert and his family had recently returned from Italy after celebrating his son Luke's graduation from Boston College. He is survived by his wife Maureen Orth, son Luke, and father, who he knew fondly as "Big Russ", as illustrated in his best selling book, "Big Russ and Me."A Buffalo, New York native, Russert graduated from John Carroll University and Cleveland-Marshall College of Law before entering politics. He was also a member of the bar in New York and Washington, D.C. Russert entered politics as former New York Governor Mario Cuomo's press secretary and was the chief of staff to former Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan. Russert joined NBC News in 1984, directed broadcasts of the Today program, and went on to lead NBC News broadcasts from South America, Australia and China in 1986 and 1987. He took over the role as Meet the Press, a Sunday morning talk show, in 1991. His 16 1/2 years as moderator exceeded those of other hosts of the sixty year old public affairs show.  His tenure in the position extended over the terms of three different U.S. presidents, George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush.  Time named him one of the world's one-hundred most influential people in 2008.Russert was a very meritorious journalist, winning an Emmy Award for his coverage of the funeral of President Ronald Reagan. A very decorated journalist, Russert received forty-eight honorary doctorates and was a member of the Broadcasting & Cable Hall of Fame.Time magazine named 14-year-old Ahmed Mohamed yesterday to its list of "30 Most Influential Teens of 2015". He was made famous after being taken into custody by police when a teacher thought a clock he brought to his Texas school looked like a bomb. Mohamed joins the ranks of influential teens including US President Barack Obama's daughter Malia Obama, and Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai.Time said of Mohamed in announcing the news: "Not many people make national news by bringing a homemade clock to school. But the ninth-grader's arrest, after teachers and authorities mistook said clock for a bomb, kicked off a national debate over racial profiling".Mohamed traveled to the White House last week where he met with US President Barack Obama. His family said last week that they would move from Texas to Qatar, where Mohamed was offered a full-scholarship to a well-respected school in the country.The September 14 incident in Irving, Texas triggered a wider discussion about Islamophobia within the community. The Twitter hashtag #IStandWithAhmed became part of a social movement in support of the youth. After news of the police response was reported, Mohamed received support online ranging from US President Barack Obama to Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg.Mohamed brought the digital clock he made to school on September 14, and a teacher mistakenly thought it resembled a bomb. Police arrested and questioned the student. Images of the boy wearing a NASA T-shirt and handcuffed by the police were quickly posted and reposted online.The Twitter attention led to outreach from Google and Mohamed was invited to their Google Science Fair. Mohamed was a VIP guest at the Google Science Fair, and met finalists at the event held at Google's headquarters located in Mountain View, California. Co-founder of Google, Sergey Brin, personally met with Mohamed during his visit to Google.US President Barack Obama tweeted using his @POTUS account: "Cool clock, Ahmed. Want to bring it to the White House? We should inspire more kids like you to like science. It's what makes America great." Twitter gave Mohamed the option to come to their company for an internship. Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg tweeted to Mohamed and said the boy was welcome to come and tour the company.Both the Irving Independent School District and the Irving Police Department have asserted that the boy's religion and name were not a factor in the manner in which they approached the situation.Set to hit newstands in the United States on Monday, the annual news feature by TIME magazine pictures on its glossy front page an Apple iMac-styled computer keyboard and monitor with a reflective monitor surface that reflects YOU as the most influential Person of the Year, for "community and collaboration on a scale never seen before." "For seizing the reins of the global media, for founding and framing the new digital democracy, for working for nothing and beating the pros at their own game, Time's Person of the Year for 2006 is you," Lev Grossman, Time's technology writer, wrote. The magazine claims that those who contribute content to the web are the ones driving the information age, instead of mainstream media."It's about the many wresting power from the few and helping one another for nothing and how that will not only change the world, but also change the way the world changes," said Grossman.Magazine editor Richard Stengel said, "If you choose an individual, you have to justify how that person affected millions of people. But if you choose millions of people, you don’t have to justify it to anyone.”26 “People Who Mattered” are listed in the magazine, ranging from North Korea's president Kim Jong Il to Pope Benedict XVI.According to Stengel, if the magazine had to choose an individual the choice was likely to have been Iran's president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.Stengel however seemed uneasy about naming Ahmadinejad. “It just felt to me a little off selecting him,” said Time's editor.There has been a "Time Person of the Year" since 1927 and the special issue has become a catalyst for speculation every year. In the past there have been controversies with Adolf Hitler named in 1938 and Ayatollah Khomeini named in 1979. According to the magazine, the person of the year are those who affected the news and our lives both positively and negatively over the past year.It is not the first time the magazine has departed from naming an actual person as Person of the Year. In 1966 the magazine named people under 25, in 1975 it named American women, and in 1982 it named the computer.A bid topping $17.7 billion was jointly proffered by Time Warner Inc. and Comcast Corporation on Thursday to buy beleaguered Adelphia Communications Corporation in an industry consolidation move. Adelphia is the fifth largest cable service provider in the United States with nearly 5 million subscribers.The market-share grabbing bid trumps the previous Cablevision offer of $16.5 billion.  The bid is under scrutiny by the presiding judge over the Adelphia’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, and must also be approved by the company’s creditors owed in the range of $20 million.The acquisition race to gain dominance in the cable service provider market is driven by the high cost of  installation and maintenance of cable lines. Fiber optic networks deliver traditional entertainment programming over a cable wire and is becoming increasingly popular for broadband internet content. The growing trust and recognition of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) suggests phone service subscribers will eventually migrate to cable voice communication as opposed to keeping with traditional copper land lines. Telephone company operators are scrambling to keep up.The largest percentage of the bid would be put up by Time Warner (TW), who could gain by getting subscribers from the valuable Los Angeles market currently owned by Comcast and Adelphia. TW can also simultaneously divest itself of a stake owned by Comcast in TW by making a tax-free swap using some of the newly garnered Adelphia subscribers.While the consolidation would likely get a look by the government with an eye towards a growing monopoly in the market, it would doubtfully be blocked considering the existence of competing technologies. Competition exists in the form of still numerous television by airwaves usage, satellite providers, radio content companies, and telecom providers.Adelphia suffered a corporate scandal in 1992 with similarities to the WorldCom fall. Members of the Rigas family, founders of the company, were alleged to have siphoned off millions of dollars and hidden $2.3 billion leading to the bankruptcy filing. John Rigas and son Timothy were convicted July of 2004 and await sentencing.Disney president John Lasseter has announced that British actor Timothy Dalton will be voicing a character in Toy Story 3.File:Tdalton.jpgDalton, who previously starred as James Bond in Licence to Kill and The Living Daylights, will star as a thespian hedgehog called Mr. Pricklypants in Toy Story 3, a film which is due for release in June 2010. Mr. Pricklypants is described as "a hedgehog toy with thespian tendencies".John Lasseter, Disney/Pixar Chief Creative Officer, made the announcement at a Disney Animation Showcase in London, England on Thursday.  At the same event it was announced that Mandy Moore would star in a cartoon based on the fairytale Rapunzel and that a James Bond-style character will appear in upcoming Disney/Pixar film Cars 2. In August 2009, it was also announced that Michael Keaton — from the movie Cars — would voice Ken, the boyfriend to Barbie in the film.John Lasseter originally announced the plans for the third film in the franchise in January 2008 and said that people would be "blown away" by it. He proclaimed: "It [Toy Story 3] is shaping up to be another great adventure for Buzz, Woody and the gang from Andy's room."Gloria Stuart, US Academy Award nominated film actress, has died at the age of 100. Stuart died at her home in West Los Angeles, and her death was announced by her daughter, Sylvia Thompson. Stuart had been suffering from lung cancer for five years before her death.She appeared in films such as The Invisible Man (1933) Here Comes the Navy (1934), and Titanic (1997).Stuart started her career in the 1930s as one of Hollywood's leading ladies. Between 1932 and 1939, Stuart appeared in 42 films. During the prime of her career, Stuart appeared with actresses such as Shirley Temple, Warner Baxter, and Dick Powell. She officially retired in 1946, after only making four films during the 1940s.Despite her retirement, Stuart appeared in James Cameron's 1997 adaptation of Titanic, where she was cast as Old Rose, a survivor of the disaster and narrator of the film. Stuart was then nominated for an Academy Award, becoming the oldest ever person to be nominated, at the age of 87.After her appearance she found new fame, being given a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2000, and People Magazine listed her as one of the 50 Most Beautiful People in the World.The name for the newest James Bond film has been announced today.  The 22nd film, previously known only as "Bond 22", will be called "Quantum of Solace". EON Productions who are producing the film made the announcement today at Pinewood Studios, where production for the film has been under way since last year.The name of the film was inspired by a short story (of the same name) from For Your Eyes Only by Bond creator, Ian Fleming.The film will be the second for star Daniel Craig, who first starred in Casino Royale in 2006, taking over from Pierce Brosnan. Producer Michael G. Wilson has previously said that the film will continue "literally an hour after" Casino Royale's conclusion.Delegations from every region of ex-Yugoslavia, except Kosovo, visited Josip Broz Tito's grave in Belgrade on a 25th anniversary of his death. Tito, the lifelong president of Yugoslavia from 1953, died on May 4, 1980 and was buried in the "House of Flowers" in Belgrade.World War Two veterans, as well as youngsters, carrying Yugoslavian flags, laid down flowers on Tito's grave.Two Macedonians, a 59-year-old Stojanche Kostovski and a 21-year-old Goce Velkovski, marched from Skoplje, Macedonia to Belgrade, Serbia to visit Tito's grave, covering around 463 km in 13 days.B92 quoted one of the visitors, Miloica Ružić, as saying "While Tito was alive I had no democracy, but I had money and a passport. Now I have democracy, but also an empty stomach."A visitor from Vrbas said "Many go to monasteries and churches, but I came here to find peace."NGO "General Consulate of SFRY", from Tivat, Montenegro, published an obituary in major Montenegran daily newspapers, containing Tito's photography and the text: "Quarter of a century without you - a whole century backwards."Tom Baker, one of the ten actors to play The Doctor in the BBC's long-running television series Doctor Who, has become the voice of the new BT text messaging voice service, which translates a text message sent from a mobile phone to a BT landlines into a voice messages heard by the receiver as an answerphone message.Baker's voice will replace the earlier computer-synthesized voice that was previously used. BT said that his voice was chosen as it was instantly recognisable. It took him 11 days to record 11,593 phrases and sounds which could then be broken down and reassembled by a computer to make new words. It then took five months to process these recordings to make a workable service.BT have said that there will be no barriers as to what Tom Baker's voice can 'say', including rude words. "What appeals to me most is the thought that I will be bringing good news to people whether it is a cheeky message, a birthday greeting, or just a quick hello," said Baker.The service, which can only be received by those with a BT line, costs nothing to receive voice messages, and text messages are charged at the normal rate.BT GROUP revealed that texts to landlines had soared 70 per cent in volume on the first day that Tom Baker's voice was used to deliver messages, and have now passed the three million mark in just ten days.In an interview on NBC's Today show with Matt Lauer, Tom Cruise aggressively defended his opposition to psychiatry and anti-depressive drugs.  This occurred after being asked questions about his criticism of Brooke Shields, who has been taking drugs, including Paxil, for postpartum depression.  Cruise is usually known for keeping his cool in interviews, but recently he has been slightly more unbound.Cruise's statements, including "Psychiatry is a pseudoscience", and "There is no such thing as a chemical imbalance in a body", reflect the beliefs of the Church of Scientology, of which he is a member.  The interview became particularly tense when Lauer mentioned that he knew people who had been helped by taking Ritalin, an attention-deficit disorder drug."Matt, Matt, you don't even — you're glib," Cruise responded. "You don't even know what Ritalin is. If you start talking about chemical imbalance, you have to evaluate and read the research papers on how they came up with these theories, Matt, OK. That's what I've done."Cruise went on to say: "You don't know the history of psychiatry, I do."Cruise has not formally studied medicine beyond a high school education, having dropped out in his senior year (1980) to pursue an acting career.  In light of this, some members of the psychiatric community have refuted Cruise's controversial statements.  Dr. John Scully, medical director of the American Psychiatric Association, has said "The illnesses we treat - anxiety, depression - are very real illnesses...The treatments work. We have demonstrated that through robust scientific study."Lauer insisted that Ritalin helped people:  "You're telling me what's worked for people I know or hasn't worked for people I know. I'm telling you, I've lived with these people and they're better," Lauer said.Cruise hinted that Lauer was promoting Ritalin and Lauer scoffed: "I am not. I'm telling you in their cases, in their individual case, it worked."The exchange ended when the two basically agreed to disagree. Cruise, who is 42, did admit that one of his goals is to speak more about Scientology in an effort to get people to understand it better.Scientology has historically been at odds with the established medical and mental health community. The rift dates back to the 1950s and Scientology's founding father L. Ron Hubbard. In his book, "Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health", published in 1950, Hubbard claims that Dianetics (later called Scientology) could cure the majority of human ailments. These claims were sharply disputed by a variety of mainstream science and medical professionals including psychiatrists.On Monday, June 27, 2005, the American Psychiatric Association released a statement that stated the following:"It is irresponsible for Mr. Cruise to use his movie publicity tour to promote his own ideological views and deter people with mental illness from getting the care they need...Rigorous, published, peer-reviewed research clearly demonstrates that treatment (of mental illness) works...It is unfortunate that in the face of this remarkable scientific and clinical progress that a small number of individuals and groups persist in questioning its legitimacy."The APA represents nearly 36,000 physicians specialising in the diagnosis and treatment of mental illness.Tom Cruise this week took the delivery service to a whole new level. Celebrating his 43rd birthday with numerous guests at a party in the USA, Cruise decided to call up his three favorite chefs, all living in Italy, to prepare a meal. Cruise decided to fly all three chefs out to the United States at a cost of €14,500. According to the Daily Mail the chefs cooked the celebrity tagliatelle ragu, veal, and chocolate tiramisu.The Church of Scientology "cease and desist" order isssued last month to the New Zealand owner of a Tom Cruise parody website called scienTOMogy demanded they shut down the site, and transfer ownership to the Church, or face a lawsuit of up to $100,000. The website responded on Saturday by stating, "Their claims are completely frivolous" and that "scienTOMogy.info is a parody site showing the recent lunacy of Tom Cruise—confusion of any kind with their site is literally impossible… We're keeping our domain… see you in court."On September 14, the Church's law firm, Moxon & Kobrin, responded via email that the scienTOMogy website domain was an infringement of their trademark that would cause a "likelihood of confusion" with their own, and thereby broke federal law. Specifically, the Church cited the Lanham Act, 15 U.S.C. � 1125(a).The Lanham Act contains the federal statutes governing trademark law in the United States. The Church would have to prove factors such as "proof of actual confusion", "product types, proximity and marketing", "their respective appearance and meanings", and "(bad) intention behind selecting the mark".Glen Stollery, the website's owner hit back at the Church by stating, "We have researched this and believe their claims are completely without merit. The church can provide no proof as to any confusion regarding the sites. For instance, scientology.info does not even exist, so compared to scienTOMogy.info it is hardly a matter of someone hitting the wrong key. We also have a Full Disclaimer at the top of the front page and in the website's meta-tags stating that there is no connection between ourselves and the church. Not to mention the fact that the site is completely non-commercial in nature, and does not generate a single cent of revenue nor offers any services of any kind. It is a parody site showing the recent lunacy of Tom Cruise—confusion of any kind with their site is literally impossible."  Stollery continues "The non-commercial use of a trademark as the domain name of a website—the subject of which is consumer commentary about the products and services represented by the mark—does not constitute infringement under the Lanham Act." Bosley Medical Institute v. Kremer (9th Cir., Apr. 4, 2005). In this instance, we are even one step further removed as their trademark is "scientology" not "scienTOMogy" Their claims are completely frivolous."If this is the case then it would not be the first time the law firm would be found guilty of filing frivolous complaints. In 1994, Helena Kobrin of Moxon & Kobrin, counsel for the Church of Scientology, was ordered to pay sanctions in the total sum of $17,775 for filing a frivolous complaint in federal court. Stollery states on his website that he believes this is simply a way of "scaring any critics into instantly backing down at the prospect of costly lawsuits regardless of their innocence." In closing he says to the church "I'm calling your bluff. File your lawsuit we're keeping our domain… see you in court"Two days before Tom Cruise: An Unauthorized Biography, a biography of actor Tom Cruise written by journalist Andrew Morton, was released in the United States, a video showing Cruise promoting Scientology was leaked to the Internet.  The promotional video appeared on video-sharing sites including YouTube, Gawker.com and radar online.com, and clips from the video were also shown on Wednesday morning talk shows in the United States.  In the 9-minute video produced by the Church of Scientology, Cruise is seen discussing his beliefs while the theme from his Mission: Impossible films plays as background music. Cruise appears wearing a black turtleneck sweater, speaking about his dedication to changing people's lives.  The format of the video appears to be an interview with Cruise, and it is edited with questions cut out.  Some of Cruise's responses end abruptly.Throughout the video, Cruise uses Scientology jargon terms such as "KSW": "For me, it’s all about KSW."  The term stands for Keeping Scientology Working, which refers to a 10-point letter written by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard in 1965 to ensure the organization's survival.  Cruise also discusses "SPs", or Suppressive Persons, "PTSPs", a "potential trouble source" influenced by a Suppressive Person, and the need to "confront and shatter suppression".Cruise makes assertions about programs which use Hubbard's teachings such as Criminon and Narconon "We're the authorities on getting people off drugs. We're the authorities on the mind. We're the authorities on improving conditions. We can rehabilitate criminals. Way to happiness. We can bring peace and unite cultures."  Of the manner in which he wishes to spread Scientology's message, he says "You're in the playing field or out of the arena."  Cruise also expresses his disdain for psychiatrists, "Crush these guys [psychiatrists]! I've had it! Psychiatry doesn't work. No mercy! None! Go to guns!"The video concludes with Cruise laughing, and then a voiceover says: "Scientology can be defined by a single question: would you want others to develop the knowledge you have? In answering that question, Tom Cruise has introduced LRH [L. Ron Hubbard] technology to more than 1 billion people on earth. And that is only the first wave he has unleashed. That is why the story of Tom Cruise, Scientologist, has only just begun." According to Reuters, the Church of Scientology stated that the video was shown at a 2004 meeting of the International Association of Scientologists.  In a statement, the Church of Scientology said that the video was Cruise's acceptance speech after he had been given the organization's "Freedom Medal", and was shown "before an audience of 5,000 church parishioners and their guests."  The statement also called the video that appeared on the Internet a "pirated and edited version."  A representative for Cruise confirmed the Church of Scientology statement: "The video is of Mr. Cruise making an acceptance speech to fellow parishioners at a private church event in 2004."  David Miscavige, head of the Church of Scientology, had presented Cruise with the "Freedom Medal of Valor" at the 2004 ceremony. Eighty Scientologists have received the "Freedom Medal" since the award's establishment in 1985, but Cruise is the only recipient of the Freedom Medal of Valor.  Andrew Morton's Tom Cruise: An Unauthorized Biography characterizes Cruise as the second most powerful individual within the organization.The video first appeared on the Internet on Sunday, and disappeared after the footage was linked to from Gawker.com and The Huffington Post.  Gawker.com posted a copy of the video Tuesday morning, and said that the video had "been passed around privately by reporters and writers investigating Cruise's ties to Scientology."  Gawker.com noted that a smaller video clip which had previously been available on YouTube "is no longer available, most likely after the Church of Scientology sent in a copyright infringement notice."  Gawker.com has stated that the video will stay up on its site, and has reprinted correspondence with Ava Paquette, an attorney with Moxon & Kobrin, a law firm representing the Church of Scientology.  Nick Denton of Gawker.com commented on the posting of the video "It's newsworthy, and we will not be removing it."Investigative journalist Mark Ebner is helping to post more than two hours of additional footage related to the Cruise video, and called it "the most unintentionally hilarious footage you've ever seen," and characterized it as "better than" when Cruise jumped on Oprah's couch during a May 23, 2005 appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show, and the South Park parody of Cruise in the controversial episode "Trapped in the Closet".  Ebner appeared on The Today Show on Wednesday, and discussed the video's appearance on the Internet.  In response, the Church of Scientology called Ebner a "fraud".  Ebner told the New York Daily News that "These tapes were made for purposes of recruitment."Attempts by the Church of Scientology to stop distribution of the video via the Internet "seem to have backfired spectacularly," according to The Press Association, and by Thursday the video was viewable on websites other than Gawker.com, including the New York Post, Independent Television News and the BBC.  For websites based in Britain usage of the video is protected under copyright laws, specifically for reporting news and current affairs.  Still other reports on the video linked to locations where it could be watched, including a report in The Times.  Copies of the video were not available on Google Video on Thursday, but were still available on YouTube.Attorney Mark Stephens of London-based firm Finers Stephens Innocent commented on the Church of Scientology's attempts to remove the video from the Internet: "The Scientologists, by taking action to enforce their copyrights, have made it a news story. The mistake was not to foresee that a news story has special protection in copyright law in reporting news and current events."Producers of the film Superhero Movie, out today, released clips from the film on the Internet parodying a Church of Scientology promotional video featuring Scientologist Tom Cruise. Superhero Movie is written and directed by Scott Mazin, director of the 2000 comedy about superheroes The Specials. The film stars Drake Bell, Sara Paxton, Christopher McDonald, Pamela Anderson, Tracy Morgan, Regina Hall, Craig Bierko, Simon Rex, Leslie Nielsen, Marion Ross, Kevin Hart, Jeffrey Tambor, Ryan Hansen, Brent Spiner and Keith David. Drake Bell plays Rick Riker, a young man figuring out how to use his superpowers. The film parodies blockbuster superhero movies including Spider-Man, Batman, X-Men, and Fantastic Four.In the original Scientology video, Cruise discusses his faith and his opinion on what it means to be a Scientologist, while the theme music from his Mission: Impossible series of films plays in the background. The video, which was not intended for public distribution outside of the Church of Scientology, is nine minutes long and contains heavy use of Scientology terminology. The video appeared on YouTube January 15, two days before the release of a biography on Cruise by Andrew Morton: Tom Cruise: An Unauthorized Biography. The Church of Scientology sent legal letters to YouTube and to Gawker.com, sites which were hosting the Cruise video at the time, and requested that they take it down. YouTube complied, but Gawker.com did not, and Nick Denton of Gawker.com commented: "It's newsworthy, and we will not be removing it." The video later appeared on websites other than Gawker.com, including the New York Post, Independent Television News and the BBC. Attempts by the Church of Scientology to remove the video from the Internet motivated an Internet-based group known as "Anonymous" to take action in a movement called Project Chanology. Members of Anonymous bombarded Scientology websites and were successful in taking some of them down, including Scientology.org. Anonymous later changed tactics towards legal measures, and held international protests against Scientology on February 10 and March 15, with another international protest planned for April 12. According to Scientology critic David S. Touretzky, the Scientology terms used in the video by Cruise have "entered the national lexicon", and the Scientology video itself has become something of an Internet phenomenon. Touretzky also referred to the negative effect on Cruise's publicity as a consequence of the leak.In the excerpt released online from Superhero Movie, actor Miles Fisher imitates Cruise in what Liz Shannon Miller of NewTeeVee described as "an eerily dead-on impersonation of Cruise’s infamous leaked Scientology indoctrination video". She also compared the clip to a different spoof of the Cruise video, by actor Jerry O'Connell. Craig Ferguson also spoofed the video in a clip on his show on CBS, The Late Late Show, as did the comedy website Super Deluxe.Christopher McDonald plays the villain "Hourglass" in Superhero Movie, and told MTV News he was surprised at some of the parodies that successfully appear in the film: "The thing I didn't think we'd get away with was the actual Tom Cruise stuff.  There may be lawsuits there."A post at Slashfilm wrote positively of Fisher's performance: "Slashfilm would like to salute young actor and Harvard alum Miles Fisher for easily giving the best impression of Tom Cruise we’ve ever seen in the yuk-yuk comic book spoof." A post at MoviesOnline commented: "The actor hits every point he needs to and it is almost scary how close he is to the actual Tom Cruise way of thinking."  Thomas Leupp of ReelzChannel.com called the scene "a dead-on spoof of Tom Cruise's now-infamous Scientology video". Ryan Parsons of CanMag wrote that Fisher impersonates Cruise "perfectly", and Ryan Tate of Gawker.com called the clip "the slickest crazy-Cruise imitation yet, as well as one of the funniest".Archaeologists have discovered a tomb, referred to as KV63, in Egypt's Valley of the Kings. It is the first such discovery since Howard Carter's 1922 discovery of Tutankhamun's tomb. The discovery was made by a team from the University of Memphis. Zahi Hawass, head of the Supreme Council of Antiquities said in a statement that five intact sarcophagi that all contained mummies and 20 large storage jars that were sealed with pharaonic seals had been recovered.American archaeologist Kent Weeks, who was not part of the team but had seen photographs of the site, told the Associated Press that "It could be the tomb of a king's wife or son, or of a priest or court official". The find refutes the long held belief that the Valley of the Kings has little left to discover. According to Weeks: "It's ironic. A century ago, people said the Valley of the Kings is exhausted, there's nothing left," he said. "Suddenly Carter found Tutankhamun. So then they said, 'Now there's nothing to find.' Then we found KV5. Now we have KV63."KV63 is located in the area between KV10 (Amenmesse) and KV62 (Tutankhamun), in the very centre of the Valley's eastern branch and near the main crossroads of the network of paths traversed by thousands of tourists every day. The tomb was found at a depth of some three metres beneath the ground. The burial site is believed to date from the latter portion of the 18th dynasty (ca. 14th century BC), but the occupants have not yet been identified.Last Friday, former British Prime Minister Tony Blair debated the role of religion with atheist author and journalist Christopher Hitchens at the Roy Thompson Hall in Toronto, Canada. Organised under the auspices of the 'Munk Debates', the motion was: "That religion is a force for good in the world".Hitchens argued that religion is "a cruel experiment whereby we are created sick and ordered to be well" and that the omnipresent, omniscient God supposed by many world religions was "a celestial dictatorship, a kind of divine North Korea".Blair — who in 2008 established the Tony Blair Faith Foundation — conceded whilst religion is not necessary for everybody to act morally, it was still helpful for many despite violent interpretations of texts by extremists. He said the world religions unite in a moral mission to, "do unto others as you would have them do unto you", describing "a spiritual presence, bigger, more important, more meaningful than just us alone, that has its own power separate from our power, and that even as the world's marvels multiply, makes us kneel in humility not swagger in pride."Continuing, Blair stated: "If faith is seen in this way, science and religion are not incompatible, destined to fight each other, until eventually the cool reason of science extinguishes the fanatical flames of religion."Hitchens listed numerous aspects of religion he thought were negative, arguing "is it good for the world to appeal to our credulity and not to our scepticism? Is it good for the world to worship a deity that takes sides in wars and human affairs? To appeal to our fear and to our guilt, is it good for the world? To our terror, our terror of death, is it good to appeal?"Pressing his points, Hitchens asserted: "To preach guilt and shame about the sexual act and the sexual relationship, is this good for the world? And asking yourself all the while, are these really religious responsibilities, as I maintain they are? To terrify children with the image of hell and eternal punishment, not just of themselves, but their parents and those they love. Perhaps worst of all, to consider women an inferior creation, is that good for the world, and can you name me a religion that has not done that?"Blair responded, "I don't think we should think that because you can point to examples of prejudice in the name of religion, that bigotry and prejudice and wrongdoing are wholly owned subsidiaries of religion."Before the debate, the audience opposed the motion 57% to 22% (21% undecided). Post-debate, the motion was opposed by 68% of the audience and supported by 23%.Tony Snow, former White House Press Secretary for American President George W. Bush and the first anchor of Fox News Sunday, has died from cancer at the age of 53. Snow is survived by his wife Jill Ellen Walker, their son Robbie, and their daughters Kendell and Christie. Snow died at 2 a.m. Eastern Time today at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, D.C..Robert Anthony Snow, more commonly known as Tony Snow, was born June 1, 1955, in Berea, Kentucky, the son of a teacher and nurse. He began as an editorial writer for the Greensboro Record, and then served as an editor for the Newport News Daily Press in Virginia, the Detroit News and the Washington Times.  Afterward, Snow became a nationally syndicated columnist, before becoming the director of speechwriting for President George H.W. Bush. Snow then joined Fox News in 1996 as the first anchor of Fox News Sunday, hosted another Fox program Weekend Live and a radio program, The Tony Snow Show until 2006. He sometimes filled in for radio host Rush Limbaugh.Snow had his colon removed and underwent six months of chemotherapy for cancer in 2005. Snow became the third Press Secretary for George W. Bush in 2006. As Snow continued to serve at the White House, in 2007, he announced his cancer had recurred and spread to his liver. He resigned a few weeks later and was replaced by his deputy Dana Perino. After taking some time off, he joined CNN as a conservative commentator early this year.Anthony Wilson, journalist and record label owner, died of a heart attack on the 10th August, after receiving treatment for cancer.He died at the Christie Hospital, aged 57 and is survived by his partner, Yvette Livesey. Wilson was receiving private medical treatment due to the recommended drug, Sunitinib, not being available through the publicly funded National Health Service. Wilson's treatment was being funded by former music industry friends.While it was just a joke, the Federación Nacional de Cafeteros de Colombia doesn't find a recent "Mother Goose and Grimm" comic terribly funny.In what the coffee growers association calls "an attack on national dignity and the reputation of Colombian coffee," the characters in a comic strip by Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist Mike Peters call into question the relationship of Colombian coffee growers and the crime syndicates of Columbia.The cartoonist is being sued not only for "damages [to] the intellectual heritage" of the coffee, but also "moral compensation. A public manifestation," to the tune of $20 million.At the start of a week-long series of strips, a dog character named "Ralph" finds out that part of chemist and food storage technician Fred Baur's remains was buried in a Pringles can, upon his last wishes. Baur's best known innovation, among multiple, was the patented can and packing method for the Pringles potato chip. The character theorizes what other remains might be interred in their food packaging. Eventually, the dog states that "when they say there's a little bit of Juan Valdez in every can, maybe they're not kidding."This play on an old advertising slogan refers to fictional character Juan Valdez, created by the Federación Nacional.In a statement Peters says:Julio Cesar Gonzalez, El Tiempo newspaper's famous cartoonist, told the BBC that the lawsuit is "a real waste of time."In 2006, the Federación Nacional sued Café Britt over their advertising campaign titled "Juan Valdez drinks Costa Rican coffee. In a counter-suit, Britt presented an affidavit from a Costa Rican man named "Juan Valdez", acknowledging that he drinks Costa Rican coffee, and that the name is too generic to be exclusive. A variety of legal challenges and charges from both sides were eventually dropped. The phrase was actually first used in a 1999 speech by Jaime Daremblum, then-Costa Rican ambassador to the United States.Mother Goose and Grimm appears in over 800 newspapers worldwide; Peters has won the Pulitzer for his editorial cartoons for the Dayton Daily News. Thirty years ago, his editorial cartoon about electricity prices featured Reddy Kilowatt, an electricity generation spokescharacter. The Daily News defended that comic image in the United States Supreme Court, winning on the basis that "the symbol was not selling a product", and thus the satire was legally permissible.Peters drinks Colombian coffee.The new "coffee table book" The Top 100 Canadian Albums has been released. Bob Mersereau, a reporter for CBC New Brunswick, wrote the book filled with albums from year's including 1967, the 1980s, and modern day.The book is selling for CAD$35 and is 200 pages. It also contains in-depth interviews, photographs, facts, and descriptions on all the albums that were included in the list.Harvest by legendary Canadian singer-songwriter Neil Young claimed number one. While Blue by Joni Mitchell came in second."There really isn't a good reference for Canadian albums. You look at the Rolling Stone book, and there's Neil, Joni, Leonard (Cohen), the Band and Alanis, and that's it. And there's so many more that only we get, as Canadians. Outside of Canada, Gordon Lightfoot gets trashed as this MOR singer, and they don’t get why we’d want to hear someone sing about pussy willows, cattails, soft winds and roses," Mersereau commented.Mersereau will write about his book tour on his publisher Goose Lane Editions' blog. He says he would be "shocked if there wasn't complaints and arguments and debates.""It's all subjective, but that's part of the fun. Everybody has a complaint about the list, and there's this ongoing debate, but the fact is they're talking about it and thinking about it and going, 'Gee, I wish . . .'"About 600 people from all over Canada who are interested in music, are music journalists, work in the music business, or are musicians themselves and more voted for the one's they thought were the best."The important part is to talk about Canadian music and enjoy it."Actor John Barrowman escaped serious injury in a 80mph crash while filming a segment for TV show Fifth Gear in Powys, Wales.  One of the show's presenters, Tiff Needell, was in the passenger seat at the time of the accident.Barrowman, whose character in the BBC series Torchwood is unable to die, lost control of the Subaru before plunging down an embankment. The car flipped four times before coming to a rest, narrowly avoiding landing in a lake.Paramedics at the scene managed to pull the two stars out of the car, having to remove glass from Barrowman's eye and later taking him to hospital.Three years ago, Richard Hammond, presenter of rival show Top Gear, was involved in a 288mph crash while filming a piece for the show.Prime Minister Stephen Harper did not attend the 16th International AIDS Conference in Toronto. This is now drawing criticism from event organizers.Harper said earlier when he was in the Canadian federal election, 2006, that he was not going to attend the AIDS conference. It is not known why he didn't want to attend."We are dismayed that the prime minister of Canada, Mr. Stephen Harper, is not here this evening," Dr. Mark Wainberg said at the Rogers Centre on yesterday. "Mr. Harper, the role of prime minister includes the responsibility to show leadership on the world stage. Your absence sends a message that you do not regard HIV/AIDS as a critical priority and clearly all of us here tonight disagree with you,” Wainberg said. Wainberg was one of the first to speak and criticized the prime minister for missing the event.Harper instead chose to tour the Arctic aboard a naval ship. He received many boos from the audience at the mention of his name, including a remark by Richard Gere (an American actor and a speaker at the event).  A group near the stage stood up and chanted "Where is Harper?"Canada's health minister Tony Clement defended the prime minister's absence, saying it doesn't mean a lack of commitment in the fight against AIDS.Tony Clement said the federal government has adequate representation at the international conference and it is committed to helping people around the world through an access-to-medicine program.Starting at 5:00 a.m., nearly two-thousand Torontonians started gathering to kick up their heels.A promotion for The Rockettes Radio City Christmas Spectacular, which will be playing in Toronto throughout the holiday season, a chorus line of either 1,681 or 1,715 Toronto residents was formed. To break the record, the group successfully danced for five minutes non-stop.The media has had conflicting reports about the number of kickers. The events organizers, Citytv program Breakfast Television, reported 1,249, while the Canadian Press suggested 1,681, and the Toronto Star counted 1,715. No matter the number, it beat the previous record of 1,151.Carey Low of Guinness certified the record, and says it is very likely the record attempt will be included in the next publication of the Guinness World Records book.Among those participating were Toronto mayoral candidate Steven LeDrew, 71-year-old Jack McKay and 72-year-old Dorothy McKay, both tap dancers, and Mississauga-resident Suresh Joachim, who personally holds 21 other Guinness records. Participant Jeanette Heller, 95-years-old, is the oldest living Rockette.The record's official title is "Longest Single Line of Dancers".Rockettes do 800 high kicks during every show, sometimes performing four shows a day.Toronto Comicon 2019 returned to its titular city from March 15 to 17, as one of the largest pop culture events in Canada. The popular event featured celebrity guests like actors Dan Fogler, Ron Perlman, John De Lancie, John Rhys-Davies, and Jaleel White, as well as comic artists, authors, and professional cosplayers. The event included a large show floor with hundreds of retailers and artists promoting their creations. Wikinews' Nicholas Moreau attended the event, taking photos of the various sights.John Rhys-Davies broke news when he revealed that a Sliders reboot is being considered. "Jerry [O'Connell] and I are talking to NBC at the moment. The basic problem is that no one knows who owns the rights". Their legal department had apparently been looking into the matter for two months, as of the convention weekend. Emma Caufield talked of being cast in an NBC television pilot while a recurring guest actor on Buffy the Vampire Slayer. Faced with loosing the character of Anya Jenkins, the producers finally committed to making her a regular. "It was a good day," she recalls.Special effects costumer Ian Campbell, whose screen credits include Star Trek: Discovery, had a booth at the convention displaying his prop replicas and cosplay items. Amidst the bustle of activity, Campbell was working on a Thanos helmet sculpt. After the convention, he told Wikinews that "it can be tough to maintain focus with so many people streaming past and along questions, but sculpting in front of a crowd at conventions is great because it allows people to see the process that goes into what I do [...] it also can serve as inspiration to other to pursue their own artistic endeavors."Lisa Mancini has been cosplaying for two years, her "passion" for the hobby "stemmed through my love for Halloween." She typically chooses "to portray beloved characters from childhood or strong females. I also enjoy a good gender bent cosplay to ensure a touch of uniqueness!"Mancini told Wikinews after the event that the best part of cosplay is "bringing a character to life." One of the characters she took on this year was Squirrel Girl, a Marvel Comics character. Mancini has been described by the Daily Hive as a "squirrel whisperer", for the close affinity some of the animals have for her.Stephanie Chapman has knit a variety of knit outfits, an uncommon technique for cosplay. Prompted by Ron Perlman's visit, she wore a costume based on Hellboy character Abe Sapien, which lacks the eyeholes of her normal masks. With "Abe, I wanted to go for accuracy over comfort," Chapman told Wikinews, a choice leaving her largely helpless without a handler. The costume "is very warm [...] so I have to stay hydrated and try to keep as calm as possible. It's just really hard to stay calm when I meet someone like Ron Perlman". With the combination of excitement and "the stress I'm putting on my body", she shared that she was prone to meltdown in suit.Held from March 16 to 18, Toronto Comicon 2018, in Ontario, Canada, featured dozens of retailers, a large artist's alley, celebrity guests, cosplayers, and community groups. Wikinews was present and later spoke to some of the cosplayers.Celebrity guests included Joonas Suotamo, the new Chewbacca actor for Star Wars; Mitch Pileggi of The X-Files; Mara Wilson of Matilda); Eugene Brave Rock of Wonder Woman; Megan Follows of Anne of Green Gables, Reign); and Marina Sirtis of Star Trek: The Next Generation; among others.Many of the actors and artists were featured in Q&A sessions, including Follows, Brave Rock, and Hodor from Game of Thrones, Kristian Nairn.The 31st annual Toronto International Film Festival (TIFF) is starting tonight. The festival, runs until Sept. 16.  Hundreds of stars will be there. Including Reese Witherspoon, Brad Pitt, Russell Crowe and more."Even if the film isn't bought, it's just the industry [is] seeing your film, recognizing the name," festival director and CEO Piers Handling said. "Financiers, agents are all here. It's amazing the number of filmmakers who will get American agents out of being at the festival. Even a Canadian agent."The festival has a 352-film lineup, and includes selections from 61 countries, ranging from dramas and horror movies to documentaries, independent features and short films."Toronto offers the widest breadth of any of the major festivals," said Tom Ortenberg, president of Lionsgate Films.Filmmakers like Michael Moore, John Waters and John Cameron Mitchell will be among the participants of the festival's Maverick program, during which filmmakers discuss their latest works.Winnipeg filmmaker Guy Maddin will also screen his new silent film, The Brand Upon the Brain, with accompaniment from the Toronto Symphony Orchestra, two sound-effects artists, a narrator and a singer.The world premiere of Amazing Grace, based on the story of 18th-century British abolitionist, William Wilberforce, and his campaign to end the slave trade will be shown on the last day.Luckyrajah Paramanatha, known by his nickname "Lucky", claimed his $18 million Lotto 649 jackpot Tuesday.The previously purchased free play lottery ticket was bought at the Sunny Convenience Store on Eglinton Avenue East in Scarborough, Ontario (a suburb of Toronto). He checked them on March 19, the official draw date."I'm so happy," Paramanathan said. "I can't stop smiling...I started screaming. I never imagined I would win this much. I'm still shocked and overwhelmed."Paramanatha, 43, who lives in Scarborough, moved to Canada seven years ago and is a maintenance worker at a Toronto apartment building and cleans city swimming pools. He earns $48,000 a year from both jobs. Paramanatha said that he has been playing the lottery ever since he moved to get his wife and two sons, aged 7 and 10, from Sri Lanka to move to Canada."This win will allow me to bring my wife and two sons to Canada to start a new life," he said.He currently lives in an apartment building with his friend but plans later to buy a house with his family.Toronto's public utility, Toronto Hydro Telecom, will make Canada's largest city into a huge wireless hotspot."This is both an exciting and very important initiative for the city of Toronto", said Toronto's mayor, David Miller. "It puts us on the leading edge of the telecommunications industry nationwide and globally."Toronto Hydro Telecom will offer customers free access for the first six months. After that, it will begin to charge for services."Wi-Fi technology is the new benchmark for urban living", stated Toronto Hydro president David Dobbin. "It's standard equipment in many electronic devices, from laptops to portable entertainment units."Private telephone companies are questioning why a public utility needs to compete with the private sector.Mike Lee of Rogers Communications Inc. questioned why the city of Toronto wanted to enter the internet access business."It will not be an easy business", Lee told the National Post. "In this day and age, the focus should be on core operations more than anything. I was surprised to see they are looking to get into this business."Brian Sharwood, a telecom analyst in Toronto, said the municipality will likely install the wireless transmitters and receivers on its lamp posts as a way to blanket the city, a process known as "wireless mesh networking".Many thousands of anime and manga fans descended on the Toronto Congress Centre for Anime North, a fan-run convention launched in 1997. Spread between four venues over three days, May 24 to 26, the event featured J-pop maid idols, voice actors, writers, and more. Wikinews attended.Despite the ample indoor spaces, the parking lot of the Centre is also a hub of activity, with cosplayers posing for photos. Attendees were sent running for cover on Saturday, as heavy rains and a severe thunderstorm warning put a damper on festivities.The event is organized by a massive team of volunteers, and known for its specialized programming for fans, by fans. On the night of May 25, for example, attendees could catch "Pokemon Biology", "Kimono Obi Tying", and "Underappreciated Sports Anime/Manga."US voice actor Alexis Tipton marveled at the growth of the anime industry in the last decade. "Back when I was going as a fan, there wasn't as much anime, so it was easier to know about everything," Tipton observed during a question and answer session. "I'm so overwhelmed by how much there is."Tipton held a panel on her career, dubbing anime for US distribution company Funimation Entertainment. While many anime voice actors weren't fans going into the industry, Tipton recalled going to anime conventions with her friends during middle school and high school. Once she was an invited guest, Tipton recalls realizing "oh, I'm not here to just have fun, I'm here to work; I have a set schedule and I can't just, like, you know, go do what I want."Early in her career, Tipton was cast as a voice for My Bride is a Mermaid, a role that required singing. Then just 19 years old, she looked at the role as a "chance to face my demons," having questioned her abilities for years. "I was in an extremely competitive [singing musical theatre] program in high school. I had started working at Funimation when I was 19, so I was just barely in college. And so those scars were still like, really fresh. I had a lot of competition and people would find what your perceived weakness was, or what your actual weakness was in the program, and they would take advantage of it. And so I had people trying to make me feel like I couldn't sing my way out of a paper bag, and then I would get so nervous when I would sing that I couldn't support my notes, and so it would just prove them right."Tipton was devastated when she got a sinus infection, the week of the audition. "This director doesn't know me, I haven't worked with him, he's going to think that this is what I sound like," she recalls thinking. "I don't know if I had a shot to begin with, but now I really don't have a shot." She was thrilled when she was cast.Another voice actor, Lauren Landa, would list Sailor Neptune and Sailor Uranus as dream roles, when asked at conventions. She was given a chance to audition for the characters years later, when Vizmedia dubbed the first two seasons of Sailor Moon. When she was cast, "I swear to you, I was speechless," she told an audience at her Q&A session.Cosplay model and professional singer Jillea attended the Saturday of the convention dressed as Pokemon species Charizard. Wikinews spoke with her by email, after the event:((WN))  What got you into cosplay modelling?Jillea: My love for cosplay started with the community, what started as a fun hobby I would do periodically quickly became a huge part of my life, and the reason for that being how amazing the cosplay community embraced me and my work. I've always been a creative person, so getting to make my costumes and have people say 'oh my gosh, I love that character!!' got me hooked right away. They're just my people, what can I say, they really make me feel welcomed and I love them for it.((WN))  How did you choose Charizard?J: I'm a 90's baby so you could say I’m a bit of a Pokémon OG! I had a Game Boy as a kid and my very first purchase was Pokémon Red, solely based on how cool Charizard looked on the cover. Charizard has always been my favourite Pokémon and I can’t resist a challenging cosplay... and the nostalgia!((WN))  What was your favourite part of Anime North?J: This was my very first time attending Anime North and I was blown away! The booths were incredible and unique, every time I turned around I was seeing something different I've never seen at a convention before. Everything was easy to access and I even made use of the Cosplay Recharge station that literally saved the day with their hot glue! Extremely friendly environment it will not be my last time back for sure.Wikinews‍' Nick Moreau photographed the event.British Toshiba Transatlantic Challenge pilot, David Hempleman-Adams, successfully crossed the Atlantic and in doing so broke 5 world records. His helium gas balloon landed safely in the French countryside on Friday evening.The explorer is known for the grueling challenges he undertakes. Having created the "Adventurers' Grand Slam" in which he visited both geographical and magnetic poles and climbed the highest peaks in each of the seven continents, this is his latest undertaking.Monday saw Hempleman-Adams leave Newfoundland in his balloon. The successful crossing netted him the record for distance travelled in that size of balloon, although he battled with sleep deprivation in the latter stages of the journey.A short trailer for the movie Dark Floors, a horror starring Finnish theatrical hard rock band Lordi, has been released. The film, set in a hospital, follows a group of people left trapped by a broken lift as they are attacked by monsters, and focuses heavily on one particular patient, a little autistic girl.Dark Floors, acted in English by a largely Finnish cast, cost €4.2 million (approximately US$6 million) to make. It will make its full premiere in Finland on February 8, 2008, although advance screenings will begin this year.Lordi recently attended the Cannes Film Festival to promote the movie, where the band's lead vocalist and frontman described it as a "traditional modern horror" and promised "horrific scenes."A short trailer for the new Exorcist movie has been released.A permanent memorial for the victims of the July 7, 2005 London bombings has been unveiled in Hyde Park, London, England. Today is the fourth anniversary of the bombings, when 52 people were killed by suicide bombers on board three Underground trains and a bus.52 stainless steel columns standing 3.5m (11.5ft) tall were inaugurated in the presence of Prince Charles, the Duchess of Cornwall Camilla Bowles, Prime Minister Gordon Brown, London Mayor Boris Johnson and Minister for London, Tessa Jowell.Each column represented "a unique person and a unique grief" according to the Minister for London. Jowell continued, "Each one casts a shadow just as they do - each one standing tall and proud just as they did, and each one will in an individual way absorb and reflect light just as they did."A 1.4 tonne stainless steel plaque with the names of the people killed was also unveiled.Prince Charles laid a wreath on behalf of the nation. The Duchess of Cornwall left a floral tribute for the families of the victims.The families themselves laid roses and then met the prince and the duchess.Trinidad's Ian Alleyene, host of TV6's Crime Watch, has been released on bail. He spent the weekend in custody after being charged under the Sexual Offences Act following television broadcasts allegedly showing a mentally ill teenage girl's rape.Arrested on April 20, Alleyne spent the weekend in a hospital and the night of April 23 in police custody. He is now free after a Port of Spain magistrate granted his release on TT$80,000 (About US$13,300). The case is adjourned until May 14, when the owner of the TV station, Caribbean Communications Network, is summonsed to also appear in court regarding the same broadcasts.The charges, filed just days before the statute of limitations expired, allege footage was thrice broadcast in October 2011 which allowed public identification of a rape victim. A fourth charge alleges Alleyne, who's lawyer says has no previous convictions, obstructed the police investigation.The fourth charge relates to an incident last week at Caribbean Communications Network's Independence Square premises in Port of Spain. Alleyne was ultimately arrested publicly but police claim they first asked him to attend a police station.Alleyne was taken to court early yesterday morning where he appeared before Chief Magistrate Marcia Ayers-Caesar in a hearing witnessed by journalists and his family. Thirty minutes after bail was granted he had posted it and was freed, meeting supporters protesting against the prosecution outside the courthouse."[I]f you go back to the genesis of this entire incident you will realise it is just a travesty of justice," he told the press. Walking through Port of Spain upon his release, he twice mounted tables to address following supporters. "They can lock me up for a month, they can lock me up for two months, but I will still come out and will continue my fight for you. As long as there is breath in my body, I will continue fighting for you, the poor people." During the hearing, court officials were accused by the magistrate of breaching procedure. Alleyne had been taken directly into the court before it had opened, and was fed breakfast there. Superintendent of the Court and Process Branch Kenneth Cordner promised to "hold some training sessions to ensure that the officers fully understand their roles" and called the incident "upsetting." Director of Public Prosecutions Roger Gaspard warned local media yesterday not to prejudice any trial, noting the high public interest in the case. Gaspard said doing so would "would constitute an unwelcome and unfortunate interference with the due administration of justice and may properly provide a sufficient basis upon which a citation for contempt may be fastened."Also yesterday, Alleyne took to the studio and returned to his position hosting Crime Watch. He denies all charges.Ian Alleyne, host of Trinidad TV show Crime Watch, has been charged with crimes under the Sexual Offences Act after a tape purporting to show a mentally ill teenage girl being raped was allegedly broadcast last year. The footage allegedly was on-air thrice last October and triggered multiple complaints to police. Caribbean Communications Network's (CCN's) channel TV6 is jointly charged under the same act as Alleyne, as well as under the Telecommunications Act. Summonses were served at their Port of Spain headquarters. Alleyne was placed in custody in the same city.Alleyne has been hospitalised following his arrest, owing to chest pains. He is due to go before a magistrate, and cannot receive bail until he does so. He is also charged with obstructing police. Police had visited CCN offices in Port of Spain twice last year seeking the tape.Alleyne issued a message to The Trinidad Express criticising the decision not to grant him bail until he appears in court. He said it "is really a sad state of affairs on the part of the police. What have I done that they have seen it fit to ensure that I'm only granted bail before a magistrate?"Business mogul and television personality Donald Trump spoke at the annual Faith and Freedom Coalition conference in Washington, D.C. last Friday, criticizing heavy media bias towards US President Barack Obama. Trump especially highlighted the lack of media attention after Obama made two gaffes during his recent state visit to the UK in May. Obama signed a guestbook and dated it 2008, instead of 2011. Also, during a state banquet held at Buckingham Palace, Obama spoke over the British national anthem, "God Save the Queen", as he toasted Queen Elizabeth II. Footage of the banquet shows Her Majesty speaking first, then proposing a toast to the people of the United States, the President, and Mrs. Obama. The guests rise from their seats and stand at attention as the US national anthem plays. The President is seen doing a civilian salute during the anthem. The President speaks, and proposes a toast to the Queen. He says "To Her Majesty the Queen" too early in his speech, however, prompting the band to play the British national anthem. Nonetheless, he continues to speak over the music. When he finishes speaking, the anthem is still playing, but he turns and raises his glass to the Queen. The Queen remains standing at attention, not accepting Obama's toast, and Obama lowers his glass. Everyone finally raises their glasses in a toast once the band finishes playing the anthem.British Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said of the anthem blunder, "I thought you did exactly the right thing." The press also has seemed to focus less on the gaffe, and more on Obama strengthening US-UK relations. "I said to myself, 'I wonder what would have happened if George Bush signed it May of '08? I wonder if almost anybody was three years off,'" Trump said.Trump also criticized the President's fiscal policies, especially high gas prices, rising unemployment, and the national debt. He was speaking at a two-day forum, named the Faith and Freedom Conference and Strategy Briefing, along with possible candidates for the Republican nomination for President next year. Although he announced last month that he will not seek the Republican nomination, he has still left open the possibility of running as an independent candidate.Former Tubes and Grateful Dead keyboardist/vocalist Vince Welnick is dead of a "probable suicide", according to the Sonoma County Sheriff/Coroner.Welnick was found dead in his home in Forestville, California, on June 2, 2006. His cause of death is not being released at the family's request, says Coroner's Sgt. Will Wallman.The 55-year-old musician began his professional career in his native Phoenix, Arizona, putting together a garage band called The Beans. The group moved to San Francisco in 1969 and changed its name to The Tubes, eventually releasing eight albums. Welnick was picked in 1990 to succeed the late Brent Mydland as The Grateful Dead keyboardist, and eventually moved on to solo projects. He was later elected to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.Welnick is survived by his wife, Lori.Sunday, January 24, 2010 Air America, the progressive talk radio network founded in 2004 that focused on and syndicated progressive and liberal commentators and issues and was intended to be an opposite to conservative talk radio has ceased broadcasting and intends to file for Chapter 7 liquidation bankruptcy.A statement has been posted on Air America's website, by the chairman of Air America Media, Charlie Kireker. The statement read, "It is with the greatest regret, on behalf of our Board, that we must announce that Air America Media is ceasing its live programming operations as of this afternoon, and that the Company will file soon under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code to carry out an orderly winding-down of the business."The statement pointed out the current economic situation saying, The very difficult economic environment has had a significant impact on Air America's business. This past year has seen a "perfect storm" in the media industry generally. National and local advertising revenues have fallen drastically, causing many media companies nationwide to fold or seek bankruptcy protection."Adding, "From large to small, recent bankruptcies like Citadel Broadcasting and closures like that of the industry's long-time trade publication Radio and Records have signaled that these are very difficult and rapidly changing times."However, Air America has had stability problems since it's founding 2004. This is not the first time the company behind the network has filed for bankruptcy. The company filed for Chapter 11 reorganizational bankruptcy in March 2006. The network has also suffered from turnover with executives and owners.The radio network, which had over 100 affiliated stations, hosted well-known personalities such as comedian Al Franken, who hosted The Al Franken Show, which was billed as the network's flagship program, from 2004 to 2007 when he left his show and the network to run for the United States Senate. The radio network has also brought other liberal commentators much exposure such as Rachel Maddow, who hosted The Rachel Maddow Show on the network. Maddow gained prominence when she started appearing on the cable news network MSNBC which eventually culminated in her receiving her own television show, aptly-named, The Rachel Maddow Show. Her radio show on Air America now most consists of audio from television show broadcast the night before. Other commentators on the network with their own shows consisted of Randi Rhodes, Thom Hartmann, Mike Malloy, Sam Seeder and most recently Montel Willams.Sam Seeder's response to the network's shutdown was, "The fact of the matter was, it was always a very challenging business proposition, and it never had the right management." He added, “Radio is a dying industry.” Seeder hosted programs on Air America up until last year.According to The New York Times, Maddow declined to comment and Senator Franken's office could not be reached. Other progressive talk hosts such as Ed Schultz and Stephanie Miller are unaffected by the shutdown because their shows and content are syndicated by other distributors and were never affiliated with Air America. Miller's executive producer, Chris Lavoie wrote on his Twitter page, "We’re NOT affected by the shutdown of Air America!" Many of the radio hosts featured on Air America will be unaffected because they have either left the network, or switched to a different company to syndicate their shows.Alan Colmes, a liberal commentator for the Fox News Channel wrote on his blog, "Its demise is, sadly, not a shock, but will certainly be misinterpreted and overstated by conservatives who love to pontificate about how liberals can’t make it in broadcasting and who will dance on Air America’s grave."Colmes continued saying, "I look at radio as a broadcaster, not as a liberal." He noted, "Their business model in larger markets was pay-for-play, an expensive proposition often without financial return. Because conservatives were so entrenched on heritage stations, the progressives on Air America were relegated to smaller, less powerful, under-performing signals that could not compete with their more established counterparts; certainly not without lots of promotion and time to develop, both of which were denied in most cases."Air America's statement closed by saying, "We are proud that Air America's mission lives on through the words and actions of so many former radio hosts who are active today in progressive causes and media nationwide. In the years ahead, as we look back, we should all be proud of our passionate determination to assure that our nation's progressive voice would be heard loud and clear. Through the hard work and dedication of current staff, and those who preceded you, a lasting legacy was forged which will now continue through other voices and venues."A miscommunication between the Tulsa Police Department in Oklahoma, US and a Tulsa TV reporter has led to a man dressed as "Pedobear" at the San Diego Comic Con being erroneously labeled as a "registered sex offender."A recent story about police departments warning parents to beware of an Internet joke called "Pedobear" took a dark turn on Tuesday, when a Tulsa television station alerted the public that a "registered sex offender" was dressing up as the mascot, and handing out candy to children at family-friendly events. "A registered sex offender was spotted dressed as a Japanese cartoon character called 'Pedobear'," reported the FOX 23 news broadcast that evening. "That happened in San Diego at a comics conference, at an event that attracts plenty of families."However, the report was incorrect, and the man escorted out of the San Diego Comic Con in July was not a registered sex offender at all. "I did say it to the reporter," admitted Tulsa Police Sgt. John Adams. "It was bad information, a miscommunication."Adams added, "We have the Tulsa State Fair coming up, and we wanted to let parents know about potential dangers."This report gave credence to the rapidly-spreading story of the menacing Pedobear, a satirical cartoon bear that has come to represent paedophilia on the Internet. According to some law enforcement agencies, Pedobear is being used by paedophiles to indicate their sexual interests to one another. They also assert that paedophiles may be dressing up as cute mascots, as a way to get close to children.These assertions have been widely ridiculed on the Internet. The Huffington Post wrote, "He isn't, in any way, a mascot or supporter for pedophilia."  The Internet meme originated on the website 4chan, where it was used to mock overly sexualized images of children. Often, an image of Pedobear was added to the offending posting, with the message, "Pedobear approves of this post."From there, the meme moved out onto the wider Internet, where it has been repeatedly used as a shorthand way of saying that people were being inappropriate about children. During the Roman Catholic Church's sex scandal, Pedobear was often used to mock the church. A Polish newspaper mistakenly ran an image of Pedobear alongside the 2010 Vancouver Olympics mascots, much to the delight of Internet jokesters.Police in California misunderstood the meaning of Pedobear, and the San Luis Obispo Sheriff's Department began warning parents in public information fliers that Pedobear was an indication of paedophiles nearby. The story  has become an Internet-wide sensation over the past few days, as in-the-know bloggers and reporters began to mercilessly ridicule the police department's actions in the name of protecting children.It "made them the laughing stock of the internet," reported UK tabloid The Daily Mail on Monday. Despite the overwhelming scorn heaped on the California law enforcement agencies on the Internet, the Tulsa, Oklahoma police department took the warning seriously, reissuing the public information warning, and mistakenly telling reporters that San Diego Comic Con Pedobear costume was being worn by a convicted "sex offender."The Tulsa Police Department and FOX News 23 have since issued retractions, but the warnings to watch out for Pedobear continue on other Tulsa-area media outlets.Finnish folk metal/viking metal band Turisas have released their first music video and second single, a cover version of the Boney M. 70s disco hit Rasputin.The Turisas version of the song was released as a single, on September 21 in Germany, to be followed by France, the United Kingdom and various other territories on September 24, Spain on September 25 and finally the band's native Finland on September 26.At each release, it will be available as a CD, which will feature the band's song Battle Metal, from the album of the same name as a B-side, and as a limited edition picture 7” vinyl record featuring In the Court of Jarisleif from the album The Varangian Way as a B-side.Band frontman Mathias "Warlord" Nygård explained the concept behind the video: "This video is pretty far from what you'd expect from a Turisas video - or any metal video for that matter! The idea to the video is just as wild as the cover song itself: a battle metal band covering a 70's disco hit. Just as the song, it is a crossover of the 70's kitsch attached to the Boney M. track, but performed by us as we do it. Director Vesa-Matti Vainio and the whole crew did a great job on this one and to me, this is a good pick for our first video ever. I assure you, there are plenty of ideas on epic spectacles to be looked into later.”He goes on to explain how the unusual cover came to be in the first place: "We've been begged to record Rasputin pretty much since we first played it live a couple of years back. It's amazing how popular this cover version of ours have become at our gigs during the last year and it really makes us feel like we must have done something right here looking at big crowds going totally mental over a 70's disco hit! I remember getting the idea for this cover years back - in 2001 I think. I was on a ferry trip between Finland and Sweden and there was this cover band performing 70's disco hits. The minute they blasted 'Rasputin' I knew, that at some point, we would need to do it in some form or another. It was just obvious that it would work amazingly well given a slightly more modern and heavier touch-up. Personally I've always preferred these old 70's disco bands".On Wednesday, as a part of his pre-election campaign, the Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan  pledged converting Hagia Sophia, formerly a Greek Orthodox church and now a museum, to a mosque, following the election today. He announced this change by live television on Wednesday and again verbally in a rally on Friday, despite criticism by the Greek foreign minister and United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) who questioned his authority to make the change.On Friday in Istanbul, as a part of an election rally,  Erdogan said, "After elections, we will change Hagia Sophia's name from museum to mosque[...] We have some plans and we are going to implement these plans." Earlier this week on Wednesday on the live television, President Erdogan said — as reported by Hurriyet Daily News — "Ayasofya [Haghia Sophia] will no longer be called a museum. Its status will change. We will call it a mosque".This Wednesday Greek Foreign Minister George Katrougalos emphasized the requirement of approval by UNESCO, saying "It [Haghia Sophia] is not only a great temple of Christendom — the largest for many centuries — it also belongs to humanity. It has been recognized by UNESCO, as part of our global cultural heritage. So any questioning of this status is not just an insult to the sentiments of Christians, it is an insult to the international community and international law", as quoted by Greek Reporter. In an interview with Sputnik News, UNESCO also said that this change would require its approval.This Thursday the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) also criticized the move, this time not only implying approval would be required, but also recommending to maintain the status of the monument as a museum. They released a statement which said, "Hagia Sophia bears profound historical and spiritual significance to Muslims and Christians alike, and its status as a museum must be maintained".On live television Erdogan also attacked the proclamation of Golan Heights as official Israeli territory by the President of the United States Donald Trump, which was made on Monday. This proclamation contradicted the United Nations' official position on status of the territory, which belonged to Syria and was occupied by Israel. Namely, President Erdogan said on Wednesday, "Those who remain silent when Masjid Al-Aqsa is attacked, trampled, its windows smashed, cannot tell us what to do about the status of Ayasofya[...] Unfortunately, Trump is behaving like a bully boy[...] How can you do this despite the United Nations? What are you doing? Being at the helm of a state like the U.S. does not give you such a right." Erdogan also said earlier he might rename the monument.  On the live television he said, "Constantinople will never exist again[...] The name of this area is Islambol [full of Islam] and you know that." UNESCO reportedly said a change of name of a world heritage site would required approval from the World Heritage Committee.UNESCO, a specialized agency of the United Nations, is based in Paris.Wikinews reported previously that after finding out that he will not have to service a troublesome brand of British-made planes, RJ-100, at the airport, Şükrü Can, the manager of Turkish Airlines (THY) maintenance service, slaughtered a camel right on the tarmac of Istanbul's Ataturk Airport.The Transportation Minister of Turkey, Mr. Binali Yıldırım commented yesterday (Dec 20th) on the incident in a parliament session, backing the slaughter of a camel by THY's personnel. He saidOrhan Pamuk, a prominent, post-modern writer whose work is translated into more than 40 languages, received the 2006 Nobel Prize in Literature.Pamuk was an admired writer in Turkey until the events in 2005, when lawyers of two Turkish professional associations brought criminal charges against him for "insulting Turkishness" after the author's controversial statements regarding the disputed Armenian Genocide of 1915–1917. He claimed, and repeated his claim, that  Even though the charges were dropped on January 22, 2006, his Nobel Prize reception continues to provoke mixed feelings of pride and anger among Turks. On the other hand, as Pamuk intended, the criminal case brought international attention to freedom of speech in Turkey.In his Nobel speech, he defined literature as: He talked about his father's strong influence on him, his own authenticity anxieties and identity crises as a Turkish writer, the global nature of literature, and the politics of writing:Turkmen President Saparmurat Niyazov has banned the playing of recorded music on television, at public events, and both public and private wedding ceremonies. Turkmenistan's official daily newspaper, Neitralny Turkmenistan, quotes President Niyazov as stating that the ban is intended to "protect true culture, including the musical and singing traditions of the Turkmen people." The office of the president said recorded music and lip synching has "a negative effect on the development of singing and musical art." In a cabinet meeting broadcast on national television, Niyazov said "Unfortunately, one can see on television old voiceless singers lip-synching their old songs. Don't kill talents by using lip synching... Create our new culture."President Niyazov has a history of regulating cultural influences in Turkmenistan. He has outlawed long hair or beards and capped teeth, required video monitors in all public places, and banned car radios and certain performing arts like opera and ballet, deeming them "unnecessary."After a long night of negotiations, United States television personality and seven-month host of The Tonight Show Conan O'Brien and his network, NBC, have reached a deal that would buy out the contracts of O'Brien and his staff for US$45 million and reinstate Jay Leno as the show's host starting March 1, O'Brien's manager told media on Thursday.  In this agreement, O'Brien will walk away with more than $33 million.  The rest will be distributed to his staff of over 200 people as severance payments.His manager went on to say that Friday will be O'Brien's last night serving as host.  O'Brien reportedly plans to have an official farewell show with American actors  Tom Hanks and Will Ferrell as guests, and with Canadian rock singer Neil Young as the closing musical performance. As pertains to O'Brien's next move, ABC has said that it is not interested in hiring him.  Fox, on the other hand, which lacks a late-night talk show, expressed "appreciation" for O'Brien's abilities—but for now nothing more.  Comedy Central has also been mentioned as a possible new network home for O'Brien.When asked about the issue by the Associated Press, a spokesman for O'Brien said he was currently "unavailable" to comment.David Letterman, host of the late night American television show Late Show with David Letterman, has married his girlfriend of 23 years, he told studio audience during a taping of his show on Monday.Letterman, 61, announced he and Regina Lasko, with whom he has a five-year old son, were wed in a courthouse ceremony in Choteau in Teton County, Montana last week, near the ranch they own together."They say, 'Well, why did it take you so long to get married?' and, of course, the answer honestly is we wanted to make sure we had the prenup just right," Letterman joked.Letterman and Lasko began their relationship in 1986. Their son, Harry, was present for the ceremony. The late night talk show host previously swore off marriage after his 1977 divorce with Michelle Cook."I secretly felt that men who were married admired me ... like I was the last of the real gunslingers," Letterman said during his Monday show, where he made the announcement shortly after congratulating Bruce Willis for getting married last week.Letterman told the audience he nearly missed the ceremony because his truck became stuck in mud two miles from their house. The ceremony was delayed one hour while Letterman walked back in 50 mile per hour winds to get his car."And the whole way, I'm thinking, 'See ... you try to get married and this is what happens,'" he said.The trailer for Joss Whedon’s new feature film, Serenity, is expected to be released today (Tuesday, April 26).  Joss Whedon, the creator of such prime time television successes as Buffy the Vampire Slayer and Angel, is promoting his latest movie with the official Serenity movie web site and a formal announcement.  Joss Whedon has also warned fans of the Firefly show to avoid viewing the trailer, as it may be a spoiler for the movie, and may ruin their enjoyment.This popular television writer and creator developed Serenity as a follow up to Firefly, a genre defining Sci-Fi-Western that has received critical acclaim among science fiction enthusiasts, but failed to capture the interest of the typical prime time viewer. Firefly debuted on the FOX network in September, 2002, but was quickly canceled after one season.  Serenity uses many of the same lead actors and characters as the original television series. In an interview with Firefly actor Alan Tudyk, Serenity is the first film in a three-picture Firefly contract with Universal Studios.At least twelve people have been killed today in a shooting at the Paris offices of the satirical weekly French magazine Charlie Hebdo. Three men in hoods armed with Kalashnikov rifles entered the magazine's office in the 11th arrondissement and shot dead ten journalists and two police officers before making a getaway in a car driven by a fourth collaborator. Five people have been seriously injured in the attack. A member of the police said after leaving the scene the attackers drove to the northeastern suburbs of Paris where they abandoned their vehicle and hijacked another car.French police union Unité spokesman Rocco Contento said of the crime scene, "it was a real butchery". The French Government have raised the country's security level to the maximum. President François Hollande told reporters: "This is a terrorist attack, there is no doubt about it".The French news website 20minutes.fr is reporting one eyewitness claimed that as the attackers approached the magazine's office, they shouted: "you say to the media that it is al-Qaeda in Yemen" ((fr))French language: ‍vous direz aux médias que c'est Al-Qaïda au Yémen.Gerard Biard, the editor-in-chief of Charlie Hebdo, stated: "I don't understand how people can attack a newspaper with heavy weapons. A newspaper is not a weapon of war." The magazine recently posted a cartoon on Twitter depicting Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, a leader of the Islamic State militant group.US President Barack Obama gave a statement condemning the attack: "France is America’s oldest ally, and has stood shoulder to shoulder with the United States in the fight against terrorists who threaten our shared security and the world. Time and again, the French people have stood up for the universal values that generations of our people have defended." Obama also said that the US would provide assistance "to help bring these terrorists to justice".British Prime Minister David Cameron tweeted: "The murders in Paris are sickening. We stand with the French people in the fight against terror and defending the freedom of the press."The Arab League and the Cairo-based Al-Azhar University have also condemned the attack.In 2006, Charlie Hebdo ran the cartoons depicting Muhammad that originally appeared in the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten. In 2011, it published another cartoon depiction of Muhammed subtitled "Charia Hebdo", a pun on sharia. The magazine's office was subsequently firebombed. Following the bombing, the magazine's website was hacked and death threats were made against their staff. The magazine responded by publishing on their front page an image showing both the remains of the magazine's offices and one of their cartoonists kissing a bearded Muslim man. The cover contained the headline "Love is stronger than hate" ((fr))French language: ‍L'Amour plus fort que la haine.The Pakistani government has temporarily blocked social networking website Twitter in relation to posts on the site promoting a Facebook contest involving drawings of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. The block was reportedly lifted after a few hours Sunday.Pakistan Telecommunication Authority chairman Muhammad Yaseen confirmed that the agency had managed to persuade social networking site Facebook to remove the postings from their site but said about Twitter: "We have been negotiating with them until [Saturday night], but they did not agree to remove the stuff, so we had to block it". During the imposition of the block, Mohammad Younis Khan, a spokesperson for the agency, explained that while Facebook had "agreed to remove the stuff", Twitter was "not responding to us." The "blasphemous material" was placed by those organising the competition on Facebook in an attempt "to hurt Muslim feelings", according to Khan, who confirmed Sunday Twitter service had "been restored" on the orders given to the agency, although he did not know of any reason why this order had been made.Facebook has confirmed that material on its website had been made unavailable in Pakistan at the request of authorities, with a spokesperson for the website explaining: "Out of respect for local laws, traditions and cultures, we may occasionally restrict [certain content's] visibility in the countries where it is illegal, as we have done in this case". Twitter has not made any comment other than to clarify that no modifications or removals of content occurred to ensure the site's restoration.Human rights organisation Human Rights Watch's Pakistan director Ali Dayan Hasan condemned the Twitter block as "ill-advised, counter-productive and will ultimately prove to be futile as all such attempts at censorship have proved to be", while former United States Department of State spokesperson Philip J. Crowley described the decision as "another sign of the civilian government's weakness".This incident bears resemblance to one which occurred two years ago Saturday, when a court order blocked Facebook in the country for around two weeks due to a page on the site, called "Everybody Draw Mohammed Day", asking users to upload caricatures of Muhammad. In the Islam faith, depicting any prophet is prohibited as it is regarded as blasphemy.Two men died and 83 were arrested at the New Jersey PNC Arts center, Holmdel the scene of this year's New Jersey Ozzfest, an annual travelling hard rock and heavy metal show. This year's Ozzfest includes Lordi, Static-X, Lamb of God and the show's namesake, Ozzy Osbourne.Raymond Guarino, 26, of Forked River, New Jersey collapsed at around 3:15 p.m. and went into cardiac arrest, following which he was resuscitated. He later died in a local hospital. It is believed his death was the result of his consumption of  cocaine, marijuana and alcohol. An autopsy will be conducted to confirm the cause of death.Patrick Norris, 24 of Coram collapsed around 10:00 p.m. and was transported to the same hospital in cardiac arrest; he was pronounced dead on arrival. Police believe he too had consumed a combination of cocaine, marijuana and alcohol.In addition, New Jersey police arrested 83 people on various drugs and alcohol charges, including underage drinking, as well as charges of drug possession, assault, resisting arrest, defiant trespass and lewd behavior. The arrests are the result of a crackdown started after 13 youths were hospitalised at the venue, the youngest being 11 years-old. The crowd at today's event was too large for the 17,000 seat venue to accommodate, due mainly to the decision to make Ozzfest a free event this year.The New Jersey Turnpike Authority, who owns the venue, has imposed a permanent ban on consuming alcohol in the car park of the site. Previously, patrons had been allowed to bring their own alcohol and consume it there.Police arrested over 90 people on Saturday at an O.A.R concert, and 54 on Friday during an Incubus show. A Velvet Revolver concert is scheduled for later tonight. Over 300 people have been arrested at the site this week.Two people have been found dead by police at Norway Rock Festival in Kvinesdal. They were on or near a bus that six to eight others were found outside and hospitalized. It is thought that the deaths were due to carbon monoxide poisoning."We do not know exactly how they died, but we assume they suffocated on fumes while they were on the bus," said a police spokesperson. The deceased are believed to have been an unmarried couple with three children, and all the victims are thought to be Norwegians aged in the 20s and 30s. No names have been released."It seems they all inhaled what could have been exhaust fumes," commented Enoksen. He added that the lives of the others are thought to be safe.The festival, established in 2006, continued as normal. Alice Cooper, Motörhead and The Quireboys were all performing at the event.File:Paramore rio.jpgTwo of the founding members of US rock band Paramore have quit. Brothers Josh and Zac Farro left the group after last Saturday's concert in Orlando, Florida. Front woman Hayley Williams announced that the brothers had told group members about their plans to leave two months before the Orlando concert.Williams published a statement on the bands official website. "For the last year it hasn't seemed as if they wanted to be around any more," she said. "We want Josh and Zac to do something that makes them happy and if that isn't here with us, then we support them finding happiness elsewhere."However the rock group have announced plans to stay together after the Farro brothers departure. Williams added: "We never for a second thought about leaving any of this behind. The three of us who are still here are ready to take on another chapter of our journey together ... Knowing that we have a unified passion and a clear vision makes us feel stronger than ever."The brothers had been with Paramore since the group founded in 2004. Zac played the drums while Josh was a guitarist. The group has received numerous accomplishments including a Grammy Award nomination.It has been reported recently by Blabbermouth and DotMusic.com that two fans of Finnish theatrical hard rock band Lordi were robbed at gunpoint on Friday in Louisville, Kentucky, United States and the band's manager as well as a bodyguard were shot at. No-one was injured.Following a gig in Louisville the band had split up, with three of the members going to a nearby bar for a drink. Lead vocalist Mr. Lordi, his wife, and keyboardist Awa had entered the tour bus, while manager Rikk Scholvinck and a bodyguard were escorting two fans towards the bus.According to those at the scene, a van pulled up next to the bus and several youths emerged, at least one of which was carrying a gun. Mr Lordi describes what happened next: "One of the men with a gun took a fan, a girl, put the gun to her head and forced her to lie down on the ground. Also one of the boys froze on the spot while the others fled away, including Rikk and the bodyguard while another man started shooting at them. Luckily he missed and no one was hurt. Rikk ran to the bar and called the police who arrived soon. In a moment we were surrounded by like five police cars but the guys managed to escape. They were a group of drug addicts that had stolen the car earlier that night, and police were already looking for them but have still not managed to catch them.""The girl that was held at gunpoint is obviously very shocked. We did our best to comfort and calm her down, but one can only wonder what could happen when people start running around with guns and even using them! It is a bit amusing that the boy fan was just happy he didn't lose the t-shirt he was wearing with all the autographs on it, even if they both lost everything else."Both the fans were given lifelong all access passes to Lordi concerts worldwide to compensate.Lordi has had previous altercations with criminals in the US. Earlier this year the bus the band was using for their tour as part of Ozzfest was hijacked with several of the technical crew on board. During the same tour, two other fans were also robbed. "This was like a deja vú of that, once again we were surrounded by police cars and their flashing lights," Mr Lordi commented.Two New Zealand men, Richard Stuart Hayes and Troy Jonathon Elliot, have been convicted of running an illegal mobile text based competition after 27 winners did not receive the car prizes. The pair were found guilty yesterday in a decision reached by Judge Nicola Mathers in Auckland District Court, following a February hearing.The two convicts, whose names were suppressed until yesterday, are the directors of the company which ran the 'TxtDrive' competition in March 2004, the Watch and Win Company. The company had hoped to gain a profit of NZ$2.5 million, but due to lack of interest and entrants they could not afford to honour the daily prizes as they had only raised $414,595."I am satisfied that the Department of Internal Affairs (DIA) has proved to me beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Hayes and Mr Elliot organised an illegal lottery. I consider they deliberately entered into the scheme and were careless as to the legality of this novel scheme." Judge Mathers said.During the 27-day competition, cellphone users had to send a $0.99 text message during television adverts on TV 2 for the opportunity to win a Peugeot car a day or free products from Pizza Hut.Settlements have been reached with the winners; only one received a car.Hayes and Elliot argued that it was not a lottery but a sales promotion, which means it didn't need to be licensed by the DIA.Mark Woolford, DIA lawyer, said "Internal Affairs had to prove that the Hayes and Elliot organised the competition, that it was a lottery under the definition of the Gaming and Lotteries Act 1977, and that it was not authorised as a lottery by Internal Affairs."A sales promotion is defined as "Any competition promoted by a manufacturer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer for the purpose of promoting the sale of goods or services." Judge Mathers said she was satisfied the TxtDrive competition was an illegal lottery.The two men are to appear back in court on 6 October, they face either a fine of $4,000 or three months in prison under the maximum penalties.Two museums in San Diego, California have been bequested an art collection worth more than $40 million. The art collection was donated by Dr. Vance E. Kondon and Elisabeth Giesberger to both the Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego and the San Diego Museum of Art. Kondon, a former board member of the Museum of Contemporary Art, died in 1997 and Giesberger died in 2011. Kondon was a notable art collector in San Diego, and collected for over 30 years. Roxana Velásquez, SDMA executive director, described their bequeathed collection's "rarity" and said the pieces would add "depth" to the two existing museum collections.The collection will be separated between the two museums due to the art movements represented within it. The Museum of Contemporary Art will receive 30 contemporary works by artists such as Franz Kline, Christo, and Craig Kauffman. The Museum of Art was bequeathed 48 German Expressionist paintings, drawings and prints. This collection includes artworks by Otto Dix, Gustav Klimt, and Egon Schiele.More than two thousand people assembled at the Las Terrazas beach in Pichilemu to create the message "Viva Chile: Bicentenario Cardenal Caro" (English: "Viva Chile: Bicentennial [in] Cardenal Caro") using their bodies.Julio Ibarra, the governor of Cardenal Caro, organized the event in two days, gathering people from schools, neighborhood councils, Huasos clubs, surfers, and policemen.People started to arrive at the beach at around 10:00 AM local time (1400 UTC). Ibarra said to Radio Universidad de Chile that "the objective of the activity was to create a post that will be distributed all around the world."Pichileminian Huasos created the sentence "Viva Chile," and other schools created letters of "Bicentenario" and "Cardenal Caro." Graciela Vargas Urzúa, teacher from Colegio Preciosa Sangre, said that "it was a beautiful experience that [she] had never seen before in Pichilemu."The pictures were taken by photographer Philip Muller, in an Army helicopter.One week after the eleventh-hour renewal of the American soap opera Days of our Lives, NBC, the network airing the series in the United States, has let it known that the renewal has come at a price, namely a lower one. As a result of further cost-cutting measures to keep the show afloat through September 2010, two of the longest-running actors on the serial have had their contracts severed.Deidre Hall and Drake Hogestyn, who have played the characters of Marlena Evans and John Black for decades, have taped their final episodes and have been officially released from their obligations at Days of our Lives. When contacted by Wikinews, Days publicist Daniela Mancinelli commented "Days of our Lives has decided to rest the characters of 'John Black' and 'Marlena Evans.' After a year of separation, 'John' and 'Marlena' will finally reunite before exiting the canvas in early 2009."The surprise renewal of the serial and the high-profile terminations come at an awkward time for the show, because, despite improving on ratings numbers this year and being the only soap opera not to lose viewers, it was highly expected that the series would simply end its run once its contract ran out in March of next year. In early 2007, at a fall preview unveiling for reporters, NBC president Jeff Zucker made a statement indicating that the show would not be renewed past 2009. The renewal was apparently contingent on lowering overall budget numbers, which includes either lowering salaries for actors or terminating them completely. One actor, Jay Kenneth Johnson, who plays the character Philip Kiriakis, left of his own accord earlier this week after being asked to take a voluntary pay cut in exchange for a contract renewal.Longtime fans of the series are upset at the cast upheaval, with The Tampa Tribune noting loud fan protest on message boards devoted to the drama series. The New York Daily News told readers that next week there will be more news about the current budget situation facing the series, and more potential cast layoffs to be announced. Days publicist Daniela Mancinelli, after being contacted by Wikinews, said that she does not comment on the status of actors' contracts.Two people have come forward to claim a share of the jackpot total of £91,141,671 (US$151,435,849.52) that was previously unclaimed from the EuroMillions lottery draw held on Friday, a lottery draw that is held in Europe across eight countries every Friday night.The two people have yet to have been identified because they have not yet been given their money, as The National Lottery said. Camelot, who are the group who operate the lottery service said that lottery winners are given the option to remain anonymous if the winners wish to do so. The claims are also yet to be validated. As well as this, the banks in the country do not open until Monday. With the total of £45,570,835.50 (US$75,717,924.76) each, the two winners will break the record for the highest lottery jackpot win in the United Kingdom ever, and could each earn £2 million per year in interest alone. If the winners are individuals rather than syndicates, they will also be the first-ever National Lottery winners to go into "The Sunday Times Rich List", which is an annual compilation of the richest people in the United Kingdom that is published in the British broadsheet newspaper, The Sunday Times. Speaking to Sky News, compiler Philip Beresford stated: "It’s extraordinary that in the years we’ve had the lottery we haven’t had anyone at this level. If they’ve got any sense they’ll keep very, very quiet about it or go and live in Monaco, where they’ll just be one of 1,000-odd millionaires." Beresford also spoke of how the winners should handle the situation of losing their jobs, if they wanted to do that. "You've got to plan it very carefully and do it over the months. Get yourself sacked, that would be the best way," he said.At present, further information cannot be released. A spokesperson for Camelot has said: "In our experience of previous EuroMillions winners it seems a greater number of them have been syndicates...but right now we can’t say whether these are groups or individuals."Legendary Emperor Qin Shi Huang of China had one more terracotta warrior guarding his tomb, recently. Pablo Wendel, an art student from Germany, disguised himself as one of the clay sculptures surrounding Qinshihuang in his final resting place, now a museum.Police protecting the northern China museum searched for an extended period of time, as Wendel stood silently, among several thousand sculptures. When police found the 26-year-old performance artist, who later told them he was fascinated by the monumental display, they carried him away "as if he were a log."China was united by Emperor Qin Shi Huang over 2,200 years ago. The tomb in Xian, once the capital of China, is open to the public as a museum.When she was barely 20 years old, Dutch singer Edsilia Rombley got her first large taste of international acclaim. Already a winner of the smaller imitation contest Soundmix Show, she decided to shoot higher. With a great deal of determination, she performed in front of hundreds of millions of television viewers at the 1998 Eurovision Song Contest in Birmingham, United Kingdom. Her song, the R&B flavored "Hemel en aarde" (Heaven and earth), placed fourth and gave her country their highest placing at Eurovision since their last win in 1975. No Dutch contestant after her has been able to place similarly.After the accolades died down, Rombley set her sights on promoting her vision and passion through her music. Partnering with producer Tjeerd Oosterhuis became a double blessing; eventually they became husband and wife. Even a return to Eurovision at the 2007 Contest, with less than favorable results, didn't keep her discouraged for long. Today she has finished recording a live CD of her favorite English songs, and a live DVD of selections in Dutch, and is currently touring in singing engagements this spring in theaters across the Netherlands.Edsilia Rombley granted Wikinews' Mike Halterman an interview; she reflected on her career, her inspirations, what a day is like in her life, and what she would love to do in the future. This is the third in a series of interviews with past Eurovision contestants, which will be published sporadically in the lead-up to mid-May's next contest in Moscow.American Gothic doom metal band Type O Negative have announced details of their upcoming tour of the United States.The supporting act for the entire tour is confirmed to be Lordi, a Finnish melodic hard rock band known for their monster costumes and lyrical themes. The tour is spread across fifteen dates, and is in support of Type O Negative's new album, Dead Again. The album is the band's seventh, and reached number seven on the Billboard 200 and No. 2 on the magazine's Top Independent Album's chart."Spacing the records far apart is how you achieve diverse results," said a statement by keyboardist Josh Silver. "When you're forced to write an album every year or eight months, you haven't changed - you're still the same asshole you were eight months ago. We've been different assholes every record. We've retained our identity through all the changes."The dates announced for the tour are as follows: October 12 New Haven, Connecticut - Toad's PlaceOctober 13 Worcester, Massachusetts - The PalladiumOctober 14 Clifton Park, New York - Northern LightsOctober 16 Allentown, Pennsylvania - Crocodile Rock CaféOctober 17 Buffalo, New York - Town BallroomOctober 20 Milwaukee, - Wisconsin The Eagle's ClubOctober 21 Chicago, Illinois - The VicOctober 23 Knoxville, Tennessee - Blue CatsOctober 24 Atlanta, Georgia - The MasqueradeOctober 25 Asheville, North Carolina - The Orange PeelOctober 26 Louisville, Kentucky - Headliner's Music HallOctober 27 Detroit, Michigan - Harpo'sOctober 29 New York, New York - The Fillmore @ Irving PlazaOctober 30 Philadelphia, Pennsylvania - TrocaderoOctober 31 Sayreville, New Jersey - Starland BallroomOn Friday, Tyrus Wong, a Chinese-US painter who inspired the style of Disney animated film Bambi, died at home of natural causes in Sunland-Tujunga, Los Angeles, according to his daughter Kim Wong.Born on October 25, 1910 in Guangdong province, China, Tyrus Wong left the country with his father at the age of nine under fake names "Look Tai Yow" and "Look Get". Wong's father taught him the art of calligraphy using water instead of ink on newspapers. Wong used to work as a houseboy after school in Los Angeles earning half a dollar per day. Wong's principal in junior high school helped arrange a scholarship in Otis Art Institute for his art skills. At Otis, Wong studied Western art and graduated in 1935. In 1934, a landscape of Wong's appeared in an exhibition organised by the Art Institute of Chicago which also featured a Pablo Picasso etching, "Two Nudes". For two years, from 1934 to 1936, he worked for the Works Progress Administration to create paintings for public buildings.In 1938, Wong began work in the Disney animation studio as an in-betweener — creating hundreds of intermediate images for the appearance of motion.  Walt Disney noticed his work. Wong's forest paintings of deer strongly influenced the style of Bambi. Wong worked at Disney for only three years before he was sacked in 1941, following an employee's strike in which Wong did not participate. Next year, Wong became a Warner Bros. concept artist, drawing storyboards and set designs for live-action films.  Films he drew concept art for included The Sands of Iwo Jima, Rebel Without a Cause, and The Wild Bunch. After more than a quarter century at Warner Bros., Wong retired in 1968. Wong gained US citizenship in 1946.Wong influenced animator Andreas Deja, the creator of Lilo from Lilo & Stitch and Jafar from Aladdin. Wong also worked as a janitor, designed greeting cards, and picked asparagus during the lows in his career.Wong was named a Disney Legend in 2001. Wong is survived by three daughters and two grandchildren.The English National Portrait Gallery (NPG) in London has threatened on Friday to sue a U.S. citizen, Derrick Coetzee. The legal letter followed claims that he had breached the Gallery's copyright in several thousand photographs of works of art uploaded to the Wikimedia Commons, a free online media repository.  In a letter from their solicitors sent to Coetzee via electronic mail, the NPG asserted that it holds copyright in the photographs under U.K. law, and demanded that Coetzee provide various undertakings and remove all of the images from the site (referred to in the letter as "the Wikipedia website").Wikimedia Commons is a repository of free-to-use media, run by a community of volunteers from around the world, and is a sister project to Wikinews and the encyclopedia Wikipedia. Coetzee, who contributes to the Commons using the account "Dcoetzee", had uploaded images that are free for public use under United States law, where he and the website are based. However copyright is claimed to exist in the country where the gallery is situated.The complaint by the NPG is that under UK law, its copyright in the photographs of its portraits is being violated. While the gallery has complained to the Wikimedia Foundation for a number of years, this is the first direct threat of legal action made against an actual uploader of images.  In addition to the allegation that Coetzee had violated the NPG's copyright, they also allege that Coetzee had, by uploading thousands of images in bulk, infringed the NPG's database right, breached a contract with the NPG; and circumvented a copyright protection mechanism on the NPG's web site.The copyright protection mechanism referred to is Zoomify, a product of Zoomify, Inc. of Santa Cruz, California.  NPG's solicitors stated in their letter that "Our client used the Zoomify technology to protect our client’s copyright in the high resolution images.". Zoomify Inc. states in the Zoomify support documentation that its product is intended to make copying of images "more difficult" by breaking the image into smaller pieces and disabling the option within many web browsers to click and save images, but that they "provide Zoomify as a viewing solution and not an image security system".In particular, Zoomify's website comments that while "many customers — famous museums for example" use Zoomify, in their experience a "general consensus" seems to exist that most museums are concerned with making the images in their galleries accessible to the public, rather than preventing the public from accessing them or making copies; they observe that a desire to prevent high resolution images being distributed would also imply prohibiting the sale of any posters or production of high quality printed material that could be scanned and placed online.Charlie Sheen, appearing on cable television news network station CNN on March 24, questioned the credibility of the theory that 19 hijackers caused all of the destruction to the World Trade Center.Sheen said; "It seems to me like, you know, 19 amateurs with box cutters taking over four commercial airliners and hitting 75 percent of their targets, that feels like a conspiracy theory… I am an American citizen that loves my country…. People want the truth. They want the truth. And what's been offered to us resembles nothing of the sort."In recounting his reaction on the day of the event, Sheen said,"I was up early and we were gonna do a pre-shoot on Spin City, the show I used to do. I was watching the news and the north tower was burning. There was a feeling, it just didn't look like any commercial jetliner I've flown on any time in my life and then when the buildings came down later on that day I said to my brother, 'Call me insane but did it sorta look like those buildings came down in a controlled demolition?'" Writer Marc Jacobson, of the New York magazine, who co-appeared with Sheen on the same program said in response: "Well, I think he's doing a reasonable rendition of what other people that believe in this stuff say. And when he says he has his facts straight, I mean, I think the facts are in question. I mean, I think, just because you know what it says on all of these different Web sites doesn't mean that that's necessarily the fact. That's the reason why the United States government, with their endless amounts of resources, let us down by not doing the proper work on the 9/11 Commission. That's a real problem. Well, you know, but, I mean, it's just one of those kind of things where you do this work and nobody really cares, but then Charlie Sheen is interested, so then everybody is interested, and that's fine. You know, obviously, this material needs to be looked at again, because there's been a lot of problems with the 9/11 Commission report. People feel it's not adequate. Most of the people who had lost people during that time feel it's not adequate. And it's just I think we're living in a truth vacuum, in a sense, that any time there's a truth vacuum, these ideas -- because people are smart. They put two and two together. Sometimes they get five; sometimes they get 12, but sometimes they get 11, like 9/11, but sometimes they get four. And the thing is that, if you have a situation where the so-called facts are covered up and aggressively covered up, then you're going to get these conspiracy theories." One website is claiming that Google had been censoring out any news articles relating to Sheen and 9/11 from it's search engine.Regarding the plane that hit the Pentagon, Sheen also has questions: "Just show us how this particular plane pulled off these maneuvers… It is up to us to reveal the truth. It is up to us because we owe it to the families, we owe it to the victims, we owe it to everyone's life who was drastically altered, horrifically, that day and forever. We owe it to them to uncover what happened." Some supporters of Sheen's theories have complained about the lack of mainstream media coverage. They point to CNN's recent cancellation of Ed Asner's interview on Showbiz Tonight, where he was expected to support Sheen's position, as an example of the "media blackout".  Marina Hyde of The Guardian proposed a theory of her own with regard to Sheen: "Frankly, with dentistry as expensive as yours, you simply can't afford to let The Man stamp his jackboot down on your face, and so it is that when faced with the inquiry 'did Lee Harvey Oswald act alone?', you find yourself thinking: 'God, I mean… do any of us? Like, he had to have people, you know? At least an agent and a publicist.'"The Writers Guild of America (WGA) strike, which has crippled entertainment productions in Hollywood since November, may be over as early as Wednesday.In an email to its members Saturday, the WGA announced the arrangement of a tentative agreement with the studios. The union's members will vote on the agreement sometime during the next two weeks. However, a decision to return to work could be made as early as Tuesday. The WGA has recommended that its members support the contract, as it provides money to writers whose work is transmitted over the Internet.There were two meetings held with the writers, one in New York and the other in Los Angeles where the writers seemed to be enthusiastic about getting back into business. Such shows as Desperate Housewives, the American The Office, and Grey's Anatomy will begin again if the votes go as planned.Executive producers for TV series, sometimes called show runners, are heading back to work before the guild takes a final vote.  They are preparing for the writer's return, which is now expected to be as early as Wed.  Show runners are also members of the guild.  They are allowed back at work Monday under the stipulation that their work only consists of producer related tasks.U.S. heiress Gloria Vanderbilt died on Monday at the age of 95, her son Anderson Cooper announced.  She had advanced stomach cancer.  Scion of the wealthy Vanderbilt family and the subject of a heavily publicized custody battle early in life, she later also became a performer, artist, and designer of porcelain, linens, and a well-known line of designer jeans.Anderson Cooper, of CNN, one of Vanderbilt's four sons, stated, "Gloria Vanderbilt was an extraordinary woman, who loved life, and lived it on her own terms [...] She was a painter, a writer, and designer but also a remarkable mother, wife, and friend. She was 95 years old, but ask anyone close to her, and they'd tell you, she was the youngest person they knew, the coolest, and most modern."Vanderbilt was born in 1924 into the wealthy Vanderbilt family, great-great granddaughter of the railroad and shipping tycoon Cornelius Vanderbilt.  Her father, Reginald Claypoole Vanderbilt, died with liver disease when she was one.  At the age of ten, Vanderbilt was the subject of a heavily publicized custody battle between her widowed mother, Gloria Morgan Vanderbilt, and her aunt, Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney, who controlled a large piece of the Vanderbilt fortune.  Her aunt won.Although she had a trust fund worth US$5 million that she shared with one half-sister, over the course of her life, Vanderbilt also earned income herself through various pursuits.  Encouraged to explore creative outlets by a psychotherapist, Vanderbilt took acting lessons and eventually performed on stage in The Time of Your Life in 1955 and appeared on television programs.  She also focused on art and design, creating paintings, collages, linens, and a brand of designer jeans that would generate millions in sales. In 1990, the Smithsonian museum featured her jeans alongside the works of designers including Coco Chanel in an exhibit on gender and style.Syracuse University pop culture professor Robert Thompson remarked, "The thing that really made Gloria Vanderbilt penetrate the American consciousness was the blue jeans war of the late '70s and early 1980s [...] The jeans moved from being functional clothes to designer jeans [...] it was her attempt to take something that was so unglamorous and invest it in high fashion style."Vanderbilt was married to talent agent Pasquale "Pat" Di Cicco; conductor Leopold Stokowski, who fathered two of her sons; director Sidney Lumet; and author Wyatt Cooper; but, according to her memoirs, also had some degree of romantic involvement with, amongst others, Errol Flynn, Frank Sinatra, and Marlon Brando.  She would later say her union with Cooper was her only happy marriage.Vanderbilt also authored several books, including the memoirs Once Upon a Time and Black Knight, White Knight and the 2009 novel Obsession, which the New York Times called "the steamiest book ever written by an octogenarian."Vanderbilt is survived by two sons with Stokowski, Stanislaus and Christopher, and by her son Anderson Cooper.  Another son, Carter Cooper, predeceased her.The United States has become increasingly isolated this week in its stance against a new treaty designed to protect and promote cultural diversity in the age of transnational media industries. The treaty, called the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of Cultural Contents and Artistic Expressions, was sponsored by Canada and France and has been negotiated by government delegates from over 180 countries in a 2-year consensus process. It is expected to be approved later this week by the plenary session of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization UNESCO. The treaty grants individual countries a right "to maintain, adopt, and implement policies and measures they deem appropriate for the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions on their territory". This is designed to protect national cultural policy from 'free trade' agreements like the WTO/GATS, the Free Trade Area of the Americas, or bilateral trade negotiations. For example, the screenquota system in South Korea that requires Korean cinemas to show Korean films about 50% of the time, which supporters argue has nurtured the growth of the Korean movie industry, would likely be eliminated if audiovisual services were brought into the WTO - as the United States Trade Representative has proposed. Other countries, like France and Canada have similar policies in place to support their local artists and film industry.Promoters of the treaty argued that it will allow countries to promote and maintain cultural diversity. The British ambassador to UNESCO characterized the draft as "clear, carefully balanced, and consistent with principles of international law and fundamental human rights".The United States government criticized the treaty on the grounds it would encourage trade protectionism and could serve as a justification for repressive governments to control their media systems. Condoleezza Rice wrote letters encouraging governments to oppose the treaty. The United States stood largely alone in that position. Last Monday night, the United States was only joined by Israel to vote for some last minute amendments brought in by the U.S., whereas 151 nations voted for the original wording of the treaty. Australia and Kiribati abstained.After years of declining subscription rates, the owners of U.S. magazine TV Guide ordered a complete overhaul of the 52-year-old publication. Gemstar-TV Guide International, the corporate parent of the magazine says the current format of the magazine has caused it to become unprofitable.The changes will be effective with the October 15 issue. Lack of profitability has been a point of contention between Gemstar management and its largest shareholder, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. Included in the new design is a shift away from detailed listings to more of a People or Entertainment Weekly celebrity-focused format. Included in that change will be the elimination of the 140 localized editions of TV Guide in favor of one national publication with only "Eastern" and "Pacific" times listed for program listings. The magazine's owners noted that with the advent of digital cable and satellite TV, more viewers rely upon electronic program guides provided free by the television service provider than printed listings.TV Guide officials say the current magazine is made up of 25 percent news content printed on glossy paper and 75 percent TV listings printed on newsprint and in black-and-white. The new version of the magazine will be completely four-color and on glossy paper. Additionally, the news-to-listing ratio will flip with 75 percent of future content being feature articles on celebrities and television programs.A second change will be the magazine's size as it moves from a digest-sized publication to a full-sized glossy. The company expects the larger edition will be more profitable against competition such as People and US Weekly. But that profitability may be at the expense of national reach.Although the magazine is getting physically larger, according to reports, the readership is expected to shrink. Gemstar expects many of is subscribers not to renew with the new format. Currently the TV Guide guarantees 9 million subscribers to its national advertisers. According to reports, it is only guaranteeing 3.2 million subscribers to its revamped publication once it hits newsstands.The online news agency The NewStandard (TNS), a U.S.-based daily dispatch service, ceased publications on Friday, April 27. The not for profit media organization run by the PeoplesNetWorks Collective out of Syracuse, New York was begun in 2004. The 5 staffers that run the collective said that the reason for closure was a "lack of support". An announcement made earlier this week on Monday said, A Friday email to subscribers again announced that it would be the last daily dispatch, in what the publication called "our unusual endeavor", where unusual meant because it did not accept advertising revenue for any of its online page content. All TNS publications were ad free. Premium donors, those who donated US$10 or more each month, and contributions made by its readership and other organizations, funded the news agency during its 3 and a half year life. In this way, donations were the revenue substitute for advertising dollars. TNS came close to shutting down once before, over a year ago. Readers were warned of the pending end, and the publication managed to survive with financial support given by both large donors and small. The publication never took off according to an Alexa web traffic ranking result shown in a graph in the 'External links' section below. In comparison to The Washington Post, where the line on top in that graph represents their ranking, TNS was barely on the radar screen. The content of the online publication was derived from original and featured article reports written by contributors to the publication who were paid between $125 — 100 per article. $50 — $25 was paid to suppliers of news briefs derived mainly from other news agencies, and $25 to cartoonists for their published submissions. Contributors came from all areas of the United States, along with some international.Cartoonist Daryl Cagle, of CagleCartoons.com, who recently starting posting blog content on emails sent to subscribers of his featured cartoon of the day, blogged Wednesday this week in what he titled,  Newspapers and Cartoonists Wandering Blindly:Cagle, currently employed by MSNBC.com and formerly Slate, also remarked that, "I still make my living selling cartoons that are printed in ink on paper from traditional clients who actually pay." He said The Washington Post is one of the most visited online media outlets to grow out of the newsprint era."When The Washington Post Company bought my old employer Slate.com from Microsoft, the negotiations focused on Slate continuing to receive a huge audience flow from promotions on MSN.com. The Post understands the Web where traffic flows like a river - the river has to keep flowing or the lake will dry up." Cagle said.The staffers that run TNS are in the process of wrapping things up and promise to archive as much of the site as possible for future reference, and give a fuller explanation for the site’s closure in this coming week.Friday saw U.S. President Barack Obama issue a proclamation making the south-western Colorado site of Chimney Rock a national monument.  This the third national monument Obama has created, without an Act of Congress, using authority granted to the President under the 1906 Antiquities Act.As the newest of country's 103 national monuments, Chimney Rock consists of the 4,726-acre (19 km2) Chimney Rock Archaeological Area of San Juan National Forest in Archuleta County, Colorado. It will continue being managed by the United States Forest Service. In  Friday's proclamation, Obama said the site "incorporates spiritual, historical, and scientific resources of great value and significance".U.S. Representative Scott Tipton introduced House Bill 2611 last year, attempting to designate the area a national monument; his bill passed in the House of Representatives, but stalled over election-year politics in the Senate.  Fiscal conservatives in the Senate blocked the measure, fearing it could increase administrative costs. Supporters insist any additional costs would be negligible. The President's action has met with bipartisan support from within the swing state of Colorado; although national Republican leaders have criticised presidential use of the 1906 act, citing concerns that where mineral, or fossil fuel, resources may be present such action "locks them up".On June 4, a report published by the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) showed that in the past 16 years high school students have become less likely to engage in health risk-related behaviors such as having sex and taking drugs. However, the CDC found that Hispanic students were less likely to have reduced risky behavior when compared to Black and White students in several key areas.The National Youth Risk Behavior Survey (YRBS) is run by the CDC every two years, and is an anonymous, self-administered survey of students in grades 9 to 12. In the 2007 YRBS, over 14,000 students were surveyed from across 44 U.S. states, 5 territories, and several individual school districts. The combined statistics used results from 39 states and 22 large urban school districts.The survey showed that males were more likely than females to engage in most behaviors involving violence or risk of unintentional injury, including driving while drinking alcohol, carrying a weapon, and being involved in a physical fight, although females were more likely to have contemplated or attempted suicide. Males were also more likely to have smoked tobacco or marijuana, engaged in heavy drinking, or engaged in sexual intercourse, while females were more likely to have fasted for 24 hours or more, vomited or taken laxatives in order to lose weight.While the proportions of White and Black students who had ever had sexual intercourse, and who had had sex with four or more partners in their lifetimes, all dropped over the period 1991-2007, there was no change in either of these statistics for the Hispanic population. Compared to their counterparts in the 1990s however, Hispanic students in 2007 were found to be more likely to have used a condom during their most recent sexual intercourse, and less likely to have consumed drugs such as cigarettes, alcohol and marijuana.Hispanic students were more likely than White or Black students to go without food for 24 hours to lose weight, to take drugs such as heroin or cocaine, to drink alcohol on school property, and to have avoided school on occasion because of safety concerns.In comparison with previous YRBS results, the survey found that the percentage of students who had ever had sexual intercourse decreased from 54.1% in 1991 to 47.8% in 2007, with a comparable decrease in the percentage who had had four or more sexual partners, from 18.7% to 14.9%. Decreases were also found in the percentage of students who had attempted suicide, who rode in a car with a driver who had been drinking alcohol, and who had smoked marijuana in the past month, but an increase in the percentage who had avoided school on occasion because of safety concerns (from 4.4% in 1993 to 5.5% in 2007)."We are pleased that more high school students today are doing things that will help them stay healthy and avoiding things that put their health in danger. Unfortunately we are not seeing that same progress among Hispanic teens for certain risk factors," said Howell Wechsler, Ed.D., MPH, director of CDC’s Division of Adolescent and School Health.In an interview on the United States television show Good Morning America today, U.S. vice president Joe Biden said that a positive consensus on same-sex marriage is "inevitable" as the country "evolves.""[There is] inevitability for a national consensus on gay marriage. I think the country's evolving.  And I think you're going to see, you know, the next effort is probably going to be to deal with so-called DOMA," said Biden.Biden's remarks come just days after U.S. president Barack Obama signed into law, the repeal of Don't ask, don't tell (DADT). The repeal, which was signed by Obama on Thursday, will now allow gay and lesbian service members to serve openly in the country's military, without fear that they will be discharged from service. A report by The Pentagon earlier this month concluded most U.S. service personnel do not believe reform of the rules on gays and lesbians serving in the military would affect morale, unit cohesion or military effectiveness. The report found only 30% believed that changing the law would have a negative effect. DADT, in effect for 17 years, was repealed by the United States Senate on Saturday. The military will cease enforcement of the policy in 60 days time, after the Pentagon has certified to Congress that it, and the military are ready to implement the new law."This is a very good day," Obama told a crowd of soldiers and senior military officials on Thursday. "This morning I'm proud to sign a law that will bring an end to 'don't ask, don't tell'. No longer will tens of thousands of Americans be asked to live a lie in order to serve the country that they love." Obama added that the government would "not drag their feet" and they were "committed to implementing this change swiftly and efficiently."Currently, same-sex marriage is only legal in five of the 50 U.S. states; Connecticut, Iowa, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont, including the District of Columbia (Washington D.C.). In 2008, same-sex marriage was banned in California after voters approved Proposition 8. It was later overturned by a federal judge in San Francisco who deemed the measure unconstitutional.A man living in South Wales, United Kingdom was ordered to destroy his entire music collection after creating a ruckus by listening to the music at an extremely high volume. Police seized his stereo equipment in a raid.Karl Wiosna, a 44-year-old resident of Graig in Pontypridd, was playing Cher's album Believe at extremely high volume. His neighbours complained under the Environmental Protection Act and he was warned not to play the album at such high volume. However, he thought the warning was only for the Cher album, and he then started to listen to a U2 album a week later. His neighbors said they could hear the lyrics in their living room.Before the Rhondda Magistrates' Court Wiosna admitted breaching the noise abatement notice, with which he was served. He was ordered to pay a £200 fine. He was also ordered to pay £50 in costs, £15 in victim surcharge, and to destroy his music collection."They took £500 to £600 worth of stuff," complained Wiosna. "I don't think they should be able to do it, it isn't right.""A legal notice under the Environmental Protection Act was served on Wiosna demanding he reduce the volume or stop playing music," read a statement by the Rhondda Cynon Taf County Borough Council. "Just a week after the legal notice was received, officers were called to the address during an out-of-hours emergency by a neighbour." "In this case, the swift and effective actions of environmental health officers enabled the issue to be dealt with and I hope it serves as a reminder to others, that we can take them to court and seize their belongings if they do not cease causing a nuisance to others," said Councillor Mike Forey, the cabinet member for environmental health.File:Bosphorus Bridge Night.jpgMembers of Irish rock band U2 took a walk on Istanbul's famous Bosphorus Bridge connecting Europe and Asia on Sunday, accompanied by Turkish ministers Egemen Bağış and Hayati Yazıcı.Lead singer Bono gave a speech during the trip. "Last September I was asking, what would be the most inspiring thing about Istanbul? And I said you know[, Bağış], it is the bridge between the East and the West, Europe and Asia, the secular and the religious. It is very important. And then you suggested 'maybe would you like to walk on the bridge? Would you like to play a concert?' And I said a walk will be much easier than a concert. Now I am not so sure."U2 have also met with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan in the Dolmabahçe Palace before their concert at Atatürk Olympic Stadium as part of the U2 360° Tour. They presented him a red iPod nano.The man that Steven Spielberg once called "possibly the best actor in the world", has died. Peter Postlethwaite (OBE), a resident of England who worked as an actor for over 40 years, died of testicular cancer in Shropshire at the age of 64, according to his friend Andrew Richardson.Postlethwaite, born in Warrington in 1946, was most famous for his starring role in such films as Brassed Off, The Usual Suspects and, more recently, Inception. He was also known to be a stage performer. In 1993, he was nominated for an Oscar for best supporting actor.He is survived by wife Jacqui and children Will and Lily - aged 21 and 14, respectively.In the United Kingdom, The Carphone Warehouse, Celebrity Big Brother's sponsor, has pulled out after some of the reality TV show's contestants were accused of racism, with which the company did not want to be associated. The Perfume Shop has announced they will withdraw the perfume Shh... of Jade Goody, one of the contestants accused of bullying with a racist undertone. Motorcycle insurance company Bennetts unilaterally terminated its deal with former Miss England Danielle Lloyd to front an advertisement campaign.The accusations centre around recent comments made by Jade Goody, Danielle Lloyd and Jo O'Meara (a former member of pop act S Club 7) about Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty. The racism row was sparked by Jade's mother, who referred to Shilpa as "the Indian", instead of calling her by her name. She also asked Shilpa: "Do you live in a house or a shack?" There have been remarks over her accent, her alleged lack of hygiene when cooking, and reactions because she touched the food of housemates with her hands. Danielle Lloyd said: "You don't know where those hands have been." Lloyd also commented to Goody about the Indian actress: "She wants to be white".When asked about the incident in the Diary Room, Shetty said "...I don't feel there was any racial discrimination happening from Jade's end. I think there are a lot of insecurities from her end but it's definitely not racial."Hertfordshire Police, the constabulary within which the Big Brother House falls, have received numerous formal complaints they will be investigating. Politicians, other celebrities, and fans spoke of their disgust as the UK media regulator Ofcom received a record number of complaints that rose tonight to 33,000. The Commission for Racial Equality is investigating if the footage was manipulated to deliberately imply racism.Labour Party MP Keith Vaz even proposed a motion in the House of Commons condemning the abuse. He said "If this racist behaviour goes on, they [Jo O'Meara, Danielle Lloyd and Jade Goody] should be asked to leave". Chancellor Gordon Brown, currently on tour in India, told reporters in Bangalore: "I want to reassure people that what British people are proud of is our reputation for tolerance and fairness." Others believe this reflects a racist tendency in British our Western society in general. The newspaper Times of India ran the headline "Big(ot) Brother bullies Shilpa". "What is happening in Big Brother is just holding the mirror to the western society. This is the real, discriminating face of the West.", was the reaction of Bollywood film director Mahesh Bhatt. Ken Livingstone, the Mayor of London, accused Channel 4 of damaging the country's reputation.The show was recently losing viewers, but as a result of the controversy, viewing rates are up for the program.The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) of the United Kingdom yesterday issued an update detailing progress on its response to the August 2015 crash at Shoreham Airshow that killed eleven.The Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) is expected to release a final report within months. It has issued a total of 21 recommendations to the CAA, which yesterday confirmed it has accepted all of them. Pilot Andy Hill, who survived but was seriously injured, faces a manslaughter investigation.The CAA says it has already implemented more than half the recommendations in addition to publishing its own review of airshow safety in April. In April, it accepted measures including an increase in the distance between spectators and aircraft at shows. The latest recommendations include changes to aircraft maintenance and the process of receiving permits.A CAA spokesperson said "We have been working on them as and when the recommendations came in and reviewing them in detail. We are continuing to work to implement the changes." They said the plan is "to have as many in place as possible before the start of the air show season." Hill was performing a large loop when his 1950s Hawker Hunter jet crashed into the A27 road near the town of Shoreham in West Sussex, England. Cars were caught up in the impact. He was an experienced pilot with a career with British Airways and the Royal Air Force followed by years of display flights. His military experience included flying Harrier jump-jets.Both Hill and the aircraft were well known amongst airshow enthusiasts. The plane was sold by the military when it was decommissioned in 1996. Fellow pilot David Wildridge, who also participated in the Shoreham show, said at the time Hill was "well-known and well-loved", "very professional", and "the best of the best."All eleven killed were men. An inquest is presently scheduled for March. It was one of three deadly European airshow crashes in four days, with fatal collisions in Switzerland and Slovakia.Calls for the ouster of British government minister Maria Miller have been increasing following a claim by the Daily Telegraph newspaper that Miller's special adviser used the threat of press regulation to try and prevent publication of a story about Miller's expenses. A poll published today by a number of newspapers shows a majority of the public unhappy with Miller's behaviour and saying she should be removed.The issue stems initially from a report in the Daily Telegraph regarding Miller's expenses claims to help pay a mortgage on a house in south London that Miller shares with her parents. The newspaper claimed that she had claimed £90,000 to pay the mortgage on the house. Miller's expenses have been the subject of investigation by a parliamentary commissioner and then by the House of Commons Committee on Standards. The commissioner determined she should repay £45,000 of this expense, but the Committee determined she ought to only repay £5,800. Following the decision of the Committee, the Daily Telegraph reported Miller's special adviser Joanna Hindley had said in a telephone call with the newspaper, "I should just flag up as well, while you're on it that when she doorstepped him, she got Maria's father, who’s just had a [removed] and come out of [removed]. And Maria [has] obviously been having quite a lot of editors' meetings around Leveson at the moment. So I am just going to kind of flag up that connection for you to think about."The Telegraph alleges that this was intended as a form of intimidation: that Hindley dropped in mention of press regulation and the Leveson Report as a way to attempt to get the newspaper to drop the story. A leader column in the Telegraph stated Hindley's remarks were "an indictment of the influence that press regulation by statute could have over free speech". Therese Coffey, a Conservative MP (Member of Parliament), has defended Hindley's statements to the Telegraph, as specifically referring to the "doorstepping" of Maria Miller's elderly parents, specifically her father who had been returning from hospital. Coffey said of the audio published by the Telegraph: "I heard an adviser to the culture secretary suggesting that it's inappropriate to be doorstepping elderly parents of somebody who has just come out of hospital."Heather Brooke, a campaigner who has been involved in the release and publication of MPs' expenses and the scandal that followed, said the alleged doorstepping was "a public interest piece of reporting", noting that the journalist from the Telegraph had to visit the property to work out who was living there. Brooke said it was "disingenuous to use this argument of privacy".Telegraph editor Tony Gallagher also claimed that Craig Oliver, David Cameron's director of communications, also attempted to suppress the story: "When you get the Prime Minister's spokesman making a similar phone call to you a couple of days later, you add all three calls up and you can only conclude that they are trying to harass you and stop you from publishing the story."Oliver has denied the story. "It is utterly false to suggest that I threatened Tony Gallagher over Leveson in any way. The conversation I had with him was about the inappropriate doorstepping of an old man", he told the BBC.Miller has the backing of Prime Minister David Cameron: on Friday, Cameron told reporters to "leave it there" on questions of Miller's expenses. Iain Duncan Smith, the work and pensions secretary, suggested Miller could be targeted by a "witch-hunt" due to her role in press regulation following the Leveson inquiry, as well as her job in fronting the government's gay marriage bill.Duncan Smith told the BBC's Andrew Marr Show: "I am enormously fond of her. She has done a very good job in a very difficult set of circumstances with the Leveson inquiry that has stirred up a lot of media antipathy to her. And also the gay marriage stuff — there are a lot of Conservatives out there who, perhaps, were not necessarily in support of it all and so feel rather bitter about that. I have known her to be a reasonable and honest person."Labour politicians have responded to the affair with strong criticism of Miller, but no call yet to resign. Angela Eagle, the shadow leader of the House of Commons, said: "The latest revelations and the release of a recording raise further serious questions for Maria Miller and David Cameron. They urgently need to make clear what they knew about these calls and what action they took about them."A documentary broadcast on Sunday on the UK's Channel 4 claims the RMS Titanic was weakened by a three-week fire before its infamous 1912 sinking.More than 1,500 people died when the vessel sank partway between Southampton, England and New York, United States. The disaster has long been thought down to a collision with an iceberg.Titanic: The New Evidence focuses upon research by Irish journalist Senan Molony, who spent 30 years investigating the accident. Based on photographs of RMS Titanic at the shipyard that built it in Belfast, Ireland, he suggested fire by spotting large black streaks in the region struck by the iceberg.The documentary claims expert analysis confirmed these streaks likely signify a large fire in a fuel store. Alleging temperatures of up to 1,000 degrees Celsius, Molony said metallurgists had opined "when you get that level of temperature against steel it makes it brittle, and reduces its strength by up to 75 per cent."Molony claims "This isn't a simple story of colliding with an iceberg and sinking. It's a perfect storm of extraordinary factors coming together: fire, ice and criminal negligence[....] The fire was known about, but it was played down. She should never have been put to sea." He said J Bruce Ismay, President of the firm behind construction of RMS Titanic, ordered the twelve men tasked to attempting to control the fire to avoid informing passengers. Molony also claims the ship backed into its Southampton berth in a bid to hide fire damage.A 1912 report to the UK Parliament mentioned, but dismissed as a cause, the on-board fire. Ray Boston suggested in 2008 fire may have broken out ten days prior to departure. Boston investigated the disaster for twenty years. Richard De Kerbrech, who wrote several books documenting the accident, said Molony's proposal the fire severely weakened the ship's structure is believable.Molony said "Nobody has investigated these marks before or dwelled upon them." The photographs, taken by engineers on the ship, only recently came to light when they were sold at auction.The British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) has refused to issue a certificate for Grotesque. The move makes it illegal to sell the Japanese horror film in the United Kingdom.BBFC director David Cooke described the piece as containing "unacceptable content" and being "little more than an unrelenting and escalating scenario of humiliation, brutality and sadism". He said that cuts were "not a viable option". The movie includes scenes of castration, disembowelment and amputation. The BBFC has only rejected a handful of other films in the last four years out of the 10,000 it reviews for DVD release every year. These include the sexually violent Murder-Set-Pieces and Terrorists, Killers And Other Wackos, a film showing graphic clips of real-life torture and killing.Cooke said Grotesque's "chief pleasure... seems to be in the spectacle of sadism (including sexual sadism) for its own sake."  The BBFC's only other recent rejections have been two pornographic films seeking the R18 rating.  Grotesque's creators had hoped the film would receive an 18 rating, which is below R18. Cooke also said that the film was different from other violent horrors due to its "minimal narrative or character development."The United Kingdom-based human rights group Liberty and the City of Edinburgh Council in Scotland have weighed in on the right of critics to call Scientology a "cult" at peaceful protests. After a 15-year-old boy refused to remove a sign calling Scientology a "cult" at a May 10 protest in London, City of London Police confiscated his sign and issued him a court summons. On May 23 the Crown Prosecution Service stated that there would be no prosecution of the boy. Liberty is investigating the actions of the City of London Police, and told The Guardian Wednesday that they may decide to lodge a complaint with the Independent Police Complaints Commission. The City Council of Edinburgh released a statement earlier this week saying they had no objections to the word "cult" being used on signs at anti-Scientology protests.Individuals from the group Anonymous have held monthly international protests against the Church of Scientology since February, as part of the anti-Scientology movement Project Chanology. The Project Chanology movement began when the Church of Scientology attempted to get a leaked Scientology promotional video featuring Tom Cruise removed from websites YouTube and Gawker.com. Members of Anonymous were motivated by the actions of the Church of Scientology, and bombarded Scientology websites and were successful in taking some of them down. Anonymous later changed tactics towards legal measures, and held international protests against Scientology on February 10, March 15, April 12, and most recently May 10. Localized protests have also been held in various cities in between the international protests.The May 10 London protest took place near St Paul's Cathedral at the Church of Scientology's headquarters on Queen Victoria Street. The 15-year-old boy's poster read: "Scientology is not a religion, it is a dangerous cult". City of London Police approached the boy at the May 10 protest and cited section five of the Public Order Act 1986, which deals with "harassment, alarm or distress". In response, the boy cited a 1984 judgment given by Mr. Justice Latey in the Family Division of the High Court of Justice of Her Majesty's Courts of Justice of England and Wales, in which Latey called Scientology a "cult" and said it was "corrupt, sinister and dangerous". In the actual 1984 judgment made by Judge Latey, he stated: "Scientology is both immoral and socially obnoxious. [...] In my judgement it is corrupt, sinister and dangerous. [...] It is dangerous because it is out to capture people, especially children and impressionable young people, and indoctrinate and brainwash them so that they become the unquestioning captives and tools of the cult, withdrawn from ordinary thought, living and relationships with others." The boy told fellow protesters he was not going to take the sign down, saying: "If I don't take the word 'cult' down, here [holding up his sign], I will be either, I think, most likely arrested or [given] a summons. I am going to fight this and not take it down because I believe in freedom of speech, besides which I'm only fifteen."When the boy refused to take his sign down, City of London Police removed it, cited him with a court summons and informed him that the matter would be referred to the Crown Prosecution Service. The boy was the only protester who did not comply with the police requests to remove signs which referred to Scientology as a "cult". According to The Guardian, a CPS spokesman stated that: "In consultation with the City of London police, we were asked whether the sign, which read 'Scientology is not a religion it is a dangerous cult', was abusive or insulting. Our advice is that it is not abusive or insulting and there is no offensiveness, as opposed to criticism, neither in the idea expressed nor in the mode of expression. No action will be taken against the individual.""The CPS review of the case includes advice on what action or behaviour at a demonstration might be considered to be threatening, abusive or insulting. The force's policing of future demonstrations will reflect this advice," said a spokeswoman for the City of London Police in a statement in The Guardian. Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty, voiced concerns about the actions of the City of London Police, as did James Welch, legal director of Liberty. Liberty represented the 15-year-old boy to the City of London Police. Chakrabarti told The Guardian Wednesday that Liberty is looking into the matter and may file a complaint with the Independent Police Complaints Commission if it is determined that the City of London Police has a policy on appropriate wording on protest signs which relate specifically to anti-Scientology protests. Freedom of speech campaigners may also call for a judicial review of the legality of the protest guidelines of the City of London Police."Curtailing people's freedom of speech is a very serious issue and it's important to know whether this is part of the force's policy or a decision relating specifically to the Church of Scientology. There is the possibility of a complaint to the IPCC or a judicial review," said Chakrabarti in a statement Wednesday in The Guardian. "Some people are very easily intimidated and will be put off exercising their right to free speech by the thought that they may face court action over it. We have to defend that right and show how wrong the police were in issuing this summons."Protesters in Scotland that routinely gather to protest against the Church of Scientology outside the Scientology centre in South Bridge, Edinburgh contacted the City of Edinburgh Council in order to get the Council's input on using the word "cult" on signs at anti-Scientology protests. In a statement in The Scotsman on Tuesday, an Edinburgh County official said: "I understand that some of the signs you use may display the word 'cult' and there is no objection to this." The Scotsman reported that a representative for the Lothian and Borders Police said that the Scotland police force had "no issue" with the use of the word "cult" in a peaceful protest. A representative for Liberty spoke positively of the position taken by the City of Edinburgh Council. "The leadership shown by the City of Edinburgh Council's decision to protect free speech is a positive step," said Liberty media director Jen Corlew in a statement Tuesday in The Scotsman.The City of London Police has faced controversy in the past for its close association with the Church of Scientology. When the City of London Scientology building opened in 2006, City of London Chief Superintendent Kevin Hurley praised Scientology in an appearance as guest speaker at the building's opening ceremony. Ken Stewart, another of the City of London's chief superintendents, has also appeared in a video praising Scientology. According to The Guardian over 20 officers for the City of London Police have accepted gifts from the Church of Scientology including tickets to film premieres, lunches and concerts at police premises. Unlike the City of London Police, the Metropolitan Police Service (the territorial police force responsible for Greater London excluding the City of London) has not raised an issue with protesters using placards with similar wording at protests against Scientology, according to The Guardian and Londonist.Film and television actor Jason Beghe visited a protest organized by members of Project Chanology on Thursday in New York, New York. Beghe joined Scientology in 1994, and gave US$1 million to the Church of Scientology over the course of his membership with the organization. He told Roger Friedman of FOX News that Scientology head David Miscavige called him "the poster boy for Scientology". Beghe appeared in promotional videos for Scientology in 2005. In April 2008 he left Scientology, and contacted Scientology critic Andreas Heldal-Lund, who put him in touch with another critic Mark Bunker. Bunker arranged an interview with Beghe, which was uploaded to Bunker's YouTube account on April 7. The posted video is a 3-minute portion of a larger 3-hour interview with Beghe about his criticism of Scientology. In the video Beghe states: "Scientology is destructive and a rip-off. ... It’s very, very dangerous for your spiritual, psychological, mental, emotional health and evolution."Beghe participated in the May 10 international protests against the Church of Scientology, attending the protest in Los Angeles. He met with fellow Scientology critic and former Scientologist Lawrence Wollersheim and spoke with members of Project Chanology.Approximately 50 people attended the Thursday protest outside the Church of Scientology of New York building on East 46th Street in New York City. Beghe met with individuals from the group Anonymous and expressed support for what they were doing. "What you guys are doing means so much to me, and so much to these people ... It just kills me. It makes me want to cry. You don’t know what kind of good you’re doing," said Beghe to the protesters.After meeting with the protesters, Beghe walked across the street to the Church of Scientology building but was blocked from entering by three men standing outside the building. Beghe told The Village Voice that he believes these individuals were not Scientologists but hired private security guards. He said to the guards "I paid a million dollars, and I want to go in," but was told to go back across the street. When he rejoined the protesters on the other side of the street he called the Church of Scientology asking to speak to the president of the Church of Scientology of New York, John Carmichael, but said "they hung up". According to a blog post at The Village Voice website, Carmichael was caught on video at an anti-Scientology protest held in New York City on Monday telling a protester: "Let me tell you this: I smell pussy," and then addressed an individual protester and said: "You in particular." According to The Village Voice blog post, the incident occurred after protesters prevented Carmichael from capturing images of them and identifying them, by shining a flashlight at his camera.Each of the Project Chanology international protests against Scientology has had a theme: the February protest called attention to the birthday of Lisa McPherson, who died under controversial circumstances while under the care of Scientology, the March protest was arranged to take place two days after Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard's birthday, the April protest highlighted the Church of Scientology's disconnection policy, and the May protest highlighted the Scientology practice of "Fair Game" and took place one day after the anniversary of the publication of Hubbard's book Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health. Another international protest is planned for June 14, and will highlight the Church of Scientology's elite "Sea Organization" or "Sea Org".In the United Kingdom, Lancashire Constabulary have charged television and radio presenter Stuart Hall with three counts of indecent assault offences. The charges relate to complaints about alleged events between 1974 and 1984 involving three females between eight and seventeen years of age. Hall has been released on bail and is expected to appear at Preston Magistrates' Court January 7. Lancashire Constabulary described the nature of the allegations as "historic" and said the suspect was being interrogated at a police station today. They arrested Hall at his residence. John Dilworth, from the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), said "there is sufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction and ... it is in the public interest to prosecute this case."Hall notably presented UK game show It's a Knockout. He has recently been featuring as an association football commentator on BBC Radio 5 Live, although the corporation said he was not scheduled to present at the station this weekend. Hall was awarded an OBE in the last New Year Honours for services to charity and broadcasting, having had a broadcasting career lasting fifty years.Dilworth stated the following information about the ages of the alleged victims and the dates between which these incidents allegedly occurred:  one aged 16–17, between September 1 and  December 31, 1974; one aged 13, between July 1 and September 27, 1984; and one aged 8–9, between January 1 and December 31, 1983.Nick Clegg, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, has been unofficially declared the winner of the first televised election debate in British history.The results of several early opinion polls concurred that Clegg's ratings surpassed those of Conservative Party leader David Cameron and Labour Party leader Gordon Brown:Populus for The Times—Nick Clegg 61%, David Cameron 22% and Gordon Brown 17%YouGov for The Sun—Nick Clegg 51%, David Cameron 29% and Gordon Brown 19%ComRes for ITV News—Nick Clegg 43%, David Cameron 26% and Gordon Brown 20%A less scientific sample composed of TheGuardian readers yielded 59% support for Clegg, 32% for Brown and 9% for Cameron. However, pundits have dismissed Clegg's win as irrelevant, since voters vote for local MPs, not the prime minister.Although such debates are usual in the United States, this is the first one taking place in the United Kingdom. That television election debate, which ran on ITV at 8:30 on the 15th, will be the first of three others and was set to focus upon domestic issues, though one of the questions drifted to cover the British nuclear deterrent and the British involvement in Afghanistan.The second debate is due to take place on Thursday, 22 April 2010 at 8 p.m. It will be broadcasted by Sky and will focus on international issues.Prince William of Wales has selected his brother Prince Harry to be the best man at his wedding. The announcement was made by a spokesman at St James's Palace. It has also been revealed that Prince William's fiancée, Kate Middleton, has asked her sister Philippa to be her Maid of Honour. Prince William and Middleton will marry on April 29th of this year at Westminster Abbey.When it was announced that William and Kate had become engaged Prince Harry commented saying that: "It means I get a sister, which I have always wanted," and that he was "delighted".As well as the announcements of the best man and Maid of Honour, other plans have been released as well. The four bridesmaids have been announced as the daughter of the Earl and Countess of Wessex, Lady Louise Windsor, who is seven years old. Eight-year-old Margarita Armstrong-Jones, who is the daughter of Viscount and Viscountess Linley, and three-year-old Grace van Cutsem, the daughter of Hugh van Cutsem, who is a close friend to both William and Kate. The three-year-old granddaughter of the Duchess of Cornwall will be the forth bridesmaid.Two page boys have been announced as William Lowther-Pinkerton and Tom Pettifer. Lowther-Pinkerton is the son of William's private secretary while Pettifer is the son of William and Harry's former nanny, Tiggy Legge-Bourke.However, details of the bridesmaid dresses and page boys uniforms will not be revealed until the day of the wedding.The UK musician, Niomi McLean-Daley popularly known as 'Ms Dynamite' has been sentenced to carry out 60 hours of community service after admitting to assaulting a policewoman.The rap star has been fined £750 in compensation.Sky News reports that "she had hit the officer in the face at a London police station on January 6."According to Sky News, District Judge Timothy Workman said: "The injury sustained by that one blow were obviously more considerable than first thought."I accept that it was one blow and in the circumstances bearing in mind your good character, you have never been in court before, you are entitled to a discount on sentence."According to her solicitor the catalyst for the row was the racial abuse of her sister Annabell, 18.The BBC reports that Ms Dynamite's solicitor Anthony Burton said: "My client has absolutely no excuse for her conduct. She makes no bones about that. She apologises profoundly for her conduct to the officer involved, Pc Marles. "She is deeply ashamed."United Kingdom media regulator Ofcom has proposed that British Sky Broadcasting (Sky) make its premium film and sports channels available to rival broadcasters.File:Sky Logo 2004 Transparent.pngAccording to Ofcom, this would be the "most appropriate way of ensuring fair and effective competition".  On hearing the news Sky responded by saying it "fundamentally" disagreed with the proposal and will use "all legal channels" to stop it.Ofcom proposed they make the subscription channels available at a "regulated price" to its rivals which would enable them to access and offer more channels for their viewers. Ofcom has requested that parties respond by August 18.Ofcom were quoted as saying "We do not believe that this proposed remedy would have a disproportionate impact on Sky, since we consider the proposed prices are above the level required to allow Sky a reasonable return on its content costs". BT Group welcomed the proposal saying "Prices have been too high for too long but this could all change if Ofcom breaks Sky's stranglehold."The Daily Star, a tabloid newspaper in the United Kingdom, has paid an undisclosed amount of libel damages to Ozzy Osbourne stemming from an inaccurate representation of his appearance at the Brit Awards.Osbourne, famous for both his solo rock career and fronting the heavy metal band Black Sabbath, was hosting the show alongside wife Sharon and children Jack and Kelly.  In an ensuing Star article titled "Ozzy Freak Show", the 59-year old was portrayed as suffering from health problems that rendered his ability to host the show questionable.The article claimed that he had collapsed twice before the show began, prompting the show's organisers to enter emergency talks debating whether Osbourne was fit to continue as planned or instead should be withdrawn and hospitalised. It also reported that the singer had used an electric buggy to move around behind the scenes and had been designated a place to sit in case he felt tired. All of these allegations were found to be false.At the settlement in London's High Court, at which the Osbournes were not present, Kate Wilson, representing Express Newspapers, apologised for the article and accepted that it should never have been published. Express Newspapers owns the Daily Star.Osbourne says that the money will go to his wife's charity, the Sharon Osbourne Colon Cancer Program.United Kingdom entertainer and former television presenter Michael Barrymore, 55, and two other men have been arrested on suspicion of murder and serious sexual assault concerning the death of Stuart Lubbock in 2001. Lubbock was found floating in Barrymore's swimming pool. Postmortem toxicology reports found that his bloodstream contained a cocktail of cocaine, ecstasy and alcohol. Further, the autopsy revealed that Lubbock had suffered severe internal injuries consistent with a serious sexual assault.Confidential sources named the two other men arrested as John Kenney, 37, and Justin Merritt, 32. Both were previously arrested six years ago with Barrymore by an earlier police investigation.The arrests seemed to have been made after new evidence emerged. Essex police said that they have tapes of interviews with Barrymore. The tapes were made by Tony Cowell, brother of Simon Cowell, and literary agent for Barrymore.However, an Essex police spokesperson said, "The arrests were planned prior to Essex police obtaining those tapes. The arrests are the result of a culmination of work by Essex police over 12 months in the form of a review and investigation."Bars and nightclubs in London, Manchester, and Newcastle, UK, now carry vending machines selling sex toys for about £5.  These fuchsia-pink Tabooboo machines are usually located near toilets to render deliberating customers a modicum of privacy.  However, some hairdressing salons are giving the machines "center stage".  Products available from these unconventional vending machines include mini vibrators, "silicone ticklers", "lust fingers", and bottles of "love liquid" (an edible lubricant).The Alphabet Bar in London's West End, host to the first sex toy vending machine in the U.K., claims many people visit especially for the machine, and describes it as a "great success".  Alan Lucas, the managing director of the company behind this enterprise, Tabooboo, suggests that the success of the machines is due to younger people having a more liberal view of sex toys. He stated, "The most popular product is a vibrating rod ring which is something [the man] wears [on his penis]".The machines are expected to begin appearing in the U.S. and Italy.British television network ITV announced today that it will cancel long running police drama The Bill.  The Bill is one of the United Kingdom's longest running drama series, having premiered the pilot episode, entitled "Woodentop", in 1983.The series has suffered from declining ratings despite an overhaul in 2009 which included a move to a post-watershed time slot. In a statement, ITV announced that the cancellation was part of a "creative rethink" and that the money saved from the cancellation would be put towards shorter-term dramas. ITV's Peter Fincham said that "The Bill has been a fixture on our screens for more than 25 years and has been the home of some of the UK's best serial drama storylines, and a great showcase for terrific scriptwriting and fine acting talent. But times change, and so do the tastes of our audience." Fincham went on to explain that the decision to cancel the series was a "creative decision" rather than one intended to cut costs.Ninety people are currently employed on the production team for The Bill and production company Talkback Thames announced that there was a possibility of a "significant number of redundancies", but the company is entering into consultation with employees. The current series will end later in 2010 and ITV will not be recommissioning it. Investing in shorter-run dramas, ITV announced that, inter alia, a new short series written by Anthony Horowitz is forthcoming.Queen Elizabeth II officially reopened the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford yesterday, after its £61 million redevelopment.  The museum, which is run by the University of Oxford and is the oldest museum in the United Kingdom, was closed for a year during the refurbishment.  Under the direction of the architect Rick Mather, a further 39 galleries have been added, along with the first rooftop cafe in Oxford. The project, which replaced the whole building apart from the Grade I listed Cockerell building, received a £15 million grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund. The museum reopened its doors on November 7, 2009, in advance of the official ceremony by the Queen. The guests at the reopening included Prince Mohammed bin Nawaf Al-Saud, the Saudi Ambassador to Britain.The Chancellor of the University of Oxford, Lord Patten, greeted the Queen on her arrival.  He said "It is quite literally the most important day in the museum's history since it was founded in 1683. It is a spectacular renovation and transformation of what is really the world's greatest university museum."  The museum's director, Christopher Brown, said that it was a "historical moment" for Oxford. The Queen combined her visit to the museum with celebrations at Brasenose College marking its 500th anniversary. The director of alumni relations and development for Brasenose College, Jennifer Lewis, noted that the founder of the Ashmolean, Elias Ashmole, had been a student at the college, and said that the visit by the Queen to both institutions on the same day was "particularly fitting".Europe's largest free ticketed music event, Radio 1's Big Weekend, today drew to a close after two days of entertainment and music from some of the UK's largest musical names, including the Scissor Sisters, Razorlight, Mika, and Natasha Bedingfield. Hosted in Preston, Lancashire, the first musical event of the UK season provided 35,500 fans over the two days with a musical treat. The weekend also played host to an alternative reality game, portraying a fictional sinister plot.UK media regulator Ofcom has stated that remarks made on Channel 5 programme The Wright Stuff on December 6 last year in relation to the murder of Liam Aitchison were "clearly capable of causing offence". However, the issue has been "resolved", the regulator concluded in its latest broadcast bulletin.Ofcom launched an investigation in relation to a potential breach of rule 2.3 of its Broadcasting Code, which reads: "In applying generally accepted standards broadcasters must ensure that material which may cause offence is justified by the context". Presenter Matthew Wright employed a false Scottish accent and remarked: "There's been another murder," in reference to the UK crime drama Taggart, as the murder was being discussed as part of a newspaper review. At this point, audience laughter could be heard. Charlie Baker, who was sat on the panel, responded by saying it would be "[t]he longest episode of Taggart of all time" with "lots of down-time in between", citing the time period of approximately forty years since the last murder investigation on the Western Isles.No apology was broadcast at any point during the programme. Ofcom subsequently received at least 2,220 complaints about the incident. The regulator stated that, with his comments, Wright "made light of the murder" and "went on to laugh loudly with the audience as the conversation continued", appearing to illustrate "no regard to the unfortunate circumstances of this murder case concerning the killing of a 16 year old well known to many within the local community in which he lived." Channel 5 would later acknowledge that these remarks were "unfortunate, misjudged and entirely inappropriate". A page on the social networking website Facebook, entitled 'Report The Wright Stuff to Ofcom', accumulated in excess of 2,500 likes.In the next edition of the show the following day, Wright apologised, saying it was "certainly no intention on my part to belittle the seriousness or tragedy of the story, or to offend anyone who knew Liam" but remarked that he was "[n]ot helped though by people running campaigns - 'report Matthew Wright to Ofcom'. I mean, grow up, folks". Ofcom said these comments would have "potentially caused further offence to viewers". Channel 5 went on to retract access to this edition and the edition from the day before from Demand 5, its Internet catch up service.On the December 8 programme, Wright apologised again. "I deeply, deeply regret my thoughtless comments," Wright said, "and very sincerely apologise to Liam's family and his community. I truly apologise OK, from the bottom of my heart if I have made their suffering worse. I should add that Charlie Baker also wishes to apologise unreservedly". The Aitchison family subsequently accepted a direct apology issued to them by Wright.As a result of this incident, Channel 5 decided to re-examine the compliance and editorial rules set between Channel 5 and The Wright Stuff's production company. Channel 5 also committed the major production team members of The Wright Stuff to learning about compliance in greater detail.Ofcom was of the opinion that "these comments were clearly capable of causing offence to viewers given the sensitivity surrounding the very recent murder of a 16 year old teenager in an isolated Scottish community." However, "[o]n balance, and in light of the steps taken by Channel 5 to mitigate this offence, Ofcom considered the matter resolved." The regulator does not intend to take any further action over this incident. A recent status update from 'Report The Wright Stuff to Ofcom' clarified its administrator's intention to remove the page on Thursday.The U.S. Supreme Court today ruled that Internet file sharing networks can be sued for copyright infringement. The decision in the case "Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc. et al. v. Grokster, Ltd. et al." had been much awaited by those on both sides of the debate about copyright law and its application to Internet technologies. The court ruled that businesses created with the purpose of letting users commit copyright violations should be held liable for the infringement.Writing for the court, Justice David Souter wrote: "One who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright, as shown by clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster infringement, going beyond mere distribution with knowledge of third-party action, is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by third parties using the device, regardless of the device's lawful uses."The strength of the decision was unexpected — this is the first major Internet copyright case to reach the Supreme Court in many years, and the Justices' unanimity sends a strong message about their lack of tolerance for companies designed to violate the law.The decision affects such companies as Grokster and StreamCast, both of which were defendants in this suit. The court's ruling does not have an immediate effect, however, as the Justices referred the decisions to a lower court to be reconsidered.Fred von Lohmann, senior staff attorney for the EFF, panned the court for not providing a clear test for what constitutes inducement, saying it would discourage innovators unsure of their project's legality. He did however remain optimistic about Grokster and StreamCast's chances in the lower courts.Tom Cruise: An Unauthorized Biography, a biography of actor Tom Cruise written by journalist Andrew Morton, has hit the number one spot on Amazon.com's Top Sellers list and The New York Times Best Sellers list. Morton's book was published January 15, and hit number one on Amazon.com's Top Sellers list on January 18. Yesterday, the book hit the number one spot on The New York Times Best Sellers list. The book is not for sale in Britain or Ireland, and the New York Post has reported that British tourists to the United States are buying copies of the book to bring back home.Morton makes some controversial assertions in the book, including that Cruise is second in command at the Church of Scientology, and that Scientology was the cause of Cruise and Nicole Kidman's separation.Cruise's attorney, Bertram Fields released a statement which said that the book was "absolutely loaded with false statements." Cruise has threatened a USD$100 million lawsuit against Morton and the book's publisher, St. Martin's Press. The Church of Scientology also responded to Morton's claims in the book. In a 15-page statement, the Church called the book "bigoted" and a "defamatory assault," and said that Cruise "holds no official or unofficial position in the Church hierarchy."Morton was interviewed by the Associated Press, and responded to some of the statements made by the Church of Scientology. When asked if he had attempted to interview Cruise for the book, Morton said "I asked Tom for an interview and he declined." In response to a statement released by Cruise's publicists that he had not interviewed "one person who has known or worked with Tom" in the past twenty-five years, Morton responded "I interviewed everyone from scriptwriters to producers to actors to actresses to teachers to girlfriends to pupils to Scientologists to people who have audited him." When questioned about his assertion that Cruise is "second in command" of the Church of Scientology, Morton stated "Scientology would be a shadow of what it is today if it had not been for the involvement of Tom Cruise."Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote that parts of the book "push the limits of responsible reporting." A review in the Chicago Tribune was also critical, and Teresa Budasi wrote "If you read Andrew Morton’s unauthorized biography of Tom Cruise with a fan’s curiosity in one hand and a thinking person’s skepticism in the other, you’ll likely end up in the same place you were before you read it: not all that interested." In his review of the book, Dave Shiflett of The Wall Street Journal commented on the litigious nature of the Church of Scientology, writing "Mr. Morton, apparently unfazed by the reputation of the group's notoriously hair-triggered legal department, leaves few stones unhurled."Shortly before the book's publication, a video produced by the Church of Scientology featuring Tom Cruise promoting his beliefs appeared on the Internet. After the Church of Scientology sent a legal complaint to the online video-sharing website YouTube, the video was taken down from that site, but is available on Gawker.com. A group of Internet users calling themselves "Anonymous" subsequently announced a "War on Scientology" including denial-of-service attacks against the Church of Scientology's main websites. Andreas Heldal-Lund, founder of the Scientology-critical site and Norway-based non-profit organization Operation Clambake released a statement on Tuesday critical of the actions of the "Anonymous" group, saying that the Church of Scientology deserves the right to freedom of speech.Actor Jerry O'Connell, who had previously acted alongside Cruise in the 1996 film Jerry Maguire, produced a parody of the Cruise video which was released on Wednesday. Other Hollywood acquaintances of Cruise, including comedians Adam Sandler and Ben Stiller, released statements defending Cruise and criticizing those who have mocked him for his beliefs. Sandler stated "To see anyone’s private life invaded and mocked like this is sickening," and Stiller commented "People lose sight of the fact that Tom Cruise is actually a person. I feel for him."On Wednesday the Associated Press reported that Cruise will be a presenter at the Screen Actors Guild Awards ceremony on Sunday.The World Cup is not the only international competition going on this summer.  With vacation and beach reading season in full swing, American readers find themselves trailing their reading counterparts across the pond.For the first time in  five years, American production of new book titles trails that of Great Britain, a country of one-fifth the population of the USA, the Kansas City Star recently reported.  Last year, production of new titles in the UK surpassed 206,000, compared with 172,000 in America.Bowker, a consulting firm following the publishing industry, suspects that as America's wealth increases, more entertainment options compete with books for Americans' leisure time.  The figure does not necessarily reflect whether Americans read books less than Brits, and does not, for example, track the comparative reading of reprints and classics.Universal Studios and Fox Broadcasting are sending cease-and-desist letters to websites that offer t-shirts related to the television program Firefly and its sequel film Serenity.One cease and desist letter, for example, reads:Affected by the cease-and-desist letters is CaféPress, a website which enables people to open their own store — they have since stopped allowing people to search for Firefly merchandise.Firefly premiered and was cancelled in 2002 after 11 episodes aired. Many fans who watched and enjoyed the short-lived show were part of a cult following that encouraged Joss Whedon to create a film called "Serenity" in 2005. There are no current plans for a sequel or the revival of the Firefly series.According to a University of Maine student government representative, the university may file a lawsuit against rock band My Chemical Romance due to a cancelled show.The band cited health concerns for drummer Bob Bryar in the cancellation notification on Thursday, but played a show on the proceeding Friday. The cancellation reason is considered an 'Act of God', and relieves both parties from any obligations."Unless it is truly due to sickness or injury of the band, we intend to seek full damages for breach of contract. When they played Friday night, I think that kind of voids an 'Act of God' claim," Derek Mitchell, the vice president of student entertainment said. The lawsuit, if agreed upon by the General Student Senate, would seek US$20,500 for advertising, ticket sales, contractor fees, and cancellation fees.Miss Connecticut, Erin Brady, has been announced Miss USA 2013 at the Planet Hollywood Resort and Casino in Las Vegas on June 16, 2013.The 25-year-old stunner beat out 50 other beauty pageant competitors from every U.S State and Washington D.C.The beauty queen from East Hampton has more to offer than just her good looks! Brady is an accountant and after winning the prestigious title, said she could not wait to tell her bosses at Prudnetial Financial that she would not be coming in to work tomorrow.   Brady's family and fiance cheered her on from the audience as she competed in an orange bikini for the swimsuit section and later appearing in a strapless white and gold ball gown for the evening wear judging. The question and answer component of the competition saw Brady confidently answer a question regarding the U.S Supreme Court's decision to uphold widespread DNA tests.In response to the question, Brady said "If someone is being prosecuted and committed a crime, it should happen. There are so many crimes that if that's one step closer to stopping them, then we should be able to do so."Miss Utah, Marissa Powell, is the latest beauty queen to become an internet sensation over a muddled answer. In response to a question about gender salary inequality in the workforce, Miss Utah suggested, after rambling, "and so we need to try to figure out how to create education better so that we can solve this problem. Thank you.” Brady will compete against the world's most beautiful women in the Miss Universe pageant held in Moscow, Russia later this year.For the first time, the American version of Big Brother will not be airing their traditional "live eviction" episode Thursday night as normally scheduled. Instead, the show will be taped, with host Julie Chen and the studio audience requested four hours earlier than normal.The reason for the change is due to the expected use of the "Coup d'Etat" power, which allows America's chosen HouseGuest to remove the current nominations and place his own with no warning mere minutes before the final vote. Fan favorite Jeff Schroeder, who has ranked #1 in TV Guide's "power rankings" for the second week in a row, was given the power a week ago after a nationwide televote.Fellow HouseGuest Chima Benson, who is currently the Head of Household, threatened to go "batcrap crazy" on the house's live feeds earlier this week, threatening the stability of the live show. In the first week's live eviction, she delivered an impromptu tirade against nominee Braden Bacha for his racist remarks against other HouseGuests, causing Benson to be placed on a time delay to censor her language.TV Guide did not receive any comment by press time about the scrapped live broadcast. Big Brother, now in its eleventh season, is seeing a ratings resurgence, topping the ratings received from the same time last year, with over seven million people watching the three weekly episodes. The eviction in question airs Thursday at 8 p.m. EDT on CBS.Due to a growing US Hispanic population, the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) announced that all primetime shows in their upcoming lineup will be closed captioned in both English and Spanish.  In addition, four of the shows, as well as many theatrically-released films and other specials, will be dubbed in Spanish.The move was a major one for ABC.  Previously, only the Hispanic comedy The George Lopez Show was captioned and dubbed in Spanish.  "We wanted to move beyond toe-dipping and really dive in," said Stephen McPherson, ABC entertainment chief. "Almost half of the 41 million Hispanics in this country watch only or mostly Spanish-language television, and we want to bring that audience to ABC."The SAP function allows an optional second audio transmission, which may be used for transmitting programs in Spanish.  However, the additional costs of hiring voice actors to provide Spanish dialogue, as well as production costs, have been prohibitive for most networks.  McPherson said that while it was "not inexpensive", having Spanish-speaking viewership could yield a significant benefit.George Lopez will continue to air, dubbed in Spanish.  In addition, two of the network's most popular shows, Desperate Housewives and Lost, as well as the new comedy Freddie, will be dubbed; Spanish voice actors are currently being cast for the roles.Actor, director, and artist Dennis Hopper has died today at the age of 74. He was known to suffer from prostate cancer since October 2009.He was born Dennis Lee Hopper on May 17, 1936 in Dodge City, Kansas.  As a young man, Hopper became interested in acting and eventually became a student of the Actors Studio.  He made his first television appearance in 1955, and appeared in two films featuring James Dean, Rebel Without a Cause (1955) and Giant (1956).  Over the next ten years, Hopper appeared frequently on television in guest roles, and by the end of the 1960s had played supporting roles in several films.  He directed and starred in Easy Rider (1969), winning an award at the Cannes Film Festival, and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay as co-writer of the film's script.Hopper was unable to build on this success for several years, until a featured role in Apocalypse Now (1979) brought him attention.  He subsequently received critical recognition for his work in Blue Velvet and Hoosiers, with the latter film garnering him an Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor.  Hopper's more recent work included a leading role in the television series Crash.Hopper was a prolific photographer, painter, and sculptor whose works have been exhibited worldwide.On January 12, 2010, several months after the cancer diagnosis, Hopper had filed for divorce from his wife Victoria Duffy leading to an extended public feud between the couple over the course of the following months.US actor Gary Coleman died Friday at the Utah Valley Regional Medical Center in Provo, Utah, after complications from a brain hemorrhage. Coleman was admitted to the hospital on May 26 after falling and injuring his head. He went into a coma on May 27 and required life support. He was taken off life support and died shortly after noon on Friday. He was 42 years old.Coleman had been suffering multiple medical problems throughout his life, however, it is unknown if these problems affected his death. He suffered from a congenital kidney disease which required two transplants and daily dialysis. On February 27, 2010 Coleman suffered a seizure on the set of the television show The Insider.Coleman's career began with appearances in US sit-com's such as The Jeffersons and Good Times. He was best known for his recurring role as Arnold Jackson on Diff'rent Strokes and his recurring line, "What'choo talkin' 'bout, Willis?".Two-time Emmy Award-winning American-born actor, Patrick McGoohan, famed for his role as Number Six in the 1960s cult British television series The Prisoner, has died at the Saint John's Health Center, Santa Monica, California.He died on January 13, following a short illness at the age of 80. McGoohan's death was made public by his son-in-law, film producer Cleve Landsberg.Born in New York City, and raised in the UK and Ireland, the actor played in numerous series on both continents.  Aside from The Prisoner, his notable roles were in the ITV network series Armchair Theatre and Danger Man. McGoohan was also considered for the role of the iconic spy James Bond.It is for the series The Prisoner, filmed in Portmeirion, North Wales, that he will be best remembered. The show's tagline, "I am not a number, I am a free man!" emphasised the primary focus of the series, McGoohan's escape from his captor, "Number One". McGoohan leaves behind his wife Joan Drummond McGoohan, three daughters, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.File:Peter Falk Columbo.JPGUS actor Peter Falk died on Thursday at his home in Beverly Hills, California after a struggle with Alzheimer's disease. Falk may be most known for his role as Detective Columbo in the television series of the same name that ran on NBC from 1968 to 1978, which moved to ABC in 1989. The last episode aired in 2003. His portrayal of the character won him four Emmy Awards.Falk, born in 1927, had his right eye surgically removed at the age of three, due to a cancerous growth. He wore a glass eye for most of his life. Because of this, he was rejected by the armed services at the end of World War II.Falk starred in his first crime film, Murder, Inc. in 1960, for which he was nominated for an Academy Award. In Blake Edwards's 1965 film The Great Race, he appeared with Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis, and Natalie Wood.Falk is survived by his wife and two daughters.The highest grossing films in the United States box offices are: Snakes on a Plane with $15.25 millionTalladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby with $14.1 millionWorld Trade Center with $10.8 millionAccepted with $10.1 millionStep Up with $9.9 millionA study conducted by Harvard University researchers has concluded that children who attend an Independence Day celebration are more likely to become Republicans as adults. Even attending a single fireworks display or flag-waving parade, specifically celebrations without rain, can be predictive of a child's future political leanings and voting habits. "One Fourth of July without rain before age 18 increases the likelihood of identifying as a Republican at age 40 by 2 percent, the share of people voting for the Republican candidate at age 40 by 4 percent, and the share of people turning out to vote at age 40 by 0.9 percent," the researchers claim. Moreover, the data does not suggest that the Democratic base is affected at all by the holiday celebrations. "There is no evidence of an increased likelihood of identifying as a Democrat, indicating that Fourth of July shifts preferences to the right rather than increasing political polarization," the study claims.David Yanagizawa-Drott, a public policy professor at Harvard and a co-author of the study, suggests that "the celebration of Fourth of July embodies certain ideas or values that are closer to the Republican Party," but adds that further study is needed to explain this trend. Another explanation offered by the study is that celebrations in Republican-dominated areas may tend to be more politically charged.On Friday, US director and screenwriter James Gunn was fired from work on Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3 for Marvel Studios reportedly for his offensive tweets from 2008 to 2011 about, amongst other things, rape and paedophilia.In a statement, Walt Disney Studios' Chairman Alan Horn said, "The offensive attitudes and statements discovered on James' Twitter feed are indefensible and inconsistent with our studio's values, and we have severed our business relationship with him".The Walt Disney Company owns Marvel Studios. James Gunn wrote the screenplay and directed Marvel movies Guardians of the Galaxy, released in 2014, and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, released in 2017. Based on the comic book characters in the Marvel Comics, the movie franchise featured Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, Dave Bautista, Karen Gillian  as well as Bradley Cooper and Vin Diesel as voice cast for CGI characters. The two movies earned a worldwide box office revenue of about USD 773 million and USD 864 million per Box Office Mojo's statistics. Gunn had been writing the third movie in the franchise reportedly to be released in 2020.Responding to his firing, James Gunn said, "My words of nearly a decade ago were, at the time, totally failed and unfortunate efforts to be provocative. I have regretted them for many years since — not just because they were stupid, not at all funny, wildly insensitive, and certainly not provocative like I had hoped, but also because they don't reflect the person I am today or have been for some time. Regardless of how much time has passed, I understand and accept the business decisions taken today. Even these many years later, I take full responsibility for the way I conducted myself then."In one of the old tweets, Gunn wrote, "The best thing about being raped is when you're done being raped and it's like 'whew this feels great, not being raped!'"Dave Bautista, who portrays Drax the Destroyer in Gunn's Marvel movies, tweeted about Gunn's dismissal saying, "James Gunn is one of the most loving, caring, good natured people I have ever met. He's gentle and kind and cares deeply for people and animals. He's made mistakes. We all have. I'm NOT ok with what's happening to him".After Gunn was fired, David Dastmalchian, an actor in the latest Marvel Studios movie Ant-Man and the Wasp wrote on Instagram, "i've been saying this FOR YEARS! @jamesgunn is one of the most amazing people I've ever known - both professionally & personally. there are so many people in our lives that we would never have known without the incredible magnet of talent & goodness that is James [...] thanks for making us a part of your family, buddy."This week, a taste of autumn is in the air throughout northern portions of the United States. Cold air is slowly seeping in from the arctic, and the leaves are just beginning to change in certain areas as summer fades away. In the Northeastern U.S., fall colors have begun to arrive atop mountains in parts of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont and New York. The highest elevations of the Adirondack Mountains are already at their mid-point in terms of fall foliage. However, most trees remain green in the Midwest and the Southeast, with some color on a few diseased trees.Parts of the Western United States, especially higher elevations of Utah, have reported slight to moderate color.Phoenix, Arizona — Last weekend, Phoenix fans of comics, science fiction, horror, fantasy, cos-play, anime and manga, Society for Creative Anachronism, and more, marked a milestone as the city held its tenth annual Phoenix Comicon at the Phoenix Convention Center. The event — which is entirely the work of more than 700 volunteers according to coordinator Colin Aprill — generated around US$5 million for the "Valley of the Sun" during its four-day run.  Wikinews was there.As one unknown source from the crowd was overheard saying, "It's all about the fans." Descending into the hall by escalator gave a sense of the scale to the creativity in the center. Fans could be seen scattering about in a flurry of motion on their way from one event to another and producing their own spectacle, most in costume, on their way. This year the four-day convention in the Valley was estimated to set a new attendance record as 30,000 visitors showed. Most were clothed in costumes that transformed themselves into Batmans, creeper box heads, furries, Lady and Knight couple, pirates, pixies, Star Trek officers, Star Wars' Empire troopers, Superwomen, and zombies. One of the most common activities at Comicon was people taking photos of each other while they took turns posing or snapping shots.The Camp family stopped intermittently to have their photos taken by others. The Camps were led by eldest brother Jim "Batman" Camp. He attended Comicon with his sister Tina "Good Witch" Camp, who brought her daughter Katie "Super Woman." Sibling Tony Camp, who attended with his daughter Stella "Bat Girl," was said to be "the instigator" behind the family's turnout at Comicon. "You get to be dressed up and can act goofy, and you don't feel weird because everybody is dressing up, too," said Tony about the family-friendly event. The exhibit hall was filled with artists and merchants selling comic books, trinkets, memorabilia, wares and keepsakes. Amidst the shoppers, the photo opportunities continued to attract the most attention. For all the star-studded autograph booths and an artist alley with famed comic book artists, the most fun was simply enjoying the presence of other fans in costume. The Thirteenth Floor Haunted House took advantage of the photo-op activity by supplying monsters "Nemesis" and "Collosus" for more of this activity. Manager Tim Pugsley says the company owns five out of the top 1300 haunted houses in the United States. The monsters' human counterparts remained anonymous on purpose. "The characters don't get ruined that way," said a handler. Montana E. had his picture taken with "Nemesis" by friend Joey Deihl, while Eddie Deleon and young Raquel Munguia posed with "Collosus."Fans also gathered Saturday for a flash mob event, in which people danced or acted to Michael Jackson's mega-hit song "Thriller". An entertainment group calling themselves "The Zombie Chicks" attended the flash mob and then later drifted in trance through the exhibitor hall of the convention center. "We're here for the performance, not for the stuff," said Tori Hoganson, who pointed like a bored consumer at the trinkets in a stall. She was careful to use as few words as possible to speak her mind out of character before going back mindfully to her mindless performance. She was accompanied by her friends, who in human form are known as Emmalaine Wright and Lyle Yanak. The group was watched closely and held at bay by "The Keeper" Ben Fondren, who lurked nearby as a faceless shadow.The fans also turned out to see big stars, like William Shatner, who portrayed Captain Kirk in the original Star Trek series; LeVar Burton, who is synonymous with the ship's engineer Geordi La Forge in Star Trek: The Next Generation; or Jon Bernthal, who was the sometimes hero and sometimes anti-hero Shane Walsh in the TV series The Waking Dead.Father and son John and David Phelps, who are both Star Trek fans, attended the event together and were excited to see Shatner. "He can be funny, but he's also fun to laugh at," said John Phelps with a smile. His son David liked to laugh at Shatner when the artist attempted to sing. Shatner has had an alternative "tongue-in-cheek" career singing hits such as "Common People" on the 2004 album Has Been.Hunter Lewis got Jon Bernthal's autograph, which came penned with the message, "I F@&#'in hate Zombies." Zombies were the main source of the angst that bedeviled characters in his hit TV show. Hunter's friends Justin Rose, Ryan Scola and Taylor Fagen also met with Bernthal in the autograph line. This was just one of many examples of how friends and family were bonding and sharing together in the spectacle throughout the convention center.There were also breakout sessions for classes, performances, gaming, and crafts. Nyki Robertson Crosby, a.k.a. "Lady Thunder," who is the matriarch of one of the largest houses for the Society for Creative Anachronism in the Phoenix area, sponsored a class on creating a "Basic T-shirt Tunic" so that anyone who wanted to attend an S.C.A. event in costume could fit in with a minimal investment in time, effort and money. She said the secret is to create a costume that could be one someone would wear between 600–1600 A.D. "We're the Society of Creative Anachronism and not the Society of Creative Accuracy," Robertson Crosby said.The Phoenix Comicon was carnivalesque in its look and feel. And it spread well beyond the convention center as knights and Wonderland characters and more walked the streets of Phoenix and lunched and dined with the "civilians". The civilians were the ones who kept asking, "What's going on?"They may have been "out of towners" visiting the "Valley of the Sun" between May 24–27, because after ten years, Phoenix now has an established tradition.This year's largest Comicon is to be Comic-Con International San Diego 2012, July 12–15 in California.Massachusetts-based First Amendment rights lawyer Marc Randazza is defending a controversial parody website which satirizes American political commentator Glenn Beck. The website was created in September by a man from Florida named Isaac Eiland-Hall, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics "to spread lies and misinformation".The website created by Eiland-Hall is located at the domain name "www.GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlIn1990.com". Its premise is derived from a joke statement made by Gilbert Gottfried about fellow comedian Bob Saget. The joke was first applied to Beck on the Internet discussion community Fark. It then became popular on Internet social media sites including Reddit and Digg, and was the subject of a Google bomb, a technique where individuals link phrases in order to artificially change Google search results. Eiland-Hall saw the discussion on Fark, and created a website about it. The website asserts it does not believe the rumors to be true, and states: "But we think Glenn Beck definitely uses tactics like this to spread lies and misinformation." In an interview with Ars Technica, he said the website was "using Beck's tactics against him". The website was created on September 1, and by September 3 attorneys for Beck's company Mercury Radio Arts took action. Beck's lawyers sent letters to the domain name registrar where they referred to the domain name itself as "defamatory", but they failed to get the site removed.Beck filed a formal complaint with the Switzerland-based agency of the United Nations, the World Intellectual Property Organization. Beck alleged that the website's usage is libelous, bad faith, and could befuddle potential consumers. Beck's complaint was filed under the process called the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy. The policy allows trademark owners to begin an administrative action by complaining that a certain domain registration is in "bad faith". A lawyer for Beck declined to provide a comment to the Boston Herald, however a source told the newspaper that Beck's complaint with the site is primarily a "trademark issue".Randazza established an attorney-client relationship with Eiland-Hall after his client received threatening letters from attorneys representing Beck. He then sent an email to Beck's attorneys, and pointed out inconsistencies between their client's recent actions and his prior public statements in support of the First Amendment. Randazza wrote a reply to the World Intellectual Property Organization, and contends that the website is "protected political speech", because it is "satirical political humor". Randazza stated that "Even an imbecile would look at this Web site and know that it’s a parody." In his legal brief, Randazza compared the website to other Internet memes, such as "All your base are belong to us" and video parodies of the German film Downfall. "We are here because Mr. Beck wants Respondent's website shut down. He wants it shut down because Respondent's website makes a poignant and accurate satirical critique of Mr. Beck by parodying Beck's very rhetorical style," wrote Randazza in the brief. The brief also commented on Beck's style of reporting, and pointed out a controversial statement made by Beck when he interviewed a Muslim member of the United States Congress. Beck said to Representative Keith Ellison: "I like Muslims, I've been to mosques. ... And I have to tell you, I have been nervous about this interview because what I feel like saying is, sir, prove to me that you are not working with our enemies." According to the Citizen Media Law Project, the website's joke premise takes advantage of "a perceived similarity between Beck's rhetorical style and the Gottfried routine".Public interest attorney Paul Levy told Ars Technica that if a statement in a website's domain name were both false and "stated with actual malice", it is possible it could be considered defamatory. The First Post reported that Electronic Frontier Foundation attorney Corynne McSherry gave an analysis asserting that though the domain name of the website is "pretty dramatic", it constituted "pure political criticism and there's nothing wrong with that". McSherry and Levy both agreed that the action of Beck to take the matter to the World Intellectual Property Organization was probably a tactic to determine the identity of the website's owner.Andy Carvin of National Public Radio wrote that Randazza's legal brief was amusing, commenting: "It's not often that I would recommend reading a World Intellectual Property Organization legal brief for its entertainment value, but today is going to be an exception." Nate Anderson of Ars Technica commented "In any event, the WIPO battle promises to be entertaining, and there's even a bit of serious purpose mixed in with the frivolity. Just how far can WIPO go in using its domain dispute system to address Internet spats?". Domain Name Wire wrote that "...when someone who has created a bitingly satirical web site works with his lawyer to put pen to the paper, the end result can be quite amusing."Writing for Adweek, Eriq Gardner pointed out the comparison made by Randazza's legal brief between the website's parody nature itself and the statement made by Beck to Congressman Ellison, noting: "this case also makes a political point". Jack Bremer wrote in The First Post that the attempts by Beck's lawyers to argue that the website's domain name is itself defamatory "looks like a first in cyber law". Rick Sawyer of Bostonist characterized Randazza's legal brief as "Hillarious!", and called the attorney "among the North Shore's most hilarious legal writers". The FOX News-critical site FoxNewsBoycott.com likened the legal conflict between Beck and the site to the Streisand effect, a phenomenon where an individual's attempt to censor material on the Internet in turn proves to make the material itself more public. "Glenn Beck is experiencing the Streisand Effect first hand," wrote FoxNewsBoycott.com. John Cook of Gawker.com also compared Beck's actions to the Streisand effect: "Now Glenn Beck's trying to shut down their web site, ensuring that people will write about it." Jeffrey Weiss of Politics Daily wrote that by taking legal action, Beck "did the one thing guaranteed to garner the greatest amount of publicity for the site". Techdirt described Beck's legal action as "not particularly smart", and noted: "Beck would have been better off just ignoring it. Instead, in legitimizing it by trying to take it down, many more people become aware of the meme -- and may start calling attention to situations where Beck (and others) make use of such tactics." The blog Hot Air noted the issue could gain attention if it becomes a test case for the First Amendment: "If this becomes a First Amendment test case, the smear’s going to be covered far and wide..."Wikinews interviewed US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza, on his defense of a parody website which satirizes American political commentator Glenn Beck. Florida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics "to spread lies and misinformation". The case Beck v. Eiland-Hall is currently before the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland. Wikinews previously reported on the case, in an article earlier this month, "US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck".The day after several major websites staged a mass blackout over proposed United States anti piracy legislation, namely the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and the PROTECT IP Act (PIPA) proposals, members of online activist group Anonymous have knocked US Justice Department, Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI), Recording Industry Association of America's (RIAA) and Universal Music (UMG)'s websites offline in apparently coordinated web attacks. Several other websites such as BMI.com were also taken offline.At about 4:15 p.m. EST both www.justice.gov, www.fbi.gov, and www.universalmusic.com went offline. Shortly after 5:00 p.m. the RIAA's website also went dark. At the time of this report, all three websites are still offline. Just after 6:00 p.m., Universal Music Group shut down their website for "maintenance." In postings to Twitter, members of Anonymous claim responsibility, saying the attacks are a response to the FBI's seizure and shutdown of file-sharing website Megaupload, and in protest against the American anti-piracy laws. The group calls this "the largest attack ever by Anonymous" with over 5,600 people participating in the attack."The government takes down Megaupload? 15 minutes later Anonymous takes down government & record label sites. Expect us," stated a message from 'YourAnonNews' on Twitter. Another member of Anonymous told RT News that there are more attacks to come.Megaupload was a file-sharing website boasting over 50 million visits per day. On Thursday the FBI seized and shutdown the website, arresting its founder and three other people. A total of seven people connected to the website were arrested and indicted on charges that include copyright infringement, racketeering, and conspiracy to commit money laundering. Authorities say Megaupload allowed individuals to download movies "often before their theatrical release, music, television programs, electronic books, and business and entertainment software on a massive scale." They also claim the website was costing entertainment industry copyright-holders "well in excess of US$500 million" in damages.Today, the United States is marking Veterans Day at various events across the country.In Washington, D.C., many people observe the day by visiting the Vietnam War Memorial, which was opened 25 years ago. Later, a wreath-laying ceremony took place to honor military veterans buried at Arlington National Cemetery just outside Washington.In the Chicago area, the Edward Hines Jr. VA Hospital had a dedication ceremony, to commemorate a gift of 500 new wheelchairs from the Wheelchair Foundation and the Knights of Columbus. It provided an opportunity for soldiers of different generations to meet."It's an honor to shake hands with veterans who came before me," said Christian Tecson, to the Chicago Tribune. Tecson, 27, who is in the National Guard, served two tours of duty in Iraq with the Marine Corps. "They paved the way for us, and we're carrying on the tradition."In Denver, like so many other cities, a parade was held on this day. However, the Denver United Veterans Council told a number of anti-war groups that they were not invited, regardless of whether they were also veterans groups. In the end, they were permitted to march in the parade, but got a mixed reaction from the crowd. "Leave your politics at home! This is about veterans, not politics," shouted Alex Cuellar.Presidential candidate John McCain paid tribute to veterans at the New Hampshire Veterans Cemetery. McCain, in turn, received praise for his own service by the other speakers."The war and Iraq has divided America, but none of us is divided in our appreciation and our love and affection for those men and women in the military who are serving the cause of freedom," McCain said in his speech. "Some of us here were in another war where America was divided in their support and that made our challenge of welcoming and bringing home all of veterans all the harder."In Boston, Massachusetts' Govenor Deval Patrick honored the five surviving Tuskegee Airmen. Patrick called them "heroic pioneers," as he presented them with the Congressional Gold Medal, which they were awarded in March. At the same event, Air Force Captain Jenny D’Olympia, an Iraq War veteran, led a tribute to women veterans.President George W. Bush said in his weekly radio address: "America owes a debt of gratitude to all those who have served in our Armed Forces. On Veterans Day, we remember those who have served in previous wars, those who are serving today, and those who did not live to become veterans."Veterans Day is largely intended to thank veterans for their service, to acknowledge that their contributions to United States national security are appreciated, and to underscore the fact that all those who served — not only those who died — have sacrificed and done their duty. It was first observed on November 11, 1919, a year after the Armistice with Germany, though then it was known as Armistice Day, which is observed in many other countries.Pulitzer Prize-winning American novelist John Updike has died of lung cancer at a hospice near his home in Beverly Farms, Massachusetts. He was 76.Born John Hoyer Updike in Reading, Pennsylvania in 1932, he documented ordinary — if highly sexualized — American life in around 50 works, beginning with The Poorhouse Fair in 1959. He once said that his books were about "the American small town, Protestant middle class".The son of a Pennsylvania school teacher who worked in the holidays as a laborer, he was educated at Harvard University — where he edited the magazine Lampoon — and United Kingdom's The Ruskin School of Drawing and Fine Art. From there, he went on to write for The New Yorker.After The Poorhouse Fair, he introduced the character of Harold 'Rabbit' Angstrom in his 1960 work Rabbit, Run. His two Pulitzer prizes were won for further books featuring the character: Rabbit Is Rich and Rabbit at Rest. His 1984 novel The Witches of Eastwick was made into a film starring Jack Nicholson, Cher and Susan Sarandon. His work drew criticism as well as awards, not least for his depiction of female characters and voyeuristic passages describing rape.He was ambivalent about his reputation, noting in his 1989 autobiography Self-Consciousness that he was aware of "my ponderously growing oeuvre, dragging behind me like an ever-heavier tail". As well as the Pulitzer prizes, Updike won many literary awards, including the National Medal for Humanities in 2003. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.Updike had two daughters, Elizabeth and Miranda, and two sons, David and Michael, by his first wife Mary. His second wife Martha survives him.The bestselling US novelist Tom Clancy died yesterday in a hospital in Baltimore, according to his publisher. The sixty-six year old is best known for a series of novels themed around espionage, military affairs and geopolitical intrigue, many of which have been adapted into movies and video games.The Hunt for Red October, Clancy's first novel, sold over five million copies and was made into a movie with Alec Baldwin and Sean Connery. President Ronald Reagan described the novel as a "perfect yarn". The protagonist of Red October, CIA analyst Jack Ryan, starred in a series of Clancy adventures featuring wars, terrorist attacks and international political power games. Ryan has been played by Harrison Ford and later Ben Affleck.Seventeen of his twenty novels have reached number one on the New York Times bestseller list. In 2002, Forbes magazine estimated Clancy's earnings at US$47.8m. His final novel, Command Authority, is to be published in December.US columnist and grammarian James J. Kilpatrick has died aged 89.  Marianne Means, Kilpatrick’s wife, said that he died on Sunday evening.  At the time of his death he was being treated for congestive heart failure. After starting his career writing about racial issues in the south, Kilpatrick became one of the nation’s best known Conservative columnists.  His column, “A Conservative View”, was published in over one hundred newspapers across the United States.  As well as voicing his opinions in newspapers, Kilpatrick was 60 Minutes Conservative representative for the segment Point-Counterpoint.  This sparred him against Liberal journalist Nicholas von Hoffman and later commentator Shana Alexander.Tributes were paid to Kilpatrick by several Conservatives, including 1960’s youth group leader Richard Viguerie who said that "Before there was a Bill Buckley, before there was a Ronald Reagan or Rush Limbaugh, there was James Jackson Kilpatrick explaining public-policy issues from a conservative perspective."Kilpatrick is survived by his second wife and three sons from his first marriage.On Friday, rapper Mac Miller was found dead in his bedroom at home in San Fernando Valley, Los Angeles, California, United States, according to reports. He was 26.According to news website TMZ, a friend called emergency services from Mac Miller's apartment, in regard to a cardiac arrest. According to the coroner, Mac Miller was pronounced dead at the scene.Investigation was ongoing to identify the cause of the death.Reports said Mac Miller previously abused drugs, which reportedly affected his two-year relationship with singer Ariana Grande.  They broke up in May this year.Mac Miller was an US rapper, singer and record producer. He was born Malcolm James McCormick in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, US in 1992. In 2007, at the age of fifteen, he released his first mixtape under the nickname "EZ Mac". He later switched to name "Mac Miller".United States rap star Nate Dogg has died at the age of 41. The cause of death was reported by his attorney as complications from two strokes that Nate Dogg, whose real name is Nathaniel Dwayne Hale, had suffered in the past few years. During his career, Hale collaborated with several big names including Eminem, Dr Dre, and Ludacris.Rapper and actor Snoop Dogg who went to school with Hale paid tribute to his friend on Twitter, "We lost a true legend n hip hop n rnb. One of my best friends n a brother to me since 1986 when I was a sophomore at poly high where we met. I love u buddy luv. U will always b wit me 4ever n a day u put the g n g funk u put the 1 n 213 n u put yo stamp on evrybdy u ever didit wit. I miss u cuzz I am so sad but so happy I got to grow up wit u and I will c u again n heaven cuz u know d slogan. All doggs go to heaven yo homie n baby brotha bigg snoopdogg!!"Hale started his rap career in the early 1990s, and formed rap trio 213 with Snoop Dogg and Warren G in 1991. After collaborating with several of rap's big names including the late Tupac Shakur, Hale went on to release three of his own albums. In December 2007, he was left paralyzed down one side of his body after a stroke. He suffered a second stroke in September 2008.Anthony Weiner announced his resignation yesterday afternoon as a Democratic representative from New York to the U.S. House of Representatives, a position he has filled for twelve years. He has been under pressure from politicians within his own party after a sex scandal engulfed his life and that of the Democratic party.Weiner told reporters it was "impossible" to continue in his role after the events of the last few weeks, including revelations that he was involved in sexual relationships with a number of young women over the internet, including sending lewd photos of himself, and then lying about his actions to reporters.  He announced his resignation at a press conference in a Brooklyn senior center where 20 years ago he began his political career and apologized for his "personal mistakes". His wife, Huma Abedin, did not accompany him, but Weiner apologized to her in his speech, saying that he hopes "most importantly, that my wife and I can continue to heal from the damage that I've caused." He took no questions from reporters.On June 6, Weiner had admitted to corresponding with women he met on the internet, including  exchanging lewd photos. But on June 11 he declared  in an emotional interview he would not resign.  Under pressure from Democrats, Weiner  requested a two-week leave of absence from his position in order to obtain treatment to become "a better husband and healthier person." However, Democratic politicians became increasingly anxious to put the growing scandal behind them, as it distracted members from more important issues such as problems with Medicare and the need for more jobs.  As the scandal gained momentum, a variety of politicians, including Nancy Pelosi, the House Minority Leader, called on him to resign. President Barack Obama said he would resign if he were in Weiner's place in an interview with ABC News."Weiner exercised poor judgment in his actions and poor judgment in his reaction to the revelations," Pelosi said in a statement after Weiner announced his resignation. "Today, he made the right judgment in resigning." The scandal came to light May 27 after Weiner accidentally sent a photograph of his crotch on his public stream on the social networking website Twitter, and then tried to cover it up by blaming hackers for posting the picture, denying all responsibility.Weiner later admitted sending online messages to other women, including to a 17-year-old high school student in Delaware, though a police investigation uncovered nothing illegal. On Wednesday, a former porn actress revealed that she had engaged in an online relationship with Weiner and that Weiner had asked her to lie about the nature of their contact. More photos have continued to emerge, including one showing his nude genitals, and others showing him half naked. On Wednesday, the National Enquirer published images of Weiner cross-dressing while he was a college student at the State University of New York at Plattsburgh. In one photo, he is seen wearing a bra and pantyhose, while in another he is oiled and wearing swimming trunks.Colleagues  said Weiner wanted to wait for the return home of his wife, Abedin, before making a final career decision. He has been married for almost a year to Abedin, who is pregnant with the couple's first child. She is a top aide to Hillary Clinton, the Secretary of State, and the couple's wedding was presided over by former President Bill Clinton. She returned home to Washington, D.C. on Wednesday morning after having traveled with Clinton in the Middle East and Africa since June 8. Weiner's district covers parts of Brooklyn and Queens, boroughs of New York City. He ran an unsuccessful campaign for mayor of New York City in 2005, and he was considered a potential candidate for future races. Known to be an outspoken supporter of liberal causes, he has irked conservatives and Democratic leaders. In 2009, he pushed for government-run health care, even though Obama had opposed the idea.At the age of 66, US rock musician Tom Petty suffered cardiac arrest on Monday morning and died that evening at the UCLA Medical Center, Santa Monica in California, according to reports.Petty, born in Gainesville, Florida in 1950, was best known as the lead singer of Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers. With the Heartbreakers and as a solo artist, Petty recorded a number of hit singles. He was one of the best-selling music artists of all time, selling more than 80 million records worldwide over the course of his career. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2002. Petty also co-founded the late 1980s supergroup the Traveling Wilburys.Petty had a number of acting roles on film and television, playing a the mayor of a post-apocalyptic town in the 1997 Kevin Costner film The Postman. In 2002, Petty appeared on The Simpsons episode "How I Spent My Strummer Vacation" and from 2004 to 2009 voiced character Lucky on King of the Hill.Petty married Jane Benyo in 1974, and they divorced in 1996. With Benyo, Petty had two daughters, Adria and Annakim. He married Dana York in 2001, acquiring a stepson named Dylan from her earlier marriage.  He is also survived by a younger brother, Bruce, and a granddaughter, Everly.American singer, Brandy Norwood, known for her role as a judge on America's Got Talent amongst other roles, has been sued for US$50 million by the family of a woman who was killed in a car crash.California Highway Patrol (CHP) said that Brandy, 27, should be charged with a misdemeanor count of vehicular manslaughter for being part of the fatal car crash that killed Awatef Aboudihaj, 38.Aboudihaj's family lawsuit accuses Noorwood, known as Brandy, of "reckless driving".Brandy, in a Land Rover SUV on December 30, 2006, bumped into the Toyota which had Awatef Aboudihaj in it. The Toyota slammed into another vehicle and slid on the freeway's center divider. Aboudihaj was sent to Providence Holy Cross Medical Centre but died the next evening."The accident was a terrible tragedy, and Brandy's heart goes out to Awatef Aboudihaj's family," spokeswoman, Kelly Mullens, said in a statement. "But for legal reasons we cannot comment on this lawsuit."If Brandy is charged, she could face one year in jail and a $1,000 fine.Legendary soul singer Etta James died aged 73 yesterday at Riverside Community Hospital in Riverside, California after a long battle with leukemia. She was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in 2009.James was born in Los Angeles, California as Jamesetta Hawkins on January 25, 1938. She is best known for her 1961 hit At Last. She gained prominence following the success of All I Could Do Was Cry, At last, and Trust in Me.  She won six Grammy Awards.In the 1960's, James developed addiction to heroin and later to cocaine in the 1970's. Despite personal problems, James reinvented herself with the 1988 album Seven Year Itch. Actress Beyoncé Knowles played James in the film Cadillac Records in 2008.James is survived by her husband Artis Mills, and her sons Donto and Sametto.Will Loomis, lead singer of the US music group Loomis & the Lust, is suing UK singer Jessica Cornish, known by her stage name Jessie J, and Universal Music Group, Lava Records, and Universal Republic Records for allegedly using elements of his 2008 song Bright Red Chords in Cornish's 2011 track Domino without his copyright permission. In a written statement to Billboard, Chris Arledge, Loomis's lawyer, said Loomis "never consented to the use of his song" and the prosecuting side "look forward to obtaining an appropriate remedy from the court for this clear infringement".On Loomis & the Lust's Facebook page, Loomis wrote: "When I wrote this melody in my garage I never imagined it would be sung for the King and Queen of England", adding: "I especially never imagined it would be sung by Jessie J." Loomis, of the US state of California, placed a YouTube video of Bright Red Chords with Cornish's vocals overlaid on it, to illustrate the apparent closeness between the two songs, in April. The video was subsequently banned from the website on "copyright grounds" by Cornish's record label.Cornish, Łukasz Gottwald, Kelly Claude, Martin Sandberg, and Henry Walter are attributed as the writers of Domino. Representatives of Cornish and Gottwald have not commented on the case, although Cornish has previously said about the song: "People have heard Domino and said, 'It's nothing like you.' But I'm like, 'Well, the album's really eclectic anyway, and I never go into the studio and say, "I wanna do another song that's like Price Tag or another song like Do It Like a Dude." ' "The week of 12-15 September, American talk show Live with Regis and Kelly will play host to various attempts to set world records, for Guinness World Records. Announced are attempts involving cartwheels, pirouettes and tango spins, and cutting apples with a sword.Today the show previewed the week, with a man who set the record for most ice cream eaten in 30 seconds, 12.5 oz.Last year, Canadian Suresh Joachim set the record for longest continuous time watching television, 69 hours, 48 minutes. Joachim chose to only watch ABC the entire time. Another successful attempt was most watermelons broken by one's head in one minute. Both were nominated for Relly Awards, a sell-congratulatory honour that series producers award guests and the show's hosts, to make up for a lack of Emmy wins.Co-host Regis Philbin was named a Guinness Record holder himself two seasons ago. Philbin has been broadcast on-camera more hours than any other television personality. Philbin's television experience goes back to the late-1960s as the sidekick to Joey Bishop, then continued with a short-lived series with Mary Hart, then the long-running Live, with co-hosts including Kathy Lee Gifford, the popular ABC game show Who Wants to be a Millionaire, the 2005 New Year's broadcast for FOX, and NBC talent series America's Got Talent.Live launched its new season on 4 September, after a few weeks of reruns and "best of" specials. This is Kelly Ripa's fifth season as co-host of the series, which has long past the two-decade marker.The show features a revamped set, containing various art deco elements, and additional plasma televisions to decorate.Television ratings for Conan O'Brien's NBC program The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien have risen dramatically amidst controversy and the possibility that the host might leave the network. Nielsen ratings as of Friday showed that O'Brien's ratings were higher than CBS network's David Letterman. O'Brien also beat out Jay Leno's prime-time program, The Jay Leno Show, in the 18-to-49-year-old demographic.According to the Nielsen data, O'Brien's ratings saw a 50 percent increase over prior numbers for the season. NBC utilizes data from the 18-to-49-year-old demographic in order to determine what prices to set for advertising.On Saturday, NBC was continuing to hold settlement discussions in order to allow The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien host to leave the network and replace O'Brien in the 11:35 p.m. EST time slot with former host of The Tonight Show, Jay Leno. O'Brien's manager, Gavin Polone, spoke positively of the ratings increase, "People who never watched Conan before are saying, 'I'll try it.' Now they're saying, 'this is good, I'll stick with it.'"Polone emphasized in a statement that O'Brien paid his own writers during the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike and was attempting to have a say with regard to the severance packages of his employees. He noted that many of O'Brien's staff members moved from New York to California when the TV host began working on The Tonight Show.Representatives for O'Brien cite poor ratings of Leno's prime-time program The Jay Leno Show, and subsequent poor ratings of NBC late local news, as having an effect on ratings of The Tonight Show with Conan O'Brien prior to the recent controversy.The late night hosts have been discussing the recent NBC time slot controversy via jokes on their shows. O'Brien showed a skit where he had to dodge gunfire while attempting to go to work on the NBC lot. Leno made a joke referencing a statement from last year where Letterman admitted he had had affairs with women on his staff. "Even Dave Letterman is taking shots at me, which surprised me. Usually he's just taking shots at the interns," said Leno. Bill Carter of The New York Times commented that O'Brien, "has turned the attention surrounding his departure into a ratings bonanza." New York Daily News noted, "Well, at least he's going out on top," and commented, "... all eyes are on him now".On Tuesday, United States television personality Conan O'Brien announced in a statement that he will no longer serve as the host for NBC's The Tonight Show if the network's attempt to move his program to the post-midnight time slot comes to fruition.This move, NBC has said, would be done to accommodate the return of the previous Tonight Show host, Jay Leno, back to late-night from his current prime-time slot. In a long statement to the media, O'Brien states that NBC has given him a "scant" seven months to establish himself as host of The Tonight Show.He continues to say that with his show still in "its infancy, NBC has decided to react to their terrible difficulties in prime-time by making a change in their long-established late night schedule."O'Brien adamantly declares that "delaying The Tonight Show into the next day to accommodate another comedy program will seriously damage what I consider to be the greatest franchise in the history of broadcasting." Citing his view that NBC's purposed switch of The Tonight Show time slot could lead to the show's ultimate "destruction," O'Brien maintains that he would have no other choice than to step down as host—which could also include his possible move to another cable network—if this does in fact happen.Television audience ratings for U.S. TV host Conan O'Brien's first TBS program Conan last night were higher than rival Jay Leno and his late night program on NBC, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. O'Brien's ratings were also higher than CBS network's David Letterman, as well as Comedy Central programs hosted by Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert.Monday marked O'Brien's return to late night television after his departure as host of The Tonight Show on NBC following a dispute this year, in which Leno's program The Jay Leno Show was canceled after poor ratings, and NBC reinstated Leno as host of The Tonight Show.O'Brien's debut program featured guests including curator Arlene Wagner of the Leavenworth Nutcracker Museum, actor Seth Rogen and actress Lea Michele. His guest schedule for Tuesday night's program included actors Tom Hanks and Jack McBrayer, in addition to music from the group Soundgarden.The premiere of Conan was watched by over 4.1 million viewers.  Nielsen ratings data made public today showed that Leno's program The Tonight Show was only watched by 3.5 million viewers, and Letterman's Late Show was seen by 3.4 million people. The Daily Show with Jon Stewart and The Colbert Report were watched by 1.3 million and 1 million viewers, respectively.O'Brien announced his move to TBS, a cable channel founded by Ted Turner and owned by Time Warner, in April.O'Brien's viewership trended towards younger people, with 2,451,000 individuals ranges from ages 18 to 34 – and 3,285,000 people in the 18 to 49 age demographic. Leno's The Tonight Show, in comparison, only drew in 950,000 people in the same younger demographic breakdown.In an analysis of O'Brien's ratings win, Dave Itzkoff of The New York Times wrote, "the debut of 'Conan,' the new late-night show starring Conan O’Brien, got off to a strong start". James Hibberd commented for The Hollywood Reporter, "Conan O'Brien is enjoying a sweet, sweet victory in the ratings."The production companies of the United States television programme The X Factor US have confirmed that Cheryl Cole has been removed from the judging panel for the show.Fox Broadcasting Company, the show's broadcaster, made the announcement on Monday alongside FremantleMedia North America and Syco TV, the production companies of the programme. Nicole Scherzinger has also been reported to take up the position Cole will vacate. Steve Jones, a former T4 presenter, will now be the solitary presenter of the programme. The three other judges on the panel will consist of Simon Cowell, Paula Abdul and L.A. Reid.Fox and the production companies have stated: "Nicole Scherzinger will be replacing Cheryl Cole on the judging panel of The X Factor. Nicole will join Simon Cowell, L.A. Reid and Paula Abdul on their search across America to find the next global superstar or group to win the life-changing $5 million dollar recording deal. Nicole has previously joined Simon Cowell as a guest judge on The X Factor for the UK version of the show in 2010. Steve Jones will act as sole host of The X Factor."Having previously been released from her position, Cole declined the opportunity to reclaim her position on the UK version of the show. On Saturday, the programme makers gave Cole a time period of 24 hours to decide whether or not to be a judge on The X Factor US once again; she subquently rejected the offer.92,293 fans watched the University of Southern California Trojans defeat the Penn State Nittany Lions by a score of 38-24 in the 95th annual Rose Bowl Game, which took place Thursday at the Rose Bowl Stadium in Pasadena.USC quarterback Mark Sanchez led the Trojans with 413 passing yards, a career high, and 4 passing touchdowns. The Trojan offense surged in the first half, scoring four touchdowns and a field goal to give USC a 31-7 USC lead at halftime. Prior to the game Penn State's defense only allowed an average of 12.7 points per game.Joe Paterno, Penn State's head coach since 1966, watched his team fall behind early from the stadium's press box due to a hip injury suffered in 2006 after a player collided with him during a game. After USC increased their lead to 24 points, television broadcast a shot of Paterno in the press box shaking his head. Paterno commented: "They certainly deserved to win it, but I'm a little disappointed that we weren't a little bit more competitive. And a lot of that was because we made so many mistakes in the first half."The Trojans compiled a record of 12-1 during their 2008 season, the sole loss coming when the Oregon State Beavers defeated the then-top-ranked Trojans on September 25. A win in that game possibly could have earned them a spot in the BCS National Championship Game, which is set to be played next week between the Florida Gators and the Oklahoma Sooners. On the win, Sanchez commented, "We mixed up the run and the pass so they couldn't really key on anything. I think we really maximized our potential. I don't know if it was a matter of opening up the playbook or us just executing very well. Maybe a little bit of both."The Nittany Lions finished the 2008 season 11-2, with the only regular season loss at the hands of the Iowa Hawkeyes. Incidentally, Penn State defeated Oregon State on September 6, 2008.The polygamist family at the center of the new TLC reality television series Sister Wives are now the subject of a criminal investigation. Yesterday, following Sunday's debut of Sister Wives, police in Lehi, Utah, where the show is set, announced they are investigating Kody Brown and his four wives for possible charges of bigamy.Sister Wives focuses on Brown, his four wives—Meri, Janelle, Christine and Robyn—and his 13 children and three step-children. The family has said they are participating in the show to bring more public awareness to polygamist families and fight societal prejudices.Brown has claimed the arrangement is not illegal because he is only legally married to Meri, and the other marriages are only spiritual unions. However, Lehi police said yesterday that state laws identify bigamy through cohabitation, not just legal contracts. The department plans to turn their findings over to the Utah Attorney General's office at the conclusion of their investigation.TLC contacted the state attorney general's office before the series was broadcast in anticipation of potential legal issues. The office has not explicitly stated they will not charge the Browns, but has stated they do not have the resources to prosecute polygamists unless they are suspected of serious crimes, like child abuse and child trafficking.Art thieves in Greece broke into the Athens National Gallery on Monday and stole three valuable works of art.Among them was a painting by famous Spanish painter Pablo Picasso, dated 1939, called Woman's Head which was a gift to the Greek people for their resistance to the Nazis during World War 2. The other two works were Mill by Piet Mondrian and a sketch of St. Diego de Alcala by Guglielmo Caccia. A fourth painting, Landscape, also by Piet Mondrian was dropped by the thieves when pursued by security. All three works stolen were stripped from their frames.The police stated multiple alarms during the evening of the heist in other parts of the building had distracted the gallery guard. Investigating yet another alarm, he saw the shadow of a fleeing individual. Citizen's Protection Minister Christos Papoutsis apologized for the loss, citing that the security at the gallery was "non-existent".The value of the works stolen was not yet determined by gallery officials. The artwork in question was on display at the gallery as part of an exhibition called "Unknown Treasures", including works of Albrecht Durer and Rembrandt."Five singers, one drummer. No guitars, no bass, no keyboards but nevertheless an unbelievable melodic metal experience."That's how the official website of van Canto describes the band. Hailing from Germany, van Canto are what is called an a capella metal band, the pioneers of this new genre.The band released their debut, A Storm to Come, in December 2006. Exactly a year later, van Canto announced a global signing to Gun Records/Sony BMG, and their debut was released worldwide on December 14.Van Canto are now experiencing considerable success. They recently provided support for Finnish symphonic power metal band Nightwish, as well as receiving a slot at the internationally famous Wacken Open Air festival in Germany. The prestigious event sees them sharing the bill with acts such as Hatebreed, Sonata Arctica, As I Lay Dying, Soilwork, Children of Bodom, Nightwish, Lordi and headline act Iron Maiden.Van Canto's second album will be recorded across this month and next, with famed producer Charlie Bauerfeind, although no release date has yet been confirmed.In light of recent events, van Canto member and founder Stefan Schmidt has given the band's first interview in English, all previous interviews being in German or Italian. Wikinews now exclusively brings you that interview below.A Vincent van Gogh painting has gone missing from the Mahmoud Khalil Museum in Cairo, Egypt. The painting, which was cut from its frame, goes by the name "Poppy Flowers" or "Vase with Flowers" and is valued at approximately $50 million. The work was previously believed to have been recaptured from an Italian couple at Cairo airport, but Egypt's culture minister Farouk Hosni confirmed that the painting was still at large. This is the second time the work has gone missing. It was first stolen in 1978, but was recovered two years later in Kuwait. Details surrounding the original theft are murky, as authorities never revealed  the full details surrounding the charges or trial of the three Egyptians involved in the theft.Painted around 1887, the missing work measures 30 centimetres by 30 centimetres and contains a flower scene. It is said to appear like work from Adolphe Monticelli who was inspired by Dutchman van Gogh. The painting is considered to have been made at a turning point in van Gogh's style.Canadian police officers who thought they were saving Van Halen singer  David Lee Roth's life in May have now learned that they were assisting an impostor.On May 23, Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) officers near Brantford, Ontario stopped a vehicle that was travelling abnormally. They discovered a driver who identified himself as "David Lee Roth" who was  having medical trouble. The driver was taken to Brantford General Hospital for treatment of anaphylaxis, reportedly caused by a peanut allergy.Following his treatment and release from hospital, the man accompanied two nurses to a local bar, Liquid Lounge, where he sung the Van Halen song "Ice Cream Man" with a local band.But it was since determined that Roth was performing with Van Halen in New York City on the evening that the incident occurred. A statement was issued through Roth's publicist denying that he was in Ontario and that the singer is not allergic to peanuts. The OPP officers at the time of the incident did not seek identification of the impostor due to concern over the man's medical condition, but are now aware of his real identity.Controversy erupted on September 6th, 2007 when a nude photo of High School Musical star Vanessa Hudgens appeared on the internet. Hudgen apologised and said she was "embarrassed over the situation" and that she regretted "taking those photos".Her publicist released a statement saying the photos were taken in private and it was "unfortunate" the pictures were leaked onto the internet. Hudgen's role in High School Musical 3 has not changed because of the photos.The British broadcaster and journalist Sir David Frost has died of a heart attack, aged 74.Best known for an interview with former President Richard Nixon following the Watergate scandal, Frost died on Saturday night aboard the Queen Elizabeth cruise ship, where he was due to give a speech. "His family are devastated, and ask for privacy at this difficult time," said a statement released from Frost's family.Frost got his start in the early 1960s presenting on satirical BBC show That Was The Week That Was. With a career spanning five decades, Frost would go on to interview an extensive list of the famous and powerful - including virtually every British Prime Minister and US President of his time, as well as royalty, celebrities and leaders including Mikhail Gorbachev and The Beatles. Highly versatile, Frost would prove confident at both serious political journalism as well as light entertainment and comedy, hosting sketch show The Frost Report in the mid-60s. Frost famously interviewed former US President Richard Nixon in 1977, during which Nixon apologized for the Watergate scandal—where Nixon had bugged the offices of political opponents. The face-off would be turned into multi-Oscar nominated film Frost/Nixon in 2008, with Frost played by Michael Sheen.Frost wrote 17 books, produced eight films and started the British television networks London Weekend Television and TV-am. He became Sir David after being knighted in 1993, and won numerous awards for his work throughout his time.Frost is survived by his wife Carina and their three sons.New York —Media giant Viacom has delayed the launch of its LGBT-themed LOGO channel by more than four months, according to reports. Originally scheduled to launch Feb. 17, the new channel's debut was delayed until a planned June 30 sign on.Part of Viacom's MTV Networks, LOGO has secured carriage on Time Warner cable in Manhattan, RCN and Atlantic Broadband. It is in final negotiations with Comcast, the nation's largest cable company, which serves the San Francisco Bay Area.The channel's management said it will take the extra time to beef up its programming slate and sign on more carriers. LOGO already has secured the rights to such programming as Golden Globe and Emmy-winning Angels in America and films such as Far From Heaven, Philadelphia and The Birdcage. Original programming includes plans for a string of reality-based series and documentaries with titles such as The Relationship Show, My Fabulous Gay Wedding, and Cruise, which take place about a gay-themed ocean cruise ship.The auction house Bonhams and Goodman have sold the last privately owned Victoria Cross(VC) awarded at the World War I Gallipoli campaign in Sydney tonight. The medal was awarded to New Zealand-born Australian soldier Captain Alfred Shout.  The sale price of $A 1 million surpassed the previous record of $A575,000 set in 2004 for the VC medal awarded to Sergeant Norman Jackson of the RAF 1944.The Victoria Cross is the highest recognition for valour "in the face of the enemy" that can be awarded to members of the British and Commonwealth armed forces and civilians under military command. It is also the highest award in the British Honours system.The buyer is an Australian businessman, auctioneer Mr Tim Goodman said "I can confirm the buyer is a prominent Australian businessman who is going to work with the RSL to make sure the medals go on display at the Australian War Memorial in Canberra.", after commissions and other charges the successful buyer will pay $A1,214,500.The addition of this medal will take the display of Victoria Crosses at the Australian War Memorial to 60.  The display will include all nine Victoria Crosses awarded to Australian servicemen at Gallipoli.Today the 60th anniversary of Victory Day was commemorated in Russia, and other successor states of the Soviet Union.The parade on Red Square started at 7:00 UTC. The leaders of more than 50 countries and heads of several international organisations attended the parade. George W. Bush watched the parade with Russian President Vladimir Putin.Others attending included:Hu Jintao - General Secretary of the Communist Party of ChinaKofi Annan - Secretary General of the United NationsJunichiro Koizumi - Prime Minister of JapanGerhard Schröder - Chancellor of GermanyJacques Chirac - President of the French RepublicMore than 4,000 World War II veterans and 7,000 military personnel were involved in the parade. The culmination was the flight of 12 planes (made up of SU-25s and MIG-29s), which emitted white, blue and red smoke to paint a Russian flag in the air.Average Moscow citizens were not allowed to the parade. The exits from several metropolitan stations were closed. Mass celebrations are planned to be held at Poklonnaya Gora, Moscow's primary WW2 memorial.Several new monuments were opened today, such as the 8-meter statue of Charles de Gaulle by Zurab Tsereteli and the monument to soldiers from Allied countries.In the evening there was a large fireworks display.The 60th anniversary of Victory in Europe (VE) Day was commemorated across Europe yesterday.The National Institute on the Media and the Family (NIMF), a media watchdog group based in Minneapolis, Minnesota issued a "nationwide parental alert" today. This came after finding out about hidden sex scenes in the popular video game Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas.The game also has been criticised as being too violent. This is not limited to San Andreas: the entire series has come under fire for its content, mostly the last two games, Grand Theft Auto 3 and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City.The sex scenes come in the form of a "mini-game" in which the player controls the male with the task of maximising his cohort's "excitment." The hidden game in GTA: San Andreas is not advertised or easy to find but can be unlocked by modifying the game using a program which has been widely available on the Internet for weeks. But for NIMF and the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB), the organization which rates video games and rated GTA: San Andreas 'M' for Mature, the hidden mini-game came as a surprise. As such, the ESRB has launched an investigation into the matter.To unlock the hidden sex mini-game on the Playstation 2 requires an Action Replay or Gameshark.  These devices cannot transfer new content to a console but can enable content already contained on the game disc.  The presence of this minigame on an unmodified retail version implies that it was created by the game's creators rather than hackers or the mod community.Rockstar Games, the game's publisher, refused to comment on whether the sex scenes were inserted by their programmers. Rockstar Games has also said, "We thoroughly support the work of the ESRB, and believe that it has an exemplary record of rating games and promoting understanding of video game content. We also feel confident that the investigation will uphold the original rating of the game, as the work of the mod community is beyond the scope of either publishers or the ESRB."In the game the character may have girlfriends, and at a certain point in his stats he can entertain his girlfriend with some "coffee". However, the "hot coffee" modification unlocks the secret sex scenes after the two share a drink.The sex scene portrays oral sex and coitus, but genitals are not shown. A video of the secret sex scene can be found here[1] (warning: contains mature content).It's interesting to note that modifying a video game's source code is a violation of the software licensing agreement.  Rockstar announced that it may pursue legal proceedings against Action Replay, whose device enables the hacking of the console version of San Andreas. When it comes right down to it, its much easier (and quicker) to find free adult content on the internet, or download pornographic movies from a P2P network, than it is to crack a video game.Rockstar Games may be subject to a Mandatory Recall.The mayor of Vienna has criticised the cancellation of the original Michael Jackson tribute concert that was due to take place on September 26 in Vienna, Austria.Michael Häupl, the mayor of Vienna, has said: "[The show would have been] very interesting... had it been properly prepared and organised but it was not." The tribute concert, which was due to take place in Austria on September 26, was organised mainly by Jermaine Jackson, Michael Jackson's brother.Funding for the original concert had been cancelled on September 11 due to the fact that many top stars such as Natalie Cole, Mary J. Blige and Chris Brown couldn't make the concert because, as Jermaine Jackson said, "Numerous stars were just not able to change their schedules".A replacement concert is now due to take place in London, England at some point in June 2010.Bart Cummings wins his 12th Melbourne Cup with Viewed ridden by Blake Shin.  Bauer, ridden by C W Brown, was second after the photo finish, with C’est La Guerre ridden by B Prebble coming third. Honolulu was the last placed horse.Cummings began training in 1953. His first Cup win was with Light Fingers in 1965. This win is his 250th group one win.   Today's 148th Melbourne Cup field of 24 was reduced after the scratchings of Yellowstone and Zarita, withdrawn by its trainer Pat Hyland on Monday due to a respiratory infection. The English horse Yellowstone was scratched later in the day by a veterinarian after failing to recover from a hip injury sustained last week.The race began with Irish trainer Aidan O'Brien's 3 horses Septimus (an early race favourite and $7 chance), Honolulu, and Alessandro Volta setting a cracking pace for a large part of the race before fading badly at the turn into the straight to occupy 3 of the last 5 places. From there Viewed stormed clear before Bauer pulled it back in the last 50 yards to go down by a nose, in one of the closest finishes to a Melbourne Cup in the race's history.The race was watch by an estimated 105,000 at Flemington Racecourse with many more across the country stopping to watch the race on television.Viktor Schreckengost, the father of industrial design and creator of the Jazz Bowl, an iconic piece of Jazz Age art designed for Eleanor Roosevelt during his association with Cowan Pottery died yesterday. He was 101.Schreckengost was born on June 26, 1906 in Sebring, Ohio, United States.Schreckengost's peers included the far more famous designers Raymond Loewy and Norman Bel Geddes. In 2000, the Cleveland Museum of Art curated the first ever retrospective of Schreckengost's work. Stunning in scope, the exhibition included sculpture, pottery, dinnerware, drawings, and paintings.Police warn more bodies may remain to be found after yesterday's crash of a vintage jet killed at least seven people. The Hawker Hunter crashed into a busy road during the Shoreham Airshow in England.The plane failed to pull out of a large loop at around 1:20p.m. It hit the nearby A27 road, erupting into a fireball and leaving cars burned out and heavily damaged. The scene in West Sussex is near the town of Shoreham.Pilot Andy Hill is presently alive but critically injured in hospital. He has previously flown with British Airways and the Royal Air Force. Two of the dead are Worthing United FC football players, Matthew Grimstone and Jacob Schilt, who were on their way to a match. Also killed was Matt Jones, 24, who worked as a personal trainer. He came from Littlehampton and was giving a friend a lift. A vintage Daimler wedding limousine on its way to collect a bride was also caught up in the crash, but its owner Chariot Chauffeurs say they are unclear on if the driver was a fatality.Sussex Police and the Air Accidents Investigation Branch are investigating. Police Superintendent Jane Derrick said last night, "At this time we are continuing to search[...] It is possible that tonight and tomorrow we are going to find more bodies at the scene." She said it is believed all casualties except the pilot were road users. At least fourteen were injured. Assistant Chief Constable Steve Barry today said eleven people are "highly likely to have died in this tragedy", based upon "our initial work at the site" and "inquiries following calls to the emergency services from worried families and friends". He said officers currently remain at the "incredibly large" scene. There are plans to remove plane wreckage using a crane tomorrow.The pilot, Hill, was experienced, with years of display flying under his belt and a military career that included flying Harrier jump-jets. David Wildridge, another pilot who took part yesterday, said Hill is "well-known and well-loved", "very professional", and that his Harrier experience made him "the best of the best."The 1950s jet was decommissioned from military service in 1996 and sold at auction. In 2012 English entrepreneur Graham Peacock bought it for around £65,000. It is a regular at airshows. Tina Tilley, head of the local chamber of commerce, was at the show and said "From where we were we could see the jet came down very low and looked like it was going to scoop up — but it didn't. There were flames and we knew it was right on the A27. Everyone was horrified and there were people crying." Motorist Dom Lawson, whose car was narrowly missed, said "It was like something out of Die Hard". The road closure left thousands trapped at the scene as they could not remove their cars.In a statement, Prime Minister David Cameron sent "his heartfelt condolences to the families of the people who were so tragically killed [...] [his] thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the victims." The airshow is cancelled today.It is one of three deadly European airshow crashes in four days. On Thursday two planes carrying parachutists collided and crashed in West Slovakia. At least seven were killed. They had been practising for an airshow due to be held this weekend. Today two small planes collided during an airshow in Dittingen, Switzerland. One of the pilots escaped but the other was killed.Earlier this year a pilot was killed when his plane crashed during an aerial display at CarFest in England. In 2007 a Shoreham Airshow display recreating the Battle of Britain ended with a pilot dead following a crash.San Pedro Sula, Honduras —The Virgin of Suyapa, a 6cm high statue that is the patron saint of Honduras, was brought to the local suburb of Eben Ezer in Chamelecón, San Pedro Sula, after the residents of this area experienced the massacre of 27 people returning home by bus on 23rd December 2004. A further 29 were left injured. Many thousands of people from all over Central America come to Suyapa, a suburb of the capital Tegucigalpa, to celebrate her name day in early February, and she made this visit yesterday, Sunday January 30th, as a part of this year's celebrations. Her presence was heavily guarded by a contingent of armed military troops, as this statue has already been stolen more than once, though always recovered later. A minute's silence was held at the spot where the massacre took place. The nationally well known bishop's assistant Rómulo Emiliani led the ceremonies.British expatriate science fiction author, futurist, and visionary Arthur C. Clarke died on Wednesday in a hospital in his adopted hometown of Colombo, Sri Lanka. He was 90 years old."Sir Arthur passed away a short while ago at the Apollo Hospital. He had been in hospital for the past four days. He had been in and out of the hospital in recent weeks," said Clarke's assistant, Rohan de Silva. Reports say that after a long 50 year battle with post-polio syndrome, Clarke died at 1:30 a.m. (local time) on Wednesday from breathing complications.Famous for writing over 100 science fiction and science publications, including 2001: A Space Odyssey, he is also credited as the one who presented the concept of the geostationary communication satellite."Sometimes I am asked how I would like to be remembered. I have had a diverse career as a writer, underwater explorer and space promoter. Of all these I would like to be remembered as a writer," said Clarke not long before he died.Vivien Goldman recalls with a laugh the day in 1984 when she saw her death, but the laugh fades as she becomes lost in the memory.  She was in Nigeria staying in Fela Kuti's home; she had just arrived hours before and found people sleeping everywhere like house cats when Muhammadu Buhari's army showed up to haul everyone to jail.   Kuti was an opponent of the government who was in jail, and they came to arrest his coterie of supporters.  They grabbed Goldman and were about to throw her in a truck until Pascal Imbert, Kuti's manager, yelled out, "Leave her alone.  She just arrived from Paris!  She's my wife!  She knows nothing!  "Goldman stops for a moment and then smiles plainly. "They thought I was just some stupid woman.... That time sexism worked in my favor."Vivien Goldman has become a living, teaching testimony of the golden era of punk and reggae.  She is an adjunct professor at New York University who has taught courses on the music scene she was thrust in the middle of as a young public relations representative for Island Records.  She writes a column for the BBC called "Ask the Punk Professor" where she extols the wisdom she gained as a confidant of Bob Marley; as the person who first put Flava Flav in video; as Chrissie Hynde's former roommate; as the woman who worked with the The Clash, Sex Pistols, The Slits and The Raincoats.  As Wikinews reporter David Shankbone found out, Goldman is one of those individuals that when you sit in her presence you realize she simply can not tell you everything she knows or has seen, either to protect the living or to respect the dead.  DS:  The first biography of Bob Marley, Soul Rebel, Natural Mystic, was written by you based upon your personal experiences with him, and you have recently written a book about Marley called The Book of Exodus.  How difficult is it to continue to mine his life?  Is it difficult to come up with new angles?VG:  The original biography was written in a weekend and it was based upon my extensive interviews with him, whereas the Exodus book took two and a half years.  I must have been a year past deadline, because it kept on growing.  Even I had to acknowledge it was a more mature work.  After I wrote the first one, all these other people came out with books.  I read them, and they were all good in their different ways, but there was a story that had not been told but that I had lived so intensely, a deep story that had shaped my whole life.  It demanded I write a book about it.  Nobody else has the experience, and I still have that oompf.DS:  You were there with Marley through that time when he really caught on; was it obvious to you then that there was something amazing and unique happening?VG:  It was really something, and it was huge, but I didn't examine it then.  I believed in Bob with every fiber of my being, but it was hard to realize how everybody in the world would get it in the end, and just how towering a figure and enduring he would prove to be.  He deserves everything and more; the role that he occupies is so central.  It would have been hard to envisage how huge he became, though.DS:  Warhol’s Factory photographer, Billy Name, once told me he knew that what was going on was amazing, but he never thought Warhol would become the entire fabric of the art world as he is now.VG:  Especially in New York.  Warhol was so associated with the punk scene.DS:  But Marley has become a fabric of sorts...VG:  Oh, he’s beyond the fabric of reggae, he’s the fabric of the rebel spirit.  Now everybody just puts on a little red, green and gold and they feel it identifies them as being there in the struggle.  Even if it is someone flying to the Hamptons for the weekend, they bring out Marley to expresses the rebel aspect they don’t want to completely lose.DS:  How do you define punk?VG:  There are two things.  First, the aesthetic: harder, faster, louder.  But the second thing is what interested me more, which was the rebel spirit and attitude.  That free spirit of punk; that implicit sense of wanting to change a system that is always unfair wherever you are, except for maybe in the Netherlands.  But it's become so commodifiedDS:  What is the commodified version of punk selling?VG:  Edgy and dangerous.  It is amazing: you open the New York Times and the free bits fall out and you get Urban Outfitters or Old Navy with lines of punk kiddie clothes.  K-mart, even.  I was trying to see what was so deeply punk about those clothes.  They were maybe more colorful or something, but they weren’t punk.  It's like the Swarovski crystal take on punk, I mean, please!DS:  That aesthetic is everywhere, as though if one spikes his hair he is punk.VG:  Well, the punk is in the heart, to paraphrase Deee-Lite.  I was writing about Good Charlotte and The Police.  They adopted the trappings of punk.  They aren’t bad groups, but the punk aspect is more manifested by somebody like Manu Chao.  He’s one of the punkiest artists out there I can think of.  It’s an inclusionary spirit that is punk.DS:  Your philosophy is that punk is not just musical, but also an aesthetic.  That it can imbibe anything; that it stands for change and for changing a system.  Let me give you a few names, and you to tell me how you think they are or are not punk.  Britney Spears.VG:  Oh, no she’s not punk.  Punk is not just about wearing smeary black eyeliner, but some sense of engagement.  That’s it in a nutshell.  She doesn’t have that sense of engagement.  She is society.DS:  Dick Cheney.VG:  He is the essence of Babylonian, old structure capitalism, which is about greed and how much one can take for himself.  I could see capitalism that is mutually beneficial, such as ‘I want a bigger customer base,’ but they don't.  Take a place I know well like Jamaica. I don’t know if you have seen that documentary Life and Debt, about how the INF squeezed everything out of Jamaica, but that’s a typical thing that happens.  Instead of building these people up and paying them a living wage for their work, where we could sell more to them, we just want to suck everything out of the place.  Suck the sugar, suck the labor.  And that is not very punk. It’s the opposite of punk.  That’s what Dick Cheney represents to me.  He tries to bring about change, but change that just fattens his pocket.  It's not thinking of the community, and that's what punk is about.DS:  Kanye West.VG: He seems to be a positive force.  In that sense, I would file him slightly under punk.DS:  Osama bin Laden.VG:  He thinks he is a punk, but he's too destructive.  If I was sitting in the madrassa in the desert chanting the Koran seven days a week, I'd think, yeah, he's a punk.  But I'm not, so I don't.DS:  Is the definition of punk relative, then?  He's a Madrasah punk but not a Manhattan punk?VG:  Having said that, they would loathe punks, so I think we can safely say, not a punk.DS:  Pete Doherty.VG:  Oh yeah, I think he's a punk.  He's a punk and he engages with the system in terms of how a powerful a presence he's become.  He is the Keith Richards of his day.DS:  If punk is about change, then why the maudlin sentimentality over the closing of CBGB's, which at times turned into demonizing a homeless shelter?VG:  Yeah, and they had not paid their rent, had they?  I sided with the homeless shelter in a way, except I thought the whole thing was ridiculous because somebody should have stepped in and bought it and paid it and fixed it up, in the sense there is no shrine.  They don' think about the tourism, do they?  I expect that of America now.  Los Angeles just destroyed the Brown Derby, and the modernist architecture. That's the thing about America. There seems to be very little regard for legacy.  I think they should have kept CBGBs, but I think that more cynically.  My students had a huge debate about it.DS:  I felt it was what it was at a certain moment, but it wasn't that anymore.  They were charging eight dollars for a beer.  That's not very punk, and that wasn't attracting the punk crowds.  It was like people who move to the Bowery because they think it's so edgy but it's really a  boulevard of glittering condos. VG:  Nostalgie pour la boue: nostalgia for the mud.  Not all of them, though.  Patti Smith.  Anyway, the spirit had moved on to Williamsburg.DS:  Where do you think New York's culture is going?  There are so few places on Earth with such a large concentration of creatives who meet and influence each other, but the city is becoming less affordable and cleansed of any grit.  Is there a place for punk in the Manhattan of the future?VG:  They are flushing out the artists.  Manhattan is now a ghetto for the very rich.  When punk started it was in weird places, places you broke into and that had never been used for shows.  It was never in regular venues, but now every nook and cranny is a regular venue and it doesn't leave much space for the old punk spirit.  ABC No Rio, I think they manage to work it in the system.  And there are places like The Stone, John Zorn's place, which has avant-garde free form jazz.  He subsidizes that place, so it remains a little haven.  There are a few little pockets, but it has a lot do with the rent.  Realistically, there's loads of stuff happening in places like Brooklyn, more than there seems to be in Manhattan.  When I jammed with The Slits, that happened at some after-hours thing in Brooklyn in some warehouse.  I remember loads of things in funny places.  The first time I heard Public Enemy I was on the rooftop of a building.DS:  You're friends with Flava Flav, right?VG: Yes, although I haven't seen him in a very long time.  I remember how I met him.  I was doing this video for I Ain't No Joke with Erik B and Rakim, and they weren't very vibey in terms of the stagecraft, as it were.  The projection.  Not to diss anybody, but I needed someone to bring a bit more life into it; it was very low-budget, a vérité kind of shoot. We were in a playground in the projects and there were all these blokes hanging around, and there was one who was super-sprightly, like a live wire.  I didn't know it was Flava Flav and I shouted out, Hey, you, will you come over and be groovy for us? and he did and a lot of the action in the video is Flava Flav spinning around, doing a Dervish in the middle of the playground.DS:  At the time he wasn't known?VG:  Well, it turned out he was in a group called Public Enemy.  The first time I heard them was at a rooftop party, and it's one of my great New York memories.  It was a warehouse building that's still there behind Houston and Bowery and I remember it was amazing because you never heard music like that before.  It was blaring.  It was so hot and we were in the middle of the city with graffiti on the walls, people smoking spliffs.  It was very free.  You don't see that anymore.  Everything is more heavily policed.DS:  Do you think apathy is a problem today?VG:  There's less intelligent, critical content in general, and celebrity magazines pay the most and sell the most.  It's the Lowest Common Denominator.  Britney Spears is an unbelievable example. She's so young with no good guidance around her, and she is fodder for them to sell more magazines.  There's a gladiator aspect of it: the worse off she is, the better for that industry.  But I'm still looking for the people who have conscience.  Michael Franti, he's one of the only ones I look to now. He had that band Spearhead.  I'm looking around for conscious artists.DS:  What about G. G. Allin?  He used to defecate on the stage to make a point.VG: That's quite extreme, and very unhygienic.  I wouldn't need to see that.  I don't think that's necessarily punk, it's just scatological.  Some people might think it's punk, but I personally wouldn't dig it.  It's outrageous, but not in the way I find interesting.DS:  Well, he's dead.  Do you think people are afraid to speak out today?VG:  I guess in Vietnam you did, but now the culture isn't nearly as organized.DS:  Is violence for the cause of social change punk?VG:  Violence will occur in social change.  Violence has always been associated with punk, although punk wants peace in a way.  When you look at all the bands in punk, like No Future and Blank Generation, it has implicit an aspiration to a place where you don't have to be violent.  Often it happens. The punk era was violent.  Very, very violent.  So many people were beaten up during those days.  I'm very much a peacenik, but violence often happens, one observes, on the road to social change.DS:  Sandra Bernhard once did an homage to what she called the Big-Tittied Bitches of Rock n' Roll:  Heart, Joan Jett, Stevie Nicks.  She mourned that there were no big-tittied bitches left.  Who are the big-tittied bitches of Rock n' Roll today?VG:  M.I.A.  Tanya Stephens.  Joan Jett, still.  The Slits, who still suffer from the system and they are still brilliant.  Male bands of that statute would have more deals.  Big-tittied in terms of cojones, as opposed to cleavage as such.DS:  Do you have moments of extreme self-doubt where you wonder if anything you do matters to anyone?VG:  I have a lot of moments of extreme self-doubt, but you have to be humble and listen to what people say.  Although I was never top of the New York Times book chart, I know people have liked my stuff, and that keeps me going.  The classes have been amazing.  I had done a lot of television and media, but it was the first time I had done something one-on-one.  It was the old cliche that a person learns as much as they teach.  Loads of my old students keep in touch with me; one wrote to me to tell me he is free-lancing for XXL and some other rap magazines, and how the classes really have been useful and he always refers to them.  Even just one person is gratifying and encourages me to continue my work.DS:  You have worked for two corporations that are seen by many as the least punk in their respective communities, the BBC and NYU.  How does one remain punk in such environments?VG:  I'm a freelancer.  I go in, do my thing, and if they don't like it then I don't do it anymore.  I stay true to myself, and if it doesn't work out then I guess 'fuck off' on both sides.  I haven't had to compromise myself; nobody has asked me to.  BBC America is a different animal than the BBC.  As long as I can say what I want to say; I think people come to me because they know what they are getting.DS:  Have you ever been in a situation where you feared for your life, where you thought, this may be the way I go?VG:  There was a lot of violence in the punk times and I got beaten up in street brawls.  I particularly remember once in Nigeria...  I was there to make a documentary for Channel 4 about Fela Kuti.  He was in jail at that time and he wanted to draw attention to his plight to showcase what was going on in Nigeria.  It was hard to get through customs because my guides weren't there to meet me.  I found them hiding in the carpark because the police were after them.We went to Fela's house where I was going to stay; we went to the shrine and it was amazing.  The whole house was covered in people sleeping.  I was woken up by this little girl very early in the morning, only about two hours later.  She was tapping me on the shoulder and when I looked around there was nobody there, whereas it had been covered in people.  She said, "Come! Come!  The army is here!"I went outside and there was the army arresting everyone.  People were lined up against the wall.  Pascal Imbert, a French guy who was managing Fela, was already on the truck and they were about to take him away.  There were all these really serious, heavey Nigerian soldiers with machine guns around.  Not friendly, more like stone-faced Belsen guards.  It was like that Bob Marley song Ambush in the Night:  there were four guns aiming at me.  They all turned their guns on me and said, "What should we do with her?"  From the truck Pascal shouts out, "Leave her alone!  She's my wife!  She's just arrived from Paris!  She doesn't know anything!"  The combination of the words "She's my wife, she doesn't' know anything" were enough.  Of course, I had neither arrived from Paris nor was his wife.  But they just left me alone; they thought I was just some stupid woman.    That time sexism worked in my favor. [Laughs]  She doesn't know anything!  They were about to take Pascal away and I rushed up to the head guy very bravely—Pascal always gives me props for this—and I said, "Where are you taking my husband?!"  They were actually taking him to a secret jail.DS:  What happened to him in the secret jail?VG:  There's a documentary about it.  He got very thin, he contracted dysentry and he got various diseases.  No food, or terrible food.  Luckily for him after some months there was an amnesty and he was amongst the prisoners who were released.  That was a very heavy moment.  I thought I would die, either right then or in a Nigerian jail.DS:  In Jamaica there was so much violence during the civil war.VG:  I've seen a lot of death.  Many of the people I knew in Jamaica are dead.  I think of them a lot; like my very, very close friend Massive Dread.  He did so much for the community.  At Christmas he'd hold a big party for the kids, and all the rival gangs would come.  He was trying to break up some of the coke runnings.  They started to have crack dens in Trenchtown and he worked against those.  He was opening a library called the Trenchtown Reading Center, in the middle of this broken down ghetto, where kids could sit down to do homework and read books in this nice courtyard.  It was really worthwhile.Realising how visual a medium tattooing is, tattoo artist Kat Von D of TV series LA Ink set a world record while raising funds to fight childhood blindness. In 24 hours, Von D tattooed 400 people with an "LA" logo, in her West Hollywood, California tattoo shop.The December event at High Voltage Tattoo drew 1000 people in line, although only 400 could get the image emblazoned on them, for a $20 donation. Most learned of the event through her MySpace profile. In all, the funds raised will help 32,000 children's eyesight, through Vitamin Angels.Vitamin Angels is the only organization in the world solely dedicated to eradicating vitamin A definciency among children, with the goal of warding off youth blindness by 2020. The year 2020 is chosen because perfect vision is described as "20/20".First in line at the event was Jose Flores, who had camped out in front of the store since 7:15 the previous evening. Doors didn't open until 10 am, and Flores didn't get the tattoo until Von D was done with her friends and family, including internet celebrity Jeffree Star.A Guinness World Records official was scheduled to attend, but was caught in a snow storm.Katherine Von Drachenberg told the Los Angeles Times that, as a teenager, she "be at the mall and parents would grab their kids and be like, 'Honey!' It was like that scene in Pretty Woman, where the women on Rodeo Drive think Julia Roberts is going to shoplift. Now people just come up to me more out of curiosity -- everyone from grandmas to soccer moms."The record setting event was filmed for LA Ink, a series that airs Tuesday nights on TLC in the United States. The series is a spin-off of Miami Ink, a series featuring Von D's previous place of employ, before she set off on her own.The series' second season started last night, however that particular episode will air March 4.File:Vyacheslav Tikhonov 1963 photo.jpgFamous Soviet and Russian actor Vyacheslav Tikhonov died Friday aged 81.Born in 1928, he made his film debut in 1948. The first fame came in 1968, when he featured in Sergei Bondarchuk's Oscar-winning War and Peace as Andrei Bolkonsky and in We'll Live Till Monday in the leading role of a history school teacher.He is best known for his role of the Soviet spy Standartenführer Stirlitz in the famous 1973 television series Seventeen Moments of Spring, Soviet classics about World War II. Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Cabinet Sergei Ivanov, and the former head of the Foreign Intelligence Service, remarked that, "this role personified an ideal Soviet spy — smart, refined, intelligent".His later roles included the portrayal of a KGB General in the 1984 television series TASS Is Authorized to Declare..., also written by Moments author Yulian Semyonov, and the role in the award-winning 1994 film Burnt by the Sun.Russian state broadcasting company VGTRK recently presented a version of the 17 Moments with restored color. It took approximately US$3,000 to colorize each minute of the film, a $2,520,000 total cost. The television series Isayev was also released recently by Central Partnership, about the deeds of young Stirlitz, based on the novels by Semyonov. Isayev was played by Daniil Strahov.He was operated on in the Central Clinical Hospital of Moscow last Saturday, but his health remained in a poor condition and he died after a second infarction.Union Of Cinematographists of Russia specifically asked Yuriy Luzhkov, the Moscow mayor, to permit the burial of the People's Artist at Novodevichiye cemetery. The date and place of the funeral will not be decided until Monday.He is survived by second wife Tamara, daughter Anna Tikhonova (also in actoring) and four grandsons. His first wife, Nonna Mordyukova, died last year.Singer W. Axl Rose, of the band Guns 'N Roses, was arrested early Tuesday morning for assaulting and biting a security guard on the leg outside the Stockholm, Sweden hotel where he was staying.Rose, who performed in Stockholm on Monday, was held by the Swedish police on the suspicion of threatening and attacking the guard, as well as causing damage to the hotel. According to a police spokeswoman, Rose was intoxicated and threatening to the arresting police officers, necessitating the use of handcuffs. He was later jailed due to the potential flight risk he posed.At approximately 7 p.m. CEST (1700 UTC), Rose was released, having admitted his guilt in the crimes. The likely punishment will be a fine, most likely to the sum of 40 thousand Swedish crowns, as well as an additional 10-thousand-crown restitution for the bitten security guard. The incident followed Rose's concert at the Globe Arena in Stockholm.American heavy metal/shock rock band W.A.S.P. have announced a world tour to mark the 15th anniversary of the release of concept album 'The Crimson Idol'.The tour will start at the end of October and carry through to early 2008. So far, 49 dates have been announced, although W.A.S.P. have not announced the venues for all of them, and more dates are to be announced later.Said the band in a statement: "For the first time ever, 'The Crimson Idol' [album] will be performed in its entirety live. Never before has this great work been attempted to be performed this way. The live performance will feature all of the music from the original album but in addition, never-seen video footage will be shown throughout the show from beginning to end. This filmed footage was shot in 1992 and was originally designed to be a full-length movie. "To commemorate the 15-year anniversary of this milestone album, it will be presented in its original story form. This promises to be a powerful and moving live experience. Being done in selective dates worldwide in 2007-2008."The following dates have been announced so far:October - Greece: Thessaloníki IdrogiosOctober 27 - Greece: Athens Gagarin 205October 28 - [to be announced]October 29 - Scotland: Glasgow GarageOctober 30 - United Kingdom: Liverpool Cavern ClubOctober 31 - UK: Dudley Jb'sNovember 01 - UK: Manchester AcademyNovember 02 - UK: London AstoriaNovember 03 - UK: Nottingham Rock CityNovember 04 - UK: Leeds Rio'sNovember 05 - UK: Newcastle AcademyNovember 06 - [to be announced]November 07 - [to be announced]November 08 - Norway: [venue to be announced]November 09 - Norway: Trondheim SamfundetNovember 10 - Norway: Jevnaker Venue Tba.November 11 - Norway: Bergen UsfNovember 12 - Norway: [venue to be announced]November 13 - Norway: Oslo RockefellerNovember 14 - Norway: Stavanger FolkenNovember 15 - [to be announced]November 16 - Sweden: Ostersund EventhusetNovember 17 - Sweden: Karlstadt NöjesfabrikenNovember 18 - Sweden: Gothenburg TrädgarnNovember 24 - Latvia: Riga Sapnu FabrikaNovember 25 - Estonia: Tallinn Rock CaféNovember 30 - Germany: Chemnitz Hellraiser E.V.December 01 - Czech Republic: Zlin Hala NovestaDecember 02 - Hungary: Budapest WigwamDecember 03 - [to be announced]December 04 - [to be announced]December 05 - Spain: [venue to be announced]December 06 - Spain: [venue to be announced]December 07 - Spain: [venue to be announced]December 08 - Spain: [venue to be announced]December 09 - Spain: [venue to be announced]December 10 - Spain: [venue to be announced]December 11 - [to be announced]December 12 - Italy: Treviso New AgeDecember 13 - Italy: Milan RainbowDecember 14 - Germany: Darmstadt CentralstationDecember 15 - Germany: Düsseldorf PhilipshalleDecember 16 - Germany: Augsburg RockfabrikDecember 17 - Germany: Trier EuropahalleDecember 18 - Germany: Berlin Tba.December 19 - Germany: Hamburg MarkthalleDecember 20 - Germany: Bremen AladinDecember 21 - Germany: Speyer Halle 101December 22 - Switzerland: Pratteln Z7The Welsh Assembly Government has announced that smoking will be banned in enclosed public places on April 2, 2007. The ban will affect pubs, clubs, bars and restaurants and all other enclosed public spaces in Wales, although smoking in beer gardens etc will be at the discretion of the landlord. The ban will come into effect one month before the Welsh general election, on the same day as a similar ban in Northern Ireland and before a ban in England. Scotland already has a similar smoking ban in place. People lighting up after April 2, 2007 will face on the spot fines. New bilingual no smoking signs will need to be prominently displayed.The sets and props of popular claymation characters  Wallace and Gromit have been destroyed in a warehouse blaze this morning in Bristol, UK.The disaster comes only days after the US release of Nick Park's latest film featuring the characters, The Curse Of The Were-Rabbit, which topped the box office chart and took US$16.1 million (GB£9.1 million) over the weekend.  The film is scheduled for UK release this Friday.Sets and models from the new film escaped as they had not yet been added to the Aardman Animation collection hosted in Bristol.  Among the damage caused by the blaze, the character Morph was lost; for many UK children the appearance of this character in Tony Hart's BBC art programmes was their first introduction to stop motion animation.The warehouse, located near Bristol's central railway station, dated from the Victorian era and was formerly part of Ismbard Kingdom Brunel's Great Western Railway.  Ten fire crews attended the blaze, in which flames shot 100ft into the air, from 0600 BST into the afternoon, but were unable to prevent the collapse of the roof, interior walls and all three floors of the building.An investigation will begin once the building has been made safe.Swindon, England, has an unusual new twin town: Walt Disney World in Florida. The Wiltshire town beat 24 others in a competition to become the first ever to be twinned with the famous resort.Rebecca Warren, a local building society worker, created a poem and video praising Swindon which won over the judges. Among other features she highlighted the town's well-known Magic Roundabout, a complicated junction composed of five interlinked mini-roundabouts, comparing it to Disney World's teacup rides.A sign marking the twinning is planned for the roundabout. Ms. Warren will travel to Florida with her eleven-year-old nephew and five-year-old niece to unveil a similar sign at the resort. A celebration will be held in Swindon in January, and it will also be the focus of an exhibit at Walt Disney World's Epcot park."Britain clearly has a love for Walt Disney World and long-standing affinity with the parks and their magic, which is probably why the number and quality of entries received was so high," said Disney's Hugh Wood. Other towns shortlisted in the competition included Aberdeen, Blackpool, Milton Keynes, and Cambridge.Inventor Walter Frederick Morrison has died of the age of 90. He was famous for being the inventor of the flying disc, more commonly identified as the frisbee. Kay McIff, a Utah House Representative and Morrison's son announced that he had died in the city of Monroe in Utah, United States. Morrison, whose son Walt said that "old age caught up" with him, had been suffering from cancer.In the year 1957, he sold the rights to the product, which he called the "Pluto Platter", to California company Wham-O, who sold the product with this name. Then, the company noticed that consumers were colloquially calling the flying disc a "Frisbie", which is the name of a well known pie. Wham-O changed the name of the product to Frisbee to prevent copyright infringement. Over 200 million frisbees have now been sold around the world.On the official Wham-O website, a statement was released which said: "As Frisbee discs keep flying though the air, bringing smiles to faces, Fred's spirit lives on. Smooth flights, Fred." The company continued to pay tribute to Fred, as he was called. "He was a nice guy. He helped a lot of people. He was an entrepreneur. He was always looking for something to do," Wham-O commented.Kay McIff, a lawyer who represented Morrison in a court case involving royalties, said about the Frisbee: "That simple little toy has permeated every continent in every country, as many homes have Frisbees as any other device ever invented. How would you get through your youth without learning to throw a Frisbee?"Wanakafest has attempted to break the world record for the longest bra chain. They fell short by 107,297 bras, but raised more than NZ$10,000 for the Breast Cancer Research Trust charity in the attempt to beat the record currently held by Cyprus. The record is 114,782 bras which was made on April 30 this year.The bra chain, however, did manage to create a distance of 5 kilometers from 7,485 bras collected from all over the world over a period of six weeks. The bras included such places as United States, United Kingdom, Spain, Germany, Australia and from numerous places in New Zealand. 1,000 bras collected in North Hampton, England, courtesy of the BBC, did not count for the final tally. Three sacks full of bras, delivered complete with spiders, cob webs and cockroaches, from the world-famous Cardrona bra fence in Otago which farmer John Lee had to dismantle after council pressure earlier this year.Wanakafest managed to collect $10,000 for charity by donations sent in with people's bras, bras previously owned by celebrities were auctioned on New Zealand auction site, TradeMe, community fundraisers and an art auction.Kerry Quin, Wanakafest manager, said that she was "thrilled with how the community got behind the fundraiser. We have had so much support – not only from Wanaka locals, but also from throughout New Zealand. It's great to be able to give money to such a worthy cause."The Wanakafest organisers are unsure what will happen to the bras collected but Ms Quinn has said that a Napier charity asked for them and were not told what the purposes for them were.Quinn said: "Some were so tiny you wonder why they bother, and some so big you wonder how they walk!"Evansville, Indiana, United States — This past week marked the opening night of an Andy Warhol exhibit at the University of Southern Indiana. USI's art gallery, like 189 other educational galleries and museums around the country, is a recipient of a major Warhol donor program, and this program is cultivating new interest in Warhol's photographic legacy. Wikinews reporters attended the opening and spoke to donors, exhibit organizers and patrons.The USI art gallery celebrated the Thursday opening with its display of Warhol's Polaroids, gelatin silver prints and several colored screen prints. USI's exhibit, which is located in Evansville, Indiana, is to run from January 23 through March 9.The McCutchan Art Center/Pace Galleries at USI bases its exhibit around roughly 100 Polaroids selected from its collection. The Polaroids were all donated by the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program, according to Kristen Wilkins, assistant professor of photography and curator of the exhibit. The Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts made two donations to USI Art Collections, in 2007 and a second recently. Kathryn Waters, director of the gallery, expressed interest in further donations from the foundation in the future.Since 2007 the Andy Warhol Photographic Legacy Program has seeded university art galleries throughout the United States with over 28,000 Andy Warhol photographs and other artifacts. The program takes a decentralized approach to Warhol's photography collection and encourages university art galleries to regularly disseminate and educate audiences about Warhol's artistic vision, especially in the area of photography.Warner Music Group first quarter earnings rose sharply mostly from growth in digital music sales offsetting falling CD sales.  Warner Music sells digital music to several online services including Apple's iTunes at wholesale.  The company's first-quarter revenue from digital music sales doubled to US$69 million, accounting for 7% of overall revenue.  Madonna, Green Day, and James Blunt are signed to subsidiary labels of Warner.Warner Music has undergone restructuring after being sold in 2004 by former parent company Time Warner.  Cutting costs, exploiting current assets, and digital music has been the company's focus since going public in May.Hitler's wax model is to return to the Madame Tussauds museum in Berlin, Germany after getting its head ripped off by a 41-year old man who was arrested but subsequently released.At the grand opening of the museum, the man, currently only known as Frank L., pushed aside two officers who were protecting the exhibit. Yelling "No more war!", he proceeded to rip off the wax sculpture's head.The man was arrested but later released pending investigation. He told the German newspaper Bild am Sonntag he was angry about the exhibit. It has been reported that he had committed the act to win a bet started by his friends at a bar.The waxwork was criticized around Germany where, generally, Nazi memorabilia or symbols are banned. Critics have argued that it is inappropriate to display a person who started a world war, but the museum has noted that Hitler was an important figure in German history.The museum has announced its intentions to reinstate the €200,000 (£160,000) model after repairs, which could take weeks.We, a two-headed albino hermaphrodite rat snake that was featured on national television in the United States and attracted a sponsorship deal from a pharmaceutical company, died of natural causes on Tuesday at City Museum in St. Louis, Missouri. It was eight years old.A major attraction at the City Museum's World Aquarium, We will be preserved by a taxidermist and put back on display, according to an article yesterday in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch.Museum officials said We was incredibly long-lived for a two-headed snake. Often in two-headed animals, one mouth is not connected to the stomach, and because of complications, the animals will die within a month of being born. But We was fortunate, in that both its mouths were connected to its stomach."A snake like that in the wild would not survive," curator Chris Hancock was quoted as saying by the Post-Dispatch. "But the fact that it lived that long and we were able to afford it and educate people about it is awesome."Aquarium president Leonard Sonnenschein bought We in 1999 for US$15,000 from a snake breeder in Indiana."It's terrible news," Sonnenschein was quoted as saying by the Associated Press. "People come in every day and say: 'I'm here to see the two-headed snake'."About the size of a pencil when it was acquired, We was about five feet (1.5 meters) long and had a girth of around 1.5 inches (3.8 centimeters) when it died. At times, it appeared that We was straining to slither in two directions at once.In addition to having two heads, We was also a hermaphrodite. Last year, the museum tried unsuccessfully to breed the two-sexed snake with a two-headed rat snake from Wisconsin.A popular attraction at the museum, an estimated one million people came to see We while it was displayed. We once appeared on "Live with Regis and Kelly", a nationally syndicated television talk show.In 2004, We was stolen from the museum, but was recovered within hours by police after a call by a tipster, who had seen some teens with a two-headed snake.We even attracted corporate sponsorship, from a Florida-based biopharmaceutical company, Nutra Pharma, which develops treatments using modified cobra venom and cobratoxin. The Florida-based company signed a $15,000 deal in November 2006 to make We its brand icon.The museum had earlier in 2006 tried to auction We off in a fund-raising effort, hoping to attract bids of up to $100,000, but kept We when the highest bid was half that much.Within 24-hours of posting a web advertisement for an upcoming hackathon in Boston, Massachusetts, web startup Sqoot has lost four sponsors for the event, in what has been described as the "worst startup PR crisis in recent history." This caused them to postpone the event and apologize in response to thousands of tweets that opposed the advert and found its content sexist. On March 20, Sqoot, an API provider that delivers daily deals like Groupon and Gilt City, posted an online advert for their upcoming Boston API Jam. The advert promoted various perks for the event, including an in-house DJ, cocktails, food trucks and access to women: women specifically there to serve beer to attendees. As soon as the ad was posted to Eventbrite, many on Twitter expressed concern. Over 3,000 tweets later, the advert was deemed sexist by many and Twitter users both condemned Sqoot and contacted the sponsors of the event. The ad, which Alex Williams of SiliconANGLE described as "bizarre" and "misogynist," was quietly changed on Eventbrite by Sqoot, removing the mention of women as beer peddlers. In a matter of hours, four sponsors had pulled out from the Boston event: CloudMine, Apigee, Heroku, and MongoHQ. Shortly thereafter, Sqoot offered two apologies: a brief apology which was then followed by a more detailed apology stating that they desired to have a "good party" that was not a standard hackathon experience of pizza and keynote speakers. Sqoot stated that they "aimed to call attention to the male-dominated tech world through humor and intended to be inclusive, the gravity of our wording was just the opposite. Our words completely undermined our intentions and went further to harm the world we're trying to have a positive impact on." Other sponsors such as Constant Contact and Simple Relevance remained as sponsors. Shanley Kane, director of product management at Basho Technologies, supported the sponsor withdrawal and didn't just consider the advertisement sexist, but also homophobic by ostracizing gay men by promoting a seemingly "straight" agenda for the event. Kane also believed that Sqoot had the "false assumption that women would not attend the event at all," by promoting it with a male targeted spin. In an industry that is dominated by men, it can be assumed that more men would attend the hackathon than women, but, the advertisement ostracized women even more from attending. And this wasn't Sqoot's first foray into straight male targeted marketing. Blog posts like "Sqoot Makes You Yelp!" featuring the Yelp logo on a woman's backside and "Sqoot Goes Topless" featuring an image of a topless woman, are meant to promote the opening of Yelp's API and company transparency. Alex Williams believes that the Sqoot situation shows that sexism within the tech industry is broad and growing. "Women are marginalized and treated more as objects than as colleagues. The trend is a disturbing one and poses a serious threat to the health and diversity of the tech sector." Techli's Kathryn Hough chocked it up to immaturity, "Someone needs to tell young founders that frat house behavior is not acceptable in the business world. If Sqoot’s business collapses for a few sentences of sexist copy, I hope that other young founders get to see the wreckage before following them off the plank."Lukas Blakk, a release engineer and advisory board member for The Ada Initiative, a non-profit that tries to increase female participation in technology and open source, believes that having a code of conduct in place is a necessity for businesses, and for those businesses who don't "you’ve got a ticking time bomb in your organization’s future." Social media is giving businesses a new challenge when it comes to marketing. When it comes to the criticism fielded by the public towards businesses regarding sexist content, fellow Ada Initiative board member and database analyst Selena Deckelmann agrees that businesses need to step up to the challenge and respond appropriately. "...companies need to develop the skills necessary to respond with grace and understanding, even when under intense, negative scrutiny. Silencing, gas-lighting and ignoring the messenger tactics no longer work when a social network quickly spreads information, and occasionally, outrage."Is there a future for Sqoot? Mike Maney believes Sqoot can recover. Maney, head of influencer management for Alcatel-Lucent, acknowledges that Sqoot will have a long way to go to regain their credibility amongst the tech industry and the clientele they serve, "But, the work they'll have to do to undo the self-inflicted damage [...] is going to require a massive effort."On February 24th the Swedish Royal Court announced that the Crown Princess Victoria is to be married in 2010 to her boyfriend and former fitness trainer Daniel Westling. KP Victoria, 31, and Daniel, 35, have been in a relationship for seven years. As the wedding is to be held in the summer of 2010, it gives the court 18 months to prepare, contemplate the wedding dress of the Crown Princess, and complete the guest-list – which will include prominent guests from Europe and the world.According to the Swedish constitution, KP Victoria must ask for the King's approval for the marriage, who then has to call a cabinet council so that the government can give its approval. This was done on Tuesday morning, just before the court announced the engagement.After the wedding, Daniel will be given the title of Prince Daniel, Duke of Västergötland.  Their children will be next in line to the throne after Crown Princess Victoria.John Davies, highly regarded Welsh historian, has died at the age of 76. Davies worked closely with the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) during his career, often as a commentator on BBC Wales. As well as his work as a broadcaster he was also an author and a teacher at several universities across Wales.As an author he won the Glyndwr Award, an award that recognizes an outstanding contribution to the arts in Wales, and the Wales Book of the Year in 2010. He won the later award for his work Cymru: Y 100 Lle I'w Gweld Cyn Marw (Wales: 100 Places to See Before Dying). He also wrote A History of Wales, a book regarded, according to the BBC, by many as definitive on Welsh history.Tributes have been paid to Davies from many people including politicians and broadcasters. Welsh First Minister Carwyn Jones said "He'll be remembered as one of our great historians [...] of Wales' past which he gladly and passionately shared through his teaching, writing and broadcasting." Current BBC presenter Huw Edwards said "He had an extraordinary way of sharing his message in an engaging and lively way — in both languages — and that was incontrovertibly proved in his excellent and comprehensive work A History of Wales[...] He was a colourful character and great company." Another BBC tribute came from Rhodri Talfan Davies, the director of BBC Cymru Wales. He said "He didn't just bring the story of Wales and its people to life — he did so in technicolor."Davies, who lived in Grangetown, Cardiff, would go on to share his knowledge of Welsh history by teaching at both Swansea and Aberystwyth universities. He also held the position of warden at Aberystwyth, monitoring a student residence hall.He is survived by his wife Janet and four children.Welsh language television soap-opera Pobol y Cwm celebrated the 35th anniversary of broadcasting on Friday.Pobol y Cwm — Welsh for "People of the Valley" — made its first broadcast on BBC One Wales on October 16, 1974.  It was transferred onto the Welsh channel S4C in 1982 and has been broadcast there ever since, but is still filmed in the BBC Cymru studios.  It is one of the most watched programmes on the Welsh channel and the longest-running television soap-opera produced by the BBC. The episode marking the 35th anniversary of the day the show was debuted was broadcast on Friday.On the S4C website, the viewing figures state that the show is one of the most watched on the television channel, with viewing figures of around 70,000 on a regular basis. It is also the only soap-opera produced in the United Kingdom that is spoken in a language other than English and one of the two currently running regional soap-operas in the UK, the other being Scottish soap-opera River City. The television programme is the third-longest-running soap-opera overall, behind ITV soap-operas Emmerdale and Coronation Street.BBC Radio Cymru are to broadcast a programme at 0900 BST on Saturday to celebrate 35 years of programming for the show. Welsh actor Emyr Wyn said about the show: "When PYC started it was the only Welsh language drama on television."It’s still an integral part of Welsh-language TV. It’s the only Welsh soap and in the last 10 years it’s become even more accessible. It has lots of non-Welsh speaking viewers too. PYC is on Sky+ and I remember getting a shock when I went to a skiing chalet in France years ago and switched on the television and PYC came on!"Owen Edwards, the former director of BBC Wales and the first chief executive of Welsh language television station S4C, died on Monday at the age of 76.  Edwards had suffered from Parkinson's Disease for over twenty years.Edwards started his career with the BBC in 1950 as a broadcaster. He worked on regional news programmes and reported on such events as the Aberfan disaster. In 1961 he began presenting Heddiw (‘Today’), the BBC's Welsh early evening news programme. He took a role behind the camera in 1966.In 1974, Edwards was made director of BBC Wales. Under his control, both Radio Wales and Radio Cymru were launched. He left the post in 1981 to found S4C, a Welsh language television station. He stayed with the channel until his retirement in 1989. In 2008, Edwards was presented with a special achievement award for his contributions to media.Menna Richards, the current director of BBC Wales, commented on Edwards death. She said, “He was a man who truly loved Wales, and his legacy to our nation's public life is rich and enduring.” Current S4C chair John Walter Jones said, “He managed to establish a Welsh language television service that was admired throughout the world.”Despite having over 1,300 locations more than Wendy's, Burger King bumped down to the number three ranking of United States hamburger chains. In 2011, Wendy's sales came out on top with $8.5 billion with Burger King close behind at $8.4 billion. Wendy's edged Burger King out of the number two spot for the first time since Dave Thomas founded the company in 1969. McDonald's still holds the number one spot, squashing both Wendy's and Burger King with sales of more than $34 billion from 14,098 U.S. locations. Around the globe, Burger King clutches onto the number two ranking among hamburger joints.Since 2006, the restaurant business has had a make-over in the top five competitors. According to Technomic, the top three restaurant chains used to be comprised entirely of hamburger chains: including McDonalds, Burger King and Wendy's, respectively. Today, Subway is ranked second with $11.4 billion — a 48 percent jump, with Starbucks right behind with $9.8 billion — a 39 percent jump. According to Technomic, Five Guys Burgers and Fries is creeping up on the other chains by making the largest leap last year.West Virginia University has once again been named "number 1 party school" by the Princeton Review. School administrators say they are disappointed, because they have been trying to curb underage drinking and rowdy behavior. The school has made the list seven times in the past 15 years. WVU senior Katie O'Hara says the school keeps making the list because, "No matter what kind of party you want it's here -- bars, fraternities, house parties."New WVU President Mike Garrison said, "I'm focused on the way this university changes people's lives, the research that we do and the service we provide to the state of West Virginia."Garrison also pointed out the university finished among the top ten in other categories: No. 4 in Students Pack the Stadiums; No. 5 for Best College Library; No. 6 for Lots of Beer; No. 7 for Lots of Hard Liquor; and No. 8 for Best College Newspaper.At number two on the party list was the University of Mississippi, followed by the University of Texas at Austin, the University of Florida, the University of Georgia, and Penn State University.However, Brigham Young University, took the top spot in the "stone cold sober" category for the tenth year in a row.John Spencer, who played vice presidential candidate Leo McGarry on NBC's "The West Wing," died of a heart attack Friday, his publicist said.Spencer, 58, died at a Los Angeles hospital, said publicist Ron Hofmann. Hofmann released no other immediate details. Spencer's work on the show earned him an Emmy Award for supporting actor in a drama series in 2002, as well as a Golden Globe nomination. Before appearing on the hit political drama, Spencer played the quirky and charismatic New York attorney Tommy Mullaney on "L.A. Law."The Benet Academy varsity boys basketball team defeated the Wheaton Academy Warriors 64–55 in a non-conference game Tuesday night, handing the host West Chicago, Illinois, United States school its first loss to a team from Illinois and second loss overall this season. The gym was filled to standing-room-only capacity and Warriors fans donned white t-shirts specifically made for this event, saying "BEAT BENET" and claiming "There is only one Academy." Sixteen Wheaton Academy fans wore their school uniforms during the game. Such a show of support ultimately did not lead the Warriors to victory, however, even with 6-foot, 9-inch The College of William & Mary-recruit Tim Rusthoven on their side. Rusthoven was the focus of Benet's defensive strategy. As the Redwings point guard Dave Sobolewski said, "We knew that we wouldn't be able to take him out of the game with just a single guy. We had to take him out with our entire team, and we did a great job doing that."Wheaton Academy had a 19–15 lead at the end of the first quarter. Benet would never trail again for the rest of the game, however, with Sobolewski scoring ten points in the second quarter to give the Redwings a 37–32 lead at halftime. Benet eventually led by a huge margin of 56–41 with four minutes and 31 seconds left in the game. The Warriors managed to narrow that lead to 58–53 with 44.2 seconds left, but the Redwings successfully made eight of 12 free throws in the final one minute and five seconds.Wheaton Academy coach Paul Ferguson commented, "They were very physical. They killed us on offensive rebounds...Benet played a real good game, they shot ball well and rebounded well." Rusthoven had 21 points and seven rebounds, while Sobolewski also had 21 points but only five rebounds.The Warriors, now with a record of 20–2, had won seven straight games before this one. "We knew it was a big game from their standpoint. They were 20–1 and hadn't won by less than 12 points. We came in and took care of business," said Sobolewski. Benet, with a record of 18–3, now has an eight-game winning streak as well. The Redwings, still undefeated in conference, are now in contention for their first East Suburban Catholic Conference championship since the 1994–1995 season. Eddie Burns of the Naperville Sun attributes Benet's success to its defensive strategy, which he says is "making life miserable for the opposition". As of February 5, the Redwings had let their opponents score an average of 41 points. As forward Mike Runger said, "I think everyone on this team really values defense. Players on this team know that defense is what can get wins."Cathedral Square, Sydney, Australia —Wikinews attended the Wheelchair Rugby Tri-Nations Series in Cathedral Square, Sydney, ongoing from Wednesday. This is the first time an international wheelchair rugby event has been held outdoors, and in this arena. Three nations are competing: the United States, Australia, and New Zealand.The venue is Cathedral Square, Sydney, which is adjacent to Hyde Park. The Sydney Central Business district is on the other side of the park. An outdoor stadium has been constructed specifically for the tournament, which is believed to be the first time an international wheelchair rugby tournament has been held outdoors. This choice was validated by the fine and warm weather. Free sunscreen was given to the crowd.The Opening Ceremony was officiated by Australian Paralympic Committee Chief Executive Officer Jason Hellwig. In attendance were the Premier of New South Wales, Barry O'Farrell, the Deputy Lord Mayor of Sydney, Robyn Kemmis, and Paralympic swimmer Matthew Cowdrey. A large crowd, mostly consisting of school groups, was entertained by boy band Justice Crew singing their hit Best Night. Each team is to play the others two twice, on Wednesday September 18 and Thursday September 19. Finals are to be held on Friday. All three teams are highly ranked internationally. The United States team is ranked number one in the world. It won bronze at the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens, gold at the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing, and bronze at the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London, and is the current world champion. This is its first visit to Australia since the 2000 Summer Paralympics. The Australian team, known as the Steelers, is ranked second in the world. It  won silver in Beijing and gold in London. The team is almost unchanged from the one that won in London. Greg Smith has become the assistant coach.The first game, held immediately after the Opening Ceremony, was between the United States and Australia. The United States proved the better team, forcing errors and turnovers. Three turnovers in the first quarter were especially costly for the Steelers, who lost 56–43.The second game was held at 17:30 under lights. The crowd was small, but there were a number of New Zealand fans in the crowd, including a few Maori. Two of the New Zealand players are also Maori. The well-disciplined United States team proved too good for the Wheel Blacks as well, who lost 58–40 in an entertaining contest.The third game was at 19:30, between Australia and New Zealand. The Australians led the whole game, which was nonetheless entertaining to the last. In the dying seconds of the game, Australia's Ryley Batt shunted a stalling New Zealand player across the line to force him to score, then threw the ball to team mate Chris Bond, who raced for the line at high speed but was beaten by the buzzer. Australia won 61–48.The New Zealand team, known as the Wheel Blacks, is ranked tenth in the world. It won gold in Athens.Highlights of the tournament are scheduled to be shown on Foxtel Sports  in Australia on September 28 and 29.The United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing today on the accusation that the Bush Administration had interfered with data regarding climate change in order "to mislead the public by injecting doubt into the science of global warming."  On January 23, 2007, Chairman Henry Waxman (D) and Tom Davis (R) had requested documents from the Council on Environmental Quality but were denied access.Waxman said that, "The committee isn't trying to obtain state secrets or documents that could affect our immediate national security.  We are simply seeking answers to whether the White House's political staff is inappropriately censoring impartial government scientists.  We know that the White House possesses documents that contain evidence of an attempt by senior administration officials to mislead the public by injecting doubt into the science of global warming and minimize the potential danger."During the hearing, two private advocacy groups, one of which was the Union of Concerned Scientists, also presented a survey to the panel that revealed that 279 scientists working for the government had been pressured into minimizing the threat of global warming in their reports.  Almost half of the 279 said that they were told to delete any references to "global warming" or "climate change" in their reports.  The scientists in the survey all worked for a wide array of government agencies: NASA, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Agriculture, Department of Energy, Department of Commerce, Department of Defense, and the Department of Interior.American singer Whitney Houston's debut performance in the United Kingdom didn't go exactly to plan on Sunday night, causing a bit of controversy.During her performance of her new single Million dollar Bill on the UK television show The X Factor Sunday evening, she  experienced a 'wardrobe malfunction'.  The strap on her back, holding her dress together, suddenly snapped off about midway through her performance.  She also had a difficult time walking and dancing on the stage, as her dress appeared to be too long.  Houston carried on and at no time stopped the performance."I sang right out of my dress," Houston said after her performance  to the show's host Dermot O'Leary.X Factor fans began to complain on the show's website as a result of the interview with O'Leary.  Some accused Houston of being on drugs, because of her shaky voice while being interviewed.  Other fans called her performance "a waste of talent" and disappointing.  However, other fans criticized those who made the comments telling them to "put the past behind" them. Houston has not responded to the accusations. It has been over a decade since Houston last performed in the UK.The top money grossing entertainers in Australia in 2005 were not Kylie Minogue, Nicole Kidman, or Russell Crowe. In fact, it was four tot-time entertainers, the Wiggles, with their preference for bright colours and sing-along dance numbers.  Their earnings level was estimated at AU$45 million over the last year by Australian publication Business Review Weekly (BRW), in its yearly who's-who ranking of the nation's top 50 entertainment earners."They got into the market early, they took time to understand their audience, not only children but the parents who pay for everything," BRW managing editor Tony Featherstone, said.Though almost doubling her earnings from the previous year, Nicole Kidman only made second place, at AU$40m. And Crowe came in third, at "only" AU$27m. Fourth place was long-time heavy metal favourites, AC/DC, whose estimated income was AU$18m.Another children's entertainment band, Hi-5 came in sixth with $15m, after Naomi Watts.Actress, Oscar, Emmy, Grammy and Tony Award winner, Whoopi Goldberg will be taking Rosie O'Donnell's place as co-host of The View.It was confirmed by the shows host Barbara Walters on Wednesday's show who said that Goldberg will begin to co-host on September 4, the shows season premiere. Shortly after the announcement, Goldberg made an appearance on the show."I love this show! I love coming on it. I love hanging out with you guys," said Goldberg who also said that she does not plan to have a feud with any of the other co-hosts."Who knows? Anybody could say 'I don't like her.' That's OK. I just won't come to your home," added Goldberg.When O'Donnell co-hosted The View, she sparked a feud with Donald Trump after O'Donnell called Trump a "pimp" in her personal blog by saying that Trump "has no right to be the moral compass for 20-year-olds in America."Goldberg has starred in such films as The Color Purple (1985), Ghost (1990) and Sister Act One and Two (1992 & 1993)NDP Group released the independent February United States video game sale reports today leaving gaming companies with things to both worry, and jump for joy about. Nintendo had a strong lead last month with the DS and Wii at the top of the list at 485,000 and 335,000 units sold, respectively. Nintendo alone sold 54% of industry wide merchandise.Microsoft beat out Nintendo for best-selling game of the month with its Xbox 360 exclusive game, Crackdown.  Nintendo filled the other 3 spots in the top 4 with Wii Play with Wiimote at number 2, Diddy Kong Racing at number 3, and The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess coming in 4th.Sony only made one spot on the top 10 best-selling games list for February with Guitar Hero 2 bundle coming in 5th overall.The president of the American Nintendo, Reggie Fils-Aime said, "We're gratified that the explosive appeal of Wii, in terms of both new players and new ways to play, has created unprecedented demand, substantially beyond supply."Last week fifty volunteers, from nine countries covering nineteen languages, spent four days at the European Parliament buildings in Strasbourg photographing and filming members of the parliament (MEPs). This being an effort to significantly increase the audio-visual content available in Wikipedia and other Wikimedia Foundation projects.Members of the team, who were all granted guest press accreditation, began arriving at the hotel in the small town of Kork, not far from the France–Germany border, on Saturday. The team base, Hotel Ochsen, has an interesting history. Placards on the courtyard wall explain it served as headquarters for Field marshal Kollowrat-Krakowsky battling Napoleonic forces in the 1796 Siege of Kehl.Those arriving later came directly to the Louise Weiss building, which hosts the parliament's plenary sessions and all voting on EU matters. Whilst staying in the hotel, the Wikimedian group met two MEPs who chose it in-preference to dramatically more-expensive Strasbourg accommodation. One of the ushers from the parliament also chatted with volunteers at the hotel, self-depricatingly describing his ceremonial attire as a "penguin suit" due to the long-tailed jacket.One of the first day's MEPs to introduce themselves to the visiting Wikimedians was Christian Engström; delivering copies of his book, The Case for Copyright Reform, co-authored with  Swedish Pirate Party founder Rickard Falkvinge. Engström explained that, in the book, he argues Wikipedia is one of the losers under current copyright legislation. One of numerous MEPs who recorded video introductions in multiple languages, he was more-confident than some colleagues — the most-challenging taking thirteen takes to successfully record.Over 1,000 new, high-quality, photographs were taken and uploaded for use on Wikimedia projects during the visit. The second and third days in the parliament saw the highest number of MEPs coming to see the visiting Wikimedians and have their photographs taken. Once photographed, MEPs were encouraged to make video introductions in languages they were comfortable speaking in. In excess of 200 video clips of MEPs introducing themselves were captured; this providing freely-reusable audio and video records available via Wikimedia Commons. Parliamentarians became more-enthusiastic about the project in its later days, with significantly more turning up to be photographed and filmed. Given some turned up as Wikimedians were packing up on the last day, some still lack freely-licensed photographs for their Wikipedia entries. French MEP, and National Front member, Bruno Gollnisch was amongst those disappointed when turning up after much of the equipment was packed up; although Gollnisch has already provided some video recordings, he had returned with additional prepared texts — including Japanese — for use in a video introduction.Despite much of two levels within the parliament set aside for the press, the event received little coverage from mainstream media. France TV's channel three broadcast a report on the  Thursday, making footage available via their website on the Friday.In contrast the Voice intro project (WikiVIP) started by Andy Mabbett, and brought to a far-wider audience with Stephen Fry's endorsement, saw Mabbet give an interview from one of the parliament's radio studios with United States' public radio network NPR. With Fry's recording catching the attention of the press, that project has received coverage from as-far afield as Italy, Russia, and Japan.Audio for use on Wikipedia is to be extracted from video recordings of MEPs for use on Wikimedia projects. As available storage and bandwidth increases, it is a longer-term goal of the Wikimedia Foundation to increase freely-available, and reusable, multimedia content across all projects hosted by the Foundation.The project also served as an opportunity to emphasise that all Wikimedia content is created through people donating their time and effort. Whilst MEPs knew anyone could edit Wikipedia, meeting a group representing all ages, and much of Europe, served as an effective public-relations exercise.On the second day of Wikimania 2007 in Taipei, Group Sessions continued, while the Virtual i.d.ea Interactive Net Art 2007 Exhibition attracted visitors and participants. This exhibition shows the creation of interactions by using creative contents. Four college teams and two  individuals exhibited their work.This exhibition is mainly focused on Interactive Net Art. Visitors can interact with those artworks, such as "Many Me", "Not One Less", and "One Million Heartbeats", which explored identity, information and community behavior .Kevin Lam from Hong Kong and Marius Watz from Norway also brought "Mobile Brush" and "Neon Organic / Electro Plastique" artworks to show the culture of freedom of Interactive Net Art.The Wikimania 2007 Conference will end on August 5. Submitting free-licensed works for the Wikimania Awards is still in progress, the deadline being 8:00 a.m. August 5 (Taipei time). Wikimania Award winners will be announced at the Closing Ceremony.Counting down to Wikimania 2007, the Site Events such as "Hacking Days & Extra", "One Laptop Per Child Curriculum Jam", and the "Citizen Journalism Unconference" preluded the main conference.On August 1, Cary Bass and many other programmers participated in the Hacking Days. Mike "b6s" Jiang hosted this two-day long event where programmers can  exchange experiences.That same day, the One Laptop Per Child Curriculum Jam kicked off. Project Director Samuel "SJ" Klein invited many teams with an interest in freely licensed content to produce learning materials, which youngsters from 6 to 16 years of age could judge.The Citizen Journalism Unconference was held August 2. It hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation and Public Television Services Taiwan (PTS). The organization invited Frontier Foundation Researcher Shu-fang Tsai and Facilitator of Institute of Culture Affairs Taiwan Gail West to host this unconference. The Unconference was held in an open space style. Topics for discussion were created by participants at the unconference. In this unconference, participants talked about lots of free content portals comparisons, such as PeoPo by PTS Taiwan, the characteristics and role of citizen journalists, the comparisons between citizen journalism and professional journalism, and the future of citizen journalism.After these events, the main conference will start at August 3, 2007 9:00 Taipei local time.Thursday saw the start of the fourth International Wikimedia Conference, better known as Wikimania 2008. The conference is being held in the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, a modern library with conference facilities for multiple tracks as well as a grand hall where the opening ceremony and first presentation were held.Speakers for the opening ceremony: His Excellency Dr. Ahmed Darwish, the Egyptian Minister of State for Administrative Development, Florence Devouard, the outgoing chair of the Wikimedia Foundation, Mohamed Ibrahim the active lead volunteer, who took the initiative of approaching Bibliotheca Alexandrina to collaborate on the bidding and the organization of Wikimania 2008 along with the enthusiastic local volunteers, and finally  Jakob Voss head of the program committee.The theme of this year's conference is "Change the shape of wisdom", and the choice of location is seen as an outreach to the Arabic and African communities.According to Dr. Darwish, the conference has the full support of the Egyptian Prime Minister who would have attended but for a clash with a prior engagement. In his introductory talk he described wikis as becoming more reliable and being a form of globalization which did not destroy local identity.Talking of Egyptian efforts to improve education and make it a more continuous process he discussed increased e-Government and the fact that in this area Egypt had come in the top 25% of UN surveyed countries. The country's young population is seen as a driving factor in increasing Internet use.Optimistically, Dr Darwish spoke of the move from a two-sided situation to more collaboration between government and citizens.Florence Devouard spoke briefly about the library, comparing their goals with those of the Wikimedia Foundation and drawing a number of parallels. One of the projects hosted by the library is a mirror of the Internet Archive. As a surprise announcement, she revealed that the language subcommittee had approved the creation of a new Wikipedia version for Egyptian Arabic.Mohamed Ibrahim talked on how Alexandria winning the bid had significantly raised the profile of wiki projects within the Arab and African media. This was evidenced at a press conference held early that afternoon. Around six or seven TV crews were present along with at least 30 reporters. Despite not being Western media, the focus of questioning was on academic skepticism towards Wikipedia; the oft-repeated confusion between Wikia and the Wikimedia Foundation was dismissed when raised. Jakob Voss, the last member of the opening ceremony team, gave a rundown of a number of statistics. The conference received over 150 submissions for talks and workshops. Of these approximately 75 were approved with around 100 speakers due to talk during the course of the three day conference.Participation in the conference is around 650 attendees, coming from 47 different countries around the globe, in addition to some 80 other participants, including individuals from local and international media, sponsors representatives, BA directors and WMF advisory and board members.At a well-attended press conference the usual issues were raised, such as the reliability of Wikipedia as a source. It was also announced that with the stepping down of Florence Devouard as Chair of the WMF board, her successor will be Michael Snow.Jimmy Wales gave a speech titled Freedom of speech, human rights, and free culture. In his speech he made a comparison between the Freedom House rating with the size of the Wikipedia in that language. He found a link between the two in the cases he examined. Other presentations included Rhonda Shearer's speech on media accountability, Foundation goals and plans with Sue Gardner and Erik Möller.The day ended with a board panel providing an opportunity for discussion with the board and a question & answer segment. This included the announcement that the new chair of the Foundation is Michael Snow.File:BACC.jpgAccording to an official mailing list post from Wikimedia Volunteer Coordinator Cary Bass, Wikimania 2008 will be held in Alexandria, Egypt.The location was chosen because it is "particularly strong in the areas of reflecting the Wikimedia Foundation's roots in geo-diversity and multi-lingualism". According to the final tally, Alexandria placed first in the Funding, Location, Organizing Team, Rotation, Cost, and Venue. Alexandria had 3026 points total.In second place with 2419 points was Atlanta, Georgia, United States. They placed first in Accommodation, Internet Access, Local Laws, Press, and Social Areas.Finally, Cape Town, South Africa had 2003 points, placing first in Visas only.The motto selected for Alexandria's bid is "Let The Knowledge Be Free Everywhere", Atlanta's was "A new day for the New South", and Cape Town's was "Wikimania 2008. The International Wikimania Conference."According to the post, the Jury used 12 different categories including Accommodation, Funding, Internet Access, Press, Organizing Team, and Visas. Each member of the jury had 60 points to assign to the three proposed venues.The decision has provoked some debate on the selection process; complaints have been raised about honour killings and gay rights within Egypt, with some asserting that the human rights record of the country should have factored more into the decision process. In reaction to this criticism Jimmy Wales has decided his talk at the conference will be entitled "Free knowledge and human rights".Karlsruhe, London, and Toronto submitted official bids, but later withdrew at various points throughout the process.On March 28, the jury in charge of selecting the location of Wikimania 2009 announced that the annual conference will be held in the city of Buenos Aires, the capital of the Argentine Republic.According to a an official mailing list post from Wikimedia Volunteer Coordinator Cary Bass, Phoebe Ayers, and James Forrester made on behalf of the jury, Buenos Aires was chosen because of the "strong, organized team" behind the bid, the "detailed budget proposal and planning schedule," the "significant number of sponsors already lined up," "relaxed visa rules," because it has a "solid venue, situated within a well-maintained cultural center in a major international city," and because of its "good Spanish-language media contacts."Buenos Aires was selected out of 4 official bids, including Toronto, Brisbane, and Karlsruhe.The conference venue will be the General San Martín Cultural Centre, located in the heart of the city. The conference will also be sponsored by entities like the Buenos Aires Tourism Authority and the National University of La Plata.The bid was mainly organized by the members of Wikimedia Argentina, a local chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation.This will be the first Wikimania celebrated in the South American continent and the first in a Spanish-speaking country.Wikimania is an annual international conference for the editors of Wikimedia projects. The first conference was held in Frankfurt, Germany, on August 4-8, 2005; the second conference was held in Boston, USA, on August 4-6, 2006; the third one was held in Taipei, Taiwan, on August 3-5, 2007; this year's conference will be held on July 17-19 in Alexandria, Egypt.Yesterday, a chilly Amsterdam hosted the Wikimedia Conference Netherlands 2007. Held at the Aristo centre in a suburb of the city and run by Wikimedia Netherlands, the conference was a short train ride from Amsterdam Centraal railway station. The topic, Wikis and Education (Wiki's en Educatie in Dutch). This was an opportunity for Wikimedians and people in education to come together and see how collaboration could help both.Wikinews freelance reporter Brian McNeil caught a train from Brussels in Belgium and attended, making an impression on the Wikimedia Foundation chair, Florence Devouard, by spilling her coffee over the first two speakers approximately three minutes before they were supposed to officially open the conference.Out of a record number of applications and 273 nominees, the World Economic Forum (WEF) has chosen the Wikimedia Foundation as one of the 2008 Pioneers of Technology. 38 other organisations or companies have also been selected for the list of pioneers. "Technology Pioneers are companies that have been identified as developing and applying highly transformational and innovative technologies in the areas of energy, biotechnology and health, and information technology," said a press release issued by the Forum.The Wikimedia Foundation was chosen in part because of the ability to provide free, collaborative knowledge which is distributed by people all over the world and its involvement in "the development of life changing technology innovation" with the "potential for long-term impact on business and society, demonstrating visionary leadership and having a proven technology," referring to Wikipedia, Wikinews, Wikiversity and Wikimedia Commons."We are honored that the Wikimedia Foundation was chosen as a technology pioneer. However, I must point out that the organisation itself is only partly responsible of our amazing success in developing and applying highly transformational and innovative technologies in the area of information. The real recognition goes to the thousands of Wikimedians, editors and developers of MediaWiki, all over the world, who have been the source and the spirit of our projects in the past seven years. The award really goes to them," said Chair of the WMF Board of Trustees, Florence Devouard."The nomination is a reminder of the amazing things humans can accomplish when working collaboratively and positively together. It is also the inspiration we need to continue empowering world citizens to share in the sum of all human knowledge. Allow me to use this opportunity to say to all those who have worked so hard to make Wikipedia and the other Wikimedia projects so valuable: thank you," added Devouard.Among some of the requirements for a company to qualify or be nominated to be a technology pioneer, they must meet a certain criteria such as "innovative technology, potential of impact on society, growth and sustainability, proof of concept, leadership and status meaning the organization cannot already be a member of the Forum or affiliated with it."By partnering with the best brains and the smartest ideas in the world, organizations can deliver innovation at the speed of their customers' lives. The Technology Pioneers 2008 will make great innovation partners for any organization that chooses to do business with them," said technology officer Matt Bross.The winners are chosen by a panel of technology experts for the WEF.Among other organizations or companies to be given the honor includes, 23andMe.com, NuLens Ltd., RainDance Technologies Cima NanoTech Inc. and Silver Spring Networks. The companies come from the United States, Israel, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Switzerland, Canada, France, Germany, India, the Netherlands and Russia. What makes the Wikimedia Foundation unique, is they are apparently the only non-profit organisation on the list.The WEF, founded in 1971, operates on an international and independent level and is "committed to improving the state of the world by engaging leaders in partnerships to shape global, regional and industry agendas."Forty-seven other companies and organisations became pioneers in 2007.The Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization which administers online collaborative websites including Wikipedia and Wikinews, announced yesterday that its general counsel Mike Godwin will leave his position this Friday. The author of Cyber Rights: Defending Free speech in the Digital Age, Godwin is a former fellow at the Yale Center for Internet Studies and staff counsel for the Electronic Frontier Foundation who has served as chief lawyer for the Wikimedia Foundation since July 2007.Executive Director of the Wikimedia Foundation Sue Gardner announced the news in a public email. She wrote, "Hi folks, I want to let you know that as of this Friday, October 22, 2010, Mike Godwin will be leaving his role as General Counsel for the Wikimedia Foundation. Mike’s transition out of the role will be a fairly lengthy one: he will continue to be available to the Wikimedia Foundation to provide information and advice for several months to come."Gardner stated in a "Q and A" below the text of her email that Godwin was leaving the organization due to "a confidential personnel issue", and explained that the foundation would not elaborate upon this due to privacy concerns. Gardner noted, "The Wikimedia Foundation believes Mike has always acted in what he believes to be the Wikimedia Foundation’s best interests."Godwin has focused his legal career in the areas of free speech and Internet law. In an article regarding his 1999 selection as a fellow at the Yale Center for Internet Studies, The Hartford Courant characterized Godwin as "a noted cyberspace lawyer and civil libertarian". He is noted for writing "Godwin's Law", an Internet maxim which states, "As an online discussion grows longer, the probability of a comparison involving Nazis or Hitler approaches one."Godwin became the first attorney to join the Electronic Frontier Foundation after its formation in 1990. In a 2007 interview with The New York Times, Godwin commented on the issue of defamation online, "The fear of defamation on the Internet is very strong. We’re going to be riding that social panic for a little bit." He described his role at the Wikimedia Foundation, "Part of my job is to prevent restrictive rules from being put in place that prevent people from participating in massively democratic participatory media. And then let the new norms settle." He acknowledged he empathized with others that had been criticized on the Internet, "Look, I have been smeared online. I know how bad it feels. It hurts. If democracy were comfortable, everybody would have it."On Monday, October 22, as the latest Wikimedia fundraiser began, Wikinews reporter Brian McNeil thought his own small donation could be turned into a bigger donation by his buying some advertising on a popular website and encouraging others to contribute. With this in mind he approached Howard Tayler, creator of the Schlock Mercenary webcomic.Tayler's response was not as McNeil expected, prompting a Wikinews investigation. Tayler refused to help the foundation raise money although he conceded that he does sometimes use the site. Instead he explained that some members of the webcomic community feel slighted by Wikipedia because over 50 articles on webcomics were deemed not to meet their notability guidelines and were deleted during January and February of 2007. Some members of the webcomics community considered this unacceptable. Whilst some of the comic related articles deleted did not qualify for inclusion in the encyclopedia under Wikipedia guidelines, the deletion of a large number of articles in such a short time period struck some webcomics writers and fans as a selective purge.Much of the criticism has been focused on Wikipedia editor Dragonfiend, who has described notability as "whether a topic has been noted by independent reputable sources". She has said that "If we include every article that anyone wants to write, then the encyclopedia becomes useless because nobody can find the actual needle of worthwhile information on a topic hidden in that hay stack of trivia." She has said Wikipedia should only have articles on webcomics like Penny Arcade, Get Your War On, Fetus-X, and Achewood.This deletion of numerous webcomic articles has not sat well with some in the webcomic community. Modern Tales editor and Websnark blogger Eric Burns has written that "There are people -- and Dragonfiend is clearly one of them -- who are clearly going through Wikipedia looking for articles that should be weeded out as non-notable. and they're doing it in fields they clearly -- I mean, clearly -- have no interest, experience or knowledge." Erfworld and PartiallyClips writer Rob Balder has expressed similar viewpoints, calling the deletion of the webcomics articles a "goddamned crime" and describing a "deletionist jihad" by "the politest bunch of book-burning assholes on the planet". Balder also labelled "Deletionism" as a form of "naughtymancy" magic in Erfworld. Deletionism refers to the Wikipedia ideology that favours relatively rigorous standards for maintaining access to articles, as opposed to inclusionism which favours keeping and amending problematic articles.There is concern among some webcomic groups that the notability guidelines are too rigorous for the typical webcomic. The standards usually require significant coverage in reliable sources that are independent of the subject, which is rare since even comics with dedicated followings do not always attract mainstream book publishers or reviews from mainstream journalists. It seems that this policy has alienated webcomic artists and fans and discouraged them from contributing to Wikipedia. Conflicts such as this are not uncommon. Members of a Wikimedia Foundation mailing list pointed to other examples where the application of the rules has been perceived to be selective, leaving other communities disgruntled with a variety of Wikimedia projects, not just Wikipedia.On December 7, Wikinews first reported that some Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in the United Kingdom, were filtering access to an image and an article on the popular, free online encyclopedia Wikipedia, amid allegations that they contain child pornography. The filter was brought into play by the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), which issued a statement regarding the filtering shortly after Wikinews published the article. Wikimedia, the host of Wikinews and Wikipedia oppose the IWF's actions, also issuing a statement."A Wikipedia web page, was reported through the IWF’s online reporting mechanism in December 2008. As with all child sexual abuse reports received by our Hotline analysts, the image was assessed according to the UK Sentencing Guidelines Council (page 109). The content was considered to be a potentially illegal indecent image of a child under the age of 18, but hosted outside the UK," said the IWF in a statement posted on their website.The image and article in question is that of the 1976 album Virgin Killer, a studio album by the Scorpions, a German rock band.  The controversy began after the image of the album's original cover, which depicted a naked prepubescent girl, was reported to the IWF in early December. Wikinews first discovered the controversial image in May 2008 after there were several attempts to delete it on Wikipedia. The image had been blocked because the IWF considered it to be "potentially illegal". As a result, the IWF have contacted authorities in the United States and in the UK.The measures applied redirect Wikipedia-bound traffic from a significant portion of the UK's Internet population through a small number of servers which can log and filter the content that is available to the end user. A serious side-effect of this is the inability of administrators on Wikimedia sites to block vandals and other troublemakers without potentially impacting hundreds of thousands of innocent contributors who are working on the sites in good faith.Contributors or individuals attempting to view an affected image or file, depending on their ISP, may get a warning saying, "we have blocked this page because, according to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), it contains indecent images of children or pointers to them; you could be breaking UK law if you viewed the page." Other ISPs provide blank pages, 404 errors, or other means of blocking the content.Wikimedia was not informed that the image would be blacklisted because the IWF "does not issue takedown notices to ISPs or hosting companies outside the UK". The servers for Wikimedia projects are located in Florida in the U.S., and according to Jay Walsh, the head of communications for Wikimedia, the Foundation "opposes" the action taken by the IWF."The IWF has confirmed to the Wikimedia Foundation that it has added Wikipedia to itsblacklist, which also had the unintended consequence of rendering UK-based internet usersunable to edit the encyclopedia," said Walsh."We did advise one of our partner Hotlines abroad and our law enforcement partner agency of our assessment. The specific URL (individual webpage) was then added to the list provided to ISPs and other companies in the online sector to protect their customers from inadvertent exposure to a potentially illegal indecent image of a child," added the statement by the IWF."We have no reason to believe the article, or the image contained in the article, has beenheld to be illegal in any jurisdiction anywhere in the world. We believe it's worth noting that the image is currently visible on Amazon, where the album can be freely purchased by UK residents. Itis available on thousands of websites that are accessible to the UK public," said Mike Godwin, legal counsel for Wikimedia. The cover has since been removed from Amazon.com.Wikimedia projects such as Wikinews state in their policies that they are "not censored". Wikimedia will continue discussions with the IWF in hopes of resolving the issue.News broke early this morning on Facebook that Wikipedian Adrianne Wadewitz died while rock climbing recently. Wadewitz was well known in the Wikimedia community for her activism drawing attention to the lack of female contributors on Wikipedia. She was also very involved in the Wiki Education Foundation, serving as a member of its board of directors.Wadewitz was one of the most visible women in the media on the under-representation of women amongst contributors to Wikipedia, talking to media organizations like the BBC, the Huffington Post and non-English publications like Greek-language magazine LIFO. Some estimates put female participation rates at around 10% of contributors and there is a body of academic work talking about systemic bias against topics featuring women on Wikipedia. She was involved in organizing several edit-a-thons aimed at encouraging greater female participation and improving content about women, including Wikipedia Takes America: Los Angeles, FemTech Edit-a-thon, Wikipedia Loves Eagle Rock, Wikipedia Loves WeHo, and Feminists Engage Wikipedia. Wadewitz's own work to address systemic bias as an article contributor included improving English Wikipedia articles relating to women, including:Mary WollstonecraftThoughts on the Education of DaughtersMary: A FictionA Vindication of the Rights of WomanMaria: or, The Wrongs of WomanTimeline of Mary WollstonecraftFanny ImlayMary ShelleyAnna Laetitia BarbauldSarah TrimmerMary Martha SherwoodShe started contributing to English Wikipedia in July 2004.  She had taught two classes on collaborative work on the project, and was involved with FemTechNet Wikistorming, an academic effort to encourage more women involved in academia to contribute to Wikipedia.  In the past month, she had written several blog entries on HASTAC, an online collaborative platform dedicated to changing the way people learn, about how to write about academics on Wikipedia.Fellow activist Sarah Stierch said in a public post on Facebook, "My heart hurts. Adrianne was a leading voice - and her legacy still is - in the work we have been doing to get more women and more diverse peoples contributing to Wikipedia. Two days ago she was quoted in the BBC, for godsake." Stierch went on to say, "A sarcastic, feminist, smart, brilliant, to the point delivery type of academic genius who held an honest love life for all to see and a life in LA that was becoming one she owned."At the time of her death, she was a Mellon Digital Scholarship Fellow at Occidental College. In 2011, she earned her PhD from Indiana University.Wikimedians are memorializing her on her Wikipedia talk page, which is adorned with a picture of a funerary arrangement of flowers. A notice at the top of the page invites condolences, which have been arriving in their dozens. "This is a crushing loss, for the Wikipedia community and the world. There was no one else like her." wrote one contributor. Another noted "Adrianne embodied brilliance, determination, and enthusiasm in everything she did."Cynthia Ashley-Nelson died the night before last while attending the Wikimedia Conference in Berlin, Germany. She was very active in the Wikimedia movement, and was named the vice-chair of Wikimedia's Affiliations Committee on Thursday, the day prior to her death, after only having joined the Committee earlier this year. The day before she died, she spent a lot of time talking to a number of the event's attendees and spent time with several members of the Affiliations Committee. An announcement regarding her death was made on the main Wikimedia mailing list this morning by Bence Dakamos, a conference attendee and the previous chair of the Affiliations Committee. In part, the e-mail announcement said, "We are sad beyond words and so is everyone who came to Berlin to participate in the Wikimedia Conference. Her passing is a great loss for everyone in the Wikimedia movement. This morning all the conference attendees gathered together to grieve and talk about the loss of Cindy. We decided that all of us at the Wikimedia Conference could choose to continue the conversations about the future of the movement Cindy cared so much about, as well as spending our time here to remember and celebrate her. She will be greatly missed."Fellow Affiliations Committee member Gregory Varnum said, "The Lord giveth, and The Lord taketh away. While the passage of time may allow us to forgive whatever greater presence you may believe in for taking her away, the passage of time will not result in us forgetting the amazing person she was, her passion for our movement, or the brilliance she brought to her volunteer work."Wikimedia Foundation board member María Sefidari said in her part on her personal blog, "I got to know Cindy a bit beyond that, for she wanted to test ideas and potential directions in which to take the movement. We would send each other long emails about movement roles and how to move forward with the movement. And as it usually happens, conversations turned from the more formal to the informal, eventually including little snippets of our every day lives, the good things that happened to us and the not so good. When we met for the first time face to face two days ago, we gave each other a big hug. In the session we had during the AffCom meeting she once again showed her passion and commitment to help reimagine the role of AffCom and how to help emerging and new affiliates. And at the end of that session, she was confirmed as the new vice-chair of AffCom. That speaks to the impact she made inside the committee in such a short time. I think our last interaction was about getting together at some moment during the conference to just hang out and talk. She had a great smile."Ashley-Nelson was actively involved in many parts of the Wikimedia community beyond her position on the Affiliations Committee. She served as a moderator on the Wikimedia Foundation's gendergap mailing list, a list dedicated to addressing the under representation of women as contributors. She became an Open-source Ticket Request System agent, handling requests from Wikimedia users who had problems they needed assistance with issues like copyright. She was an administrator on English Wikipedia. She had previously been a member of Wikimedia's Grant Advisory Committee, where she assisted in reviewing grant applications submitted by members of the Wikimedia community. She was involved with Wikimedia's Global Education Program, assisting students and professors with improving articles about global and United States public policy. She was also involved in the education program as an Online Ambassador, a member of the Ambassador Selection Team and Wikipedia Ambassador Steering Committee.An active Wikipedia contributor since 2007, she made over 30,000 contributions to English Wikipedia. She wrote eight Did You Knows that appeared on the front page of the project, and contributed to two Good Articles, the Washington: A Life article and the Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 10th Earl of Shaftesbury article. The day prior to her death, she welcomed a number of new users to the project and did other editing tasks like removing copyright violations and cleaning up promotional language found in articles.A Washington state resident, she was the founder and Executive Director of Catalyst Resource Network, having started the organization in December 2006. During the course of her professional career, she also worked for the Sycamore Street Review as a staff writer, Hookers for Jesus as the organization's Vice President, the Mental Health Planning and Advisory Council for the State of Washington, and several other roles for the State of Washington. She was honored several times in connection with her work.Members of the Affiliations Committee got together for a breakfast before heading to the conference. A grief counselor was available at the conference. A brief tribute was held at the start of today's proceedings, which Sefidari described as "touching".Toronto residents are abuzz as the stars walk among them, during the 2008 Toronto International Film Festival. The capital of and largest city in Ontario, Canada has been playing host to the premieres of major motion pictures, up-and-coming indy films, and international films alike. Over the last few years, the festival has become one of the most popular in the world.On September 5, Wikinews sent freelance photographer Richard Burdett to the eTalk Festival Party, held by television broadcaster CTV. Described as a celebration of Canadian and international film and filmmakers, the party was held at CTV's festival headquarters, the former CHUM-City Building. The red carpet extended into the parking lot stage area meaning celebrity guests were interviewed in the same spot where Diddy performed. DJ Samantha Ronson spun well into the night for revelers, as Lindsay Lohan hid from prying eyes inside the building.Hosted by Ben Mulroney and Tayna Kim of CTV's eTalk program, the party was broadcast live for an hour on Startv.On November 17 and November 18, Wikinews attended the 2018 Bangalore Comicbook Convention, in Karnataka, India. Beginning on Saturday morning, the ComicCon continued till Sunday. Organised by ComicCon India, who organised Comic Con in Hyderabad in October, this event was held at Karnataka Trade Promotion Organisation (KTPO)'s convention hall. Wikinews spoke to convention's international guests Ryan O'Sullivan, Dan Watters, and Vanesa Del Ray.UK-based freelancer comicbook writer Ryan O'Sullivan, who has worked for Image Comics and Vault Comics, and wrote video game comics including Eisenhorn, Warhammer 40,000, and Dark Souls, was one of the guests attending ComicCon. Along with him, London-based freelance comic book writer Dan Watters was also one of the attendants. Watters has worked with Image Comics on Limbo, as well as Lucifer for Vertigo Comics. Watters has also written comics for Assassin's Creed, Wolfenstein and Deep Roots. Cuban comic book artist Vanesa Del Rey was also one of the guest attendants, who has illustrated Scarlet Witch, Daredevil Annual, and Spider-Women Alpha for Marvel Comics; and Redlands for Image Comics.The convention started at 11 AM. Crossing between the genres of science fiction, horror, anime, fantasy and comics, the event sprawled throughout all corners of the facility. Marvel Zone, Amazon Video zone, AXN Live RED Special Session, Warner Bros' Aquaman and Fantastic Beasts: Crimes of Grindelwald experience, and Sony Pix zone attracted large number of audience.On day two, Sumit Kumar, creator of Chin Chin, inspired by Chacha Chaudhary and Tintin, had a panel in the afternoon.At 1:30 PM, there was a video presentation by Yali Dream Creations. The video was about The Village. Yali Dream Creations' Shamik Das Gupta said the story of their comic The Village is "supernatural, social, horror". Later, there was another presentation about their other comic, Rakshak ((hi))Hindi language: ‍Protector — A Hero Among Us, about a masked vigilante in India. The first part of the four-part comic was released in 2016's Delhi ComicCon, Gupta said. Gupta also added "Delhi gang rape story pushed me". The session ended around 1:45 PM.After Yali Dream Creations, there was a comic launch by Rahil Mohin. Mohin had previously launched Sufi Comics in 2008, The Wise Fool of Baghdad and two comics about Persian poet Rumi and now Blame it on Rahil. While he was on the panel, he was sketching cartoon, while the host was asking questions that Mohin had prepared, focused on the 90s cartoon themes. The questions were "[What was the] breed of Courage the Cowardly Dog?", "Catchphrase of Flintstone", and "Arch nemesis of Dexter". His session finished by 2 PM.At 2 PM, there was a session with AXN, and questions about AXN shows. Musician Shrey also played scores of various AXN shows on guitar, which audience had to guess. At 2:30 PM, there was a session with Cuban comic artist Vanesa Del Rey. She said it was her first convention in India, and said, "It is like any major convention in the US". This year, Vanesa Del Rey was nominated for an Eisner Award. During the discussion, she said she wanted to do sci-fi epic,romance, mystery and thriller comics in future. Regarding romance genre in comics, she said it is "something worth exploring". And regarding her career choice, she said her grandmother was an artist and her "family was very supportive".Later, there was a session with Sony PIX, with Minions appearing on the stage.The event finished around 8 PM."Bob from Sesame Street", actor and singer Bob McGrath, visited Sesame Place this Sunday for singing and book reading. One of the last remaining cast members from the 1969 first season, he is an accomplished singer with six children's albums to his credit, he performs family pop concerts and has appeared with more than 100 symphony orchestras in the U.S. and Canada. McGrath has authored eight books including Uh-Oh Gotta Go and Oops, Excuse Me Please.Sesame Place opened for the season in May, adding Abby Cadabby to its cast of life-size Muppets. The park offers a variety of wet and dry rides, as well as stage attractions. Christy Carlson Romano performed at the park four times over last weekend, as well as riding in its daily Rock Around the Block Parade. Previously this season, Christy had four concerts at the park.Wikinews is sending Lloyd David Photography to many of the concerts and Sesame Street cast meet-and-greets that are happening this year at the park. David specialises in headshots, models, event, and wedding photography.Wikinews reporter Nicholas Moreau contacted professional photographer David Fore of Lloyd David Photography to go to the recent Christy Carlson Romano concert at Sesame Place theme park in Langhorne, Pennsylvania.Romano, perhaps best known for her breakout role in Even Stevens opposite Shia LaBoeuf, is presumably working towards a new album, regularly posting new singles to her MySpace profile. She is listed as "indie" on her profile, having originally been signed to Disney Records.Romano has performed Belle in Beauty and the Beast on Broadway, as well as voice acting in the television series Kim Possible and video game Kingdom Hearts.Sesame Place recently opened for the season, adding Abby Cadabby to its cast of life-size Muppets. The park offers a variety of wet and dry rides, as well as stage attractions. Christy performed at the park four times over last weekend, as well as riding in its daily Rock Around the Block Parade.Wikinews attended the Bangalore Comic Con comic-book convention on Saturday. Beginning on Saturday morning, it continued through to Sunday. Organised by Comic Con India, who organised Comic Con in Hyderabad in October and Mumbai in November, this event was held at Karnataka Trade Promotion Organisation (KTPO)'s convention hall.  Wikinews spoke to convention guests Sailesh Gopalan and John Layman.Freelancer comic book artist and illustrator Scott Hampton, known for sketching Batman, Black Widow, Sandman, Hellraiser and Star Trek, was among the featured guests at the convention. Along with him, professional cosplayer Tabitha Lyons, who dressed up like DC Comics's Wonder Woman on Saturday; freelancer comic book writer John Layman, writer of Chew, published by Image Comics; creator of Zen Pencils Gavin Aung Than; and creator of Brown Paperbag comics Sailesh Gopalan also attended the event as special guests.The event started at 11 AM IST (0530 UTC). Crossing between the genres of science fiction, horror, anime, fantasy and comics, the event sprawled throughout all corners of the facility. Marvel Zone, Amazon Video zone, AXN Live RED Special Session, Star Wars' Last Jedi zone and OnePlus smartphone zone attracted large number of audience. OnePlus, who were one of the sponsors of the event, had an exclusive launch of their new smartphone OnePlus 5T Star Wars, limited edition at about 5:30 PM. Marvel, Star Wars and AXN Live RED zones had quizzes about the Marvel Cinematic Universe, Star Wars, and the Sherlock Holmes TV series. Most of the Marvel questions were about the upcoming live action movie Black Panther.Holy Cow entertainment launched latest issues of their comics Age of Immortals and Caster. The Comic Con panel included sessions with Sailesh Gopalan about webcomics, Zen pencils creator Gavin Aung Than, as well as Scott Hampton. Focusing on Indian mythology, Indian comic book publisher Amar Chitra Katha conducted a quiz, and asked questions like, "Who was the mother of Nakul and Sahdev?" from the Mahabharat. After the quiz, people dressed as Stormtroopers, soldiers from Star Wars, took the stage, for the launch of the limited edition of OnePlus 5T Star Wars. Before the cosplay contest, there was a performance by East India Comedy's stand-up comedian Sahil Shah. Despite some of the audience being juveniles, Shah cracked some adult jokes, and used cuss words. After a joke about professor Utonium from The Powepuff Girls "making girls in his basement with a secret recipe", he asked the audience rhetorically if Indian chef Sanjeev Kapoor shared the recipe on his show. He said he had presented the same joke in Delhi, but people did not get it, hinting about the sex ratio. He later added "it was because I said in English", a comment towards Delhi's literacy rate. However, Shah told the Bangalore audience in Hindi. Some other jokes stereotyped certain ethnic groups, and classed of the Indian society, discussing the cussing habits of people in Delhi and comparing it with that of Mumbai. He also made fun of US president Donald Trump, saying "the Americans voted for an orange alien".After Shah's performance, the cosplay contest started, with about 280 people registering for the competition in five categories including comics/graphic novels, movies/television shows, gaming, anime/manga and science fiction/fantasy. The winner of cosplay competition is to represent Bangalore in the upcoming National Indian Championships of Cosplay, along with ₹50 thousand (about €650) prize money. Cosplayers dressed up like Spider-Man, Deadpool, Elektra, Iron Man, Bruce Banner, Black Panther and Loki from Marvel Comics; Katana, Batman, Robin, Wonder Woman, Harley Quinn, Scarecrow, Bane and Joker from DC Comics; Harry Potter, Hermione Granger and Luna Lovegood from JK Rowling's Harry Potter series; Mad Hatter and Red Queen from Alice in Wonderland; Sadness from Pixar's Inside Out; Blastoise - a Pokémon; Calvin and Hobbes; Naruto, Sasuke Uchiha, and Kakashi Hatake from Naruto manga; Vegeta and Gohan from Dragon Ball Z anime; Sherlock Holmes from the TV series adaptation; V from 2005 movie V for Vendetta, Maleficent, a character from Sleeping Beauty; and more.The event finished at 8 PM.Wikinews attended the Rose City ComiCon comic-book convention in Tyler, Texas on Saturday. The event was held at the Lonestar Event Center and ran through Sunday evening.Actor Kevin McNally, most notably recognizable for his role in the Pirates of the Caribbean franchise, spoke at the event. Spectators offered up various questions, including: 'If you attended Hogwarts Academy, to which house would you belong?' and 'Which is your favorite Doctor Who era?' Australian actor Vernon Wells, who appeared in such notable films as Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior, Weird Science, and Commando was also present to chat with visitors and sign autographs. Many attendees were present in various costumes, a practice often referred to as 'cosplay'. Noted cosplayer Knightmage was present, offering signed prints depicting him in various character costumes. He offered attendees the opportunity to voluntarily donate to the Make-A-Wish Foundation.Comic collector Kevin Dutton was on hand, offering for sale his collection of 28,000 comic books. A broad array of 'geek-related' items were also available including: custom Lego mini figures, specialty knives, Pokémon merchandise, fantasy game merchandise and more. A caricature artist was also present, selling custom drawn caricatures of attendees.Wikinews attended the Texas Haunters Convention on the last weekend of July — July 27–28 — in Mesquite, Texas. The event was held at the Mesquite Convention Center and spanned roughly 35,000 square feet of exhibit and classroom space. Halloween-themed, the event was focused on equipment, techniques, props and costumes used in haunted attractions and home haunts. A children's costume contest was held each day, with an array of characters and monsters featured.An array of classes were on offer, one of which allowed attendees to make a faux shrunken head. In a separate class, instructors taught attendees how to build a 'bubbler' prop, as might be displayed in a spooky laboratory scene.  Other classes included:Stunts and StiltsCircular HauntingFoam Fright GunsFacade Planning and BuildingYouTube personality Mr. CreepyPasta was on hand and did a reading of scary stories. Belly dancing troupe Tribal Evolution performed on Saturday and again that evening at the adults-only Costume Ball.Local actor and producer Joshua Winch was on hand offering DVD's of his films and promo photos and posters. Winch told Wikinews he began acting in theater 20 years ago and also worked on several film projects as a Production Assistant. Ultimately, he began producing film projects writers would present to him in 2004. Winch said he has produced a great deal of horror-comedy films, but grew tired of reading reviews that his films weren't horror because they had comedic elements. He then approached a director and said, "I want you to make a pure horror movie." The result was his recent film, Fall of Grace. Winch said the film has been screened at 14 film festivals and he was named Best Actor at one of those events.   More than 70 vendors were present at the event, coming from various parts of the U.S., including California and Florida. A mobile escape room was onsite and allowed playthroughs for VIP attendees.The Internet group Project Chanology today held protests critical of the Church of Scientology. The protests marked what would have been the 49th birthday of Lisa McPherson, who is claimed to be a victim of the Church of Scientology's practices. Lisa died in 1995 during a running of what Scientologists refer to as an Introspection Rundown, a procedure intended to help Church members deal with a psychotic or deeply traumatic event. Protests were planned throughout the day in 14 countries and over 50 different cities. The estimation of total protesters world wide for Feb. 10, 2008 is 9,250 people.Wikinews had correspondents at a number of protest locations to report on the events. This article was updated throughout the day with reports from around the globe.Singing group At Last was recently a finalist in America's Got Talent, covering songs like "Let's Stay Together" and "Ain't No Sunshine". Talent was a NBC television series search for America's next big talent, featuring singers, dancers, magicians, comedians and other talents of all ages. The series was hosted by Regis Philbin, and judged by former tabloid editor Piers Morgan, singer Brandy, and actor/singer David Hasselhoff.They talked to Wikinews about their group's performances and the America's Got Talent experience.Irish American dance and fiddle band Celtic Spring was recently a finalist in America's Got Talent. Talent was a NBC television series search for America's next big talent, featuring singers, dancers, magicians, comedians and other talents of all ages. The series was hosted by Regis Philbin, and judged by former tabloid editor Piers Morgan, singer Brandy, and actor/singer David Hasselhoff.The mother of the family, Mary McCauley Wood, talked to Wikinews about their group's performances and the America's Got Talent experience.0 A.D. is a historical, open source, strategy game, published by Wildfire Games. It focuses on the period between 500BC and 500AD. The game will be released in two parts: the first covering the pre-AD period, and the second running to 500AD. With development well underway, Wikinews interviewed the development team.Aviv Sharon, a 24-year-old Israeli student responsible for the project's PR, compiled the below Q&A, which the full team approved prior to publication.Wikinews held an exclusive interview with author and filmmaker John Gaspard. His films Resident Alien, Beyond Bob and Grown Men, besides opening to positive critical response, were all made on very low budgets; costing around US$30,000. He says this is because "I despise the process of trying to raise money to finance movies."He has also written several books on filmmaking, most notably Digital Filmmaking 101. He says that it was "originally.....a series of notes to ourselves, to remind us of the steps we took to make a feature for very little money. We later expanded those notes into a complete book to provide beginning filmmakers with the tools they would need to make a feature for what most Hollywood films spend on coffee and rolls."Gaspard has written two other books as well. Fast, Cheap and Under Control: Lessons Learned From the Greatest Low-Budget Movie of All Time features interviews with some of the world's most well known low budget filmmakers, including B-movie king Roger Corman and actor-turned-director Tom Noonan. Fast, Cheap and Written that Way: Top Screenwriters on Writing for Low-Budget Movies features interviews with successful screenwriters who have written for low budget films.Wikinews held an exclusive interview with American author and filmmaker Peter John Ross. The head of Sonnyboo Productions, an independent film studio based in Columbus, Ohio, he has made numerous short films as well as co-directed a feature, the World War II B-movie Horrors of War. He has also written a book on filmmaking, Tales from the Front Line of Indie Filmmaking. He says that it "combines helpful articles for beginning filmmakers with narrative tales based on my experiences raising money for features and the crazy personalities that invade the world of microbudget filmmaking."When asked why he makes movies, Ross replied, "There is no greater thrill than sitting in a room full of strangers watching the stories unfold with flickering pictures and sound. I live for the moments when I can sit there and watch the movies with people I don't know and really feel how they react to what I wrote or directed or edited."Wikinews contributor Patrick Gillett recently interviewed Brenton Clutterbuck about his project on Discordianism."I'd like to add something to the knowledge base of what we know about Discordianism," says Clutterbuck. "I want to work on a piece that follows a travel narrative structure." In 2009, Clutterbuck was interviewed — by the same contributor — in his capacity as an election candidate.Similar works include Voices of Chaos by Timothy Bowen.Alfred Hsing, a US martial artist with Chinese origins, besides having a long history of martial arts training in various styles, such as traditional kung fu, tae kwon do and karate, considers wushu – an athletic sport based on Chinese martial arts – as a form of art that pushes one's physical limits and stimulates the mind at the same time. After having won the gold medal at the 10th World Wushu Championships, he became international movie star Jet Li's personal assistant and went on to do stunts, action choreography, and land roles in movies.Hungarian Wikinews contributor Teemeah has interviewed Alfred Hsing about his views on martial arts, life and Wikipedia.Following the launch of the Doritos Coolpedia website on September 28, and voting on October 14, this website has now become a complex portal with textures, pictures, and multimedia after adding video candidate function. As Coolpedia originally followed Wikipedia's example of Internet-relay contribution, Wikinews Reporter Rico Shen interviewed Claire Lin (Assistant Media Manager of Marketing Department, Pepsico Foods Taiwan) about the origins and objectives of Coolpedia.The James Bond film series is one of the most popular and successful, having grossed over US$4 billion worldwide. The suave, sophisticated secret agent has secured his place in popular culture as the definitive action hero that has appeared in twenty-three films between 1954 and 2006.Daniel Craig was announced as the seventh actor to portray 007 in late 2005, making his debut in the 2006 smash hit Casino Royale. While fans await Craig's second outing in Quantum of Solace, due later this year, they have been able to watch Shamelady, a fan film made by the French film production company Constellation Studios.Shamelady is a tribute to Ian Fleming, the author of the James Bond novels on which many of the films are based, and EON Productions, the makers of the official 007 films. The film was first released in 2007 and runs just under an hour long. It can be downloaded from Constellation's website or viewed on YouTube.Legally, the filmmakers cannot profit from Shamelady, but they didn't make it for the money, rather the thrill of creating an original Bond film. The plot is fairly simple, and reminiscent of Casino Royale. Bond is sent to a casino to nab a vicious crime lord, but gets betrayed by a fellow agent in the process. Viewer reaction to the film was positive for the most part, and Constellation Studios has now planned a sequel to Shamelady, which director Eric Saussine speaks of in the interview below.Kivimetsän Druidi‏ is a Finnish female-fronted band formed in 2002 whose music is a fusion of symphonic, fantasy and folk metal, which the band's website dubs 'Rock 'N' Troll'.Brothers Joni and Antti Koskinen formed the band in Kouvola with Joni playing guitar and growling while Antti played keyboard and sings backing vocals. They joined up with a female lead vocalist, lead and bass guitarists and a drummer. The brothers write the songs between them, with Antti doing the main body and Joni writing the lyrics.Together the band recorded and released three demos and an EP, all released independently, across 2002-6. Across October and November 2007 they gained international attention by supporting well-known Finnish folk metal band Korpiklaani across a large European tour.On June 6 this year Kivimetsän Druidi‏ was announced to have been signed to Century Media Records in a global deal. The band have now entered Noice Camp studio in Turku to record their debut, with a planned release date in October. This summer the only performances will be at a handful of festivals while the band works on their new album, but after that is released a major tour will follow to support it. The band say they are "extremely pleased" with the deal.Wikinews was able to discuss these events and what the future holds for the band with the Koskinen brothers and female vocalist Leeni-Maria Hovila, who also writes the vocal melodies in an exclusive interview, which is published below for the first time.Across Easter weekend Wellington, New Zealand was host to Rock2Wgtn, an international two-day hard rock festival. Large crowds showed up at Westpac Stadium to see the various acts. The world has never seen an event of this kind before, and New Zealand has never had any kind of major rock festival or multi-day music festival.Day one featured three theatrical acts. Finnish band Lordi, known for their monster costumes, opened the night. They were followed by the US shock rocker Alice Cooper, whose themed set included the horror theatrics regularly associated with him and a hanging stunt he recently restarted after a gallows collapse nearly killed him two decades ago. The night was headlined by the distinctively costumed band KISS, complete with their famed black-and-white makeup.The first major act on the stage on day two was the American hard rock/glam metal band Poison. After Poison, British act Whitesnake took to the stage and performed their set to the crowd. British-born American rocker Ozzy Osbourne, who, as well as a solo career, fronts the world-famous Black Sabbath, was the second night's headline act.The festival's entertainment did not stop at the six main acts. There was also support performances from three New Zealand bands - The Symphony of Screams, The Valves and Sonic Altar. Their sets were accompanied by a special effects package from award-winning studio Weta Workshops, who are known for their work on movies such as The Lord of the Rings film trilogy. This came in the form of 'Drusila the Dragon', which rose up to a height of six foot and wigspan and moved for the audience, shining lasers from its eyes and breathing red smoke. Flame Fire Productions were hired to put on a fire show featuring several dancers alongside the performers. Also performing were six local guitarists and a group of 'zombie' cheerleaders.Wikinews was able to secure two exclusive interviews with those responsible behind the scenes for putting on such a show. Weta Workshop's Philip Sharpe, who supervised the project and Milly Bea, current manageress of Flame Fire Productions, discussed their roles. In the first installment, Milly Bea tells us about "a definite highlight" for Flame and lets us know everything from her thoughts on Gene Simmons's tongue to just how much kerosene it takes to put on a fire show at a rock fest.Uwe Flade is a music video director from Germany. He has worked with numerous artists, including Depeche Mode, Rammstein, Apocalyptica, In Extremo, Nickelback, Franz Ferdinand and Tarja Turunen. Wikinews conducted an exclusive email interview with him, available below.Wikinews held an exclusive interview with Jeremy Hanke, editor of MicroFilmmaker Magazine. The magazine, which is free to read online, was started as a resource for the low budget moviemaker and features book, independent film, equipment and software reviews as well as articles on film distribution, special effects and lighting.He says that one of the goals of the magazine is to "connect low-budget filmmakers via a feeling of community, as many.....often compete so viciously against one another in film festivals for coveted "shots" with Hollywood, that they can quickly forget their similarities."When asked if films made on a shoestring budget can really compete with those made for millions of dollars, he replied, "no…yes…and absolutely.  Allow me to explain." And so he does in the interview below.Just days away from Halloween, Wikinews interviewed Kristian Hanson, producer-director of independent slasher film Sledge. The film has been a recent source of discussion in horror fan circles, primarily due to its production budget of only US$800. Sledge is Hanson's fourth film to direct, according to Internet Movie Database.Albuquerque, New Mexico —Online entertainment is a booming market, and plenty of players are making their play; back in March of this year The Walt Disney Company bought the multi-channel network Maker Studios. What is web entertainment, and the arts therein? And, who are the people venturing into this field? Wikinews interviewed Mario Lucero and Isabel Ruiz, the founders of Heaven Sent Gaming, a small entertainment team. This group has been responsible for several publications, within several different media formats; one successful example was aywv, a gaming news website, which was #1 in Gaming on YouTube in 2009, from September to November; Heaven Sent Gaming was also the subject of a referential book, released in 2014, entitled Internet Legends - Heaven Sent Gaming.Pro-wrestling, a sport derived from Greco-Roman freestyle wrestling, is often connected with the idea of sports-entertainment. Popularized by  Japanese and American federations (e.g. World Wrestling Entertainment, New Japan Pro Wrestling, etc.) the ongoing events and news are often discussed on the Internet. As such, television programs and other mass media focused on pro-wrestling are commonplace in Japan, America, and Europe.In Taiwan, fans do not simply watch the TV shows and discuss them via the Internet, but some of them participate in the sport of wrestling through communities from the Internet or colleges. Although a Taiwanese wrestler recently won a world-class pro-wrestling title, due to policies that focused only on promoting key athletic sports like baseball, billiards, basketball, and taekwondo (i.e. those with more possibilities to win a gold medal in the Asian Games or Olympics), governmental officials lost a great opportunity to promote sports like wrestling, which has many potential participants.What's the vision of wrestling in Taiwan? How did the communities drive TV spectators and wrestling fans and government officials pay more attention in wrestling? Is wrestling a future key sport in Taiwan? Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen visited the "2008 IWL Spring Festival", organised by a fan community and interviewed "Mr. Orange", well-known commentator of WWE TV shows broadcasted by VideoLand Max TV in Taiwan, to prospect the future of wrestling.Wikinews interviewed one of the owners of a New York City bar about a popular new politically-themed cocktail drink  called Santorum. The beverage was inspired by the santorum neologism coined in advice columnist Dan Savage's column Savage Love in response to comments made by former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum about homosexuality; Savage's readers voted to define santorum as: "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex."Wikinews held an exclusive e-mail interview with James Bruno, author of the political thrillers CHASM and Permanent Interests. Bruno, a former diplomat with the U.S. Department of State, military intelligence officer and journalist, retired early to take up writing. He says that because of his experiences, his books "possess an authenticity rarely matched in the political thriller genre."When asked about what inspires him to write he replied, "During twenty-five years of working on national security in the federal government, I regularly faced situations which made me say, 'Fiction can't rival this.'"Bruno holds M.A. degrees from the U.S. Naval War College and Columbia University as well as a B.A. from George Washington University.His books are currently available on Amazon.com and Lulu.com.Wikinews held an exclusive interview with Jeremy Robinson, the bestselling American author from Massachusetts who wrote the thrillers The Didymus Contingency, Raising the Past and Antarktos Rising.Before deciding to take up the writing of fiction, Robinson was an artist and moviemaker. He says of his years before getting published, "I lived well under the poverty line.....so I could write."Although his first book, The Didymus Contingency, was self-published, the following two were released through a small press. Recently, he signed a three book deal with St. Martin's Press, a major publisher. He said that he was "pretty excited" about this.Robinson is currently at work on two other novels.Across Easter weekend Wellington, New Zealand was host to Rock2Wgtn, an international two-day hard rock festival. Large crowds showed up at Westpac Stadium to see the various acts. The world has never seen an event of this kind before.Day one featured three theatrical acts. Finnish band Lordi, known for their monster costumes, opened the night. They were followed by the US shock rocker Alice Cooper, whose themed set included the horror theatrics regularly associated with him and a hanging stunt he recently restarted after a gallows collapse nearly killed him two decades ago. The night was headlined by the distinctively costumed band KISS, complete with their famed black-and-white makeup.The first major act on the stage on day two was the American hard rock/glam metal band Poison. After Poison, British act Whitesnake took to the stage and performed their set to the crowd. British-born American rocker Ozzy Osbourne, who, as well as a solo career, fronts the world-famous Black Sabbath, was the second night's headline act.The festival's entertainment did not stop at the six main acts. There was also support performances from three New Zealand bands - The Symphony of Screams, The Valves and Sonic Altar. Their sets were accompanied by a special effects package from award-winning studio Weta Workshops, who are known for their work on movies such as The Lord of the Rings film trilogy. This came in the form of 'Drusila the Dragon', which rose up to a height of six foot and wigspan and moved for the audience, shining lasers from its eyes and breathing red smoke. Flame Fire Productions were hired to put on a fire show featuring several dancers alongside the performers. Also performing were six local guitarists and a group of 'zombie' cheerleaders.Despite the crowds that flocked to the event, however, it has recently become apparent that financial trouble has hit the festival. Although figures remain to be confirmed, an estimated NZ$750,000 has been lost.Wikinews secured an exclusive interview with Phil Sprey of Capital C Concerts, who organised the festival. The entire interview is now available below.Wikinews interviewed Australian painter Pricasso on his unique artwork created using his penis, and how his art relates to freedom of expression and issues of censorship. He is to be featured at the upcoming adult entertainment event Sexpo Australia in Melbourne this November 5 to November 8.October is National Magic Month in the United States. Wikinews spoke with William Evans, president of the International Brotherhood of Magicians, about the current state of magic and what its future looks like in the world of entertainment.((Wikinews))  For how long have you been involved in performing/studying magic?  William Evans: Over 50 years.  I am 61 now so I really started when I was about 10 years old even though I had seen and worked with some basic tricks a few years earlier.  I remember going into Hollywood Magic and wanting that big red box with the dragons on it and I didn't even know what it did.  The magician behind the counter was wise enough not to sell it to me, but instead sold me two books which I still own today — "Scarne on Card Tricks" and "Scarne on Magic Tricks".  That started me out on books and I have amassed quite a few since then.  My major influences on performance are Eugene Burger and Michael Skinner.((WN))  October is National Magic Month in the US. Do you think magic is alive as a viable form of entertainment today?  WE: Absolutely.  There are more magicians working today than ever before.  There will always be an audience for good magicians doing good magic.((WN))  Has the internet helped or hurt magic?  WE: Both.  I think it has helped draw younger people to magic as a hobby, but I think it has hurt the ability of young magicians to think because so many rely on the internet for everything and they aren't reading the books.  We have to have knowledge of the history of magic and what has been done before.  Moreover, seeing someone perform on the internet takes away the use of our senses, originality and imagination that reading and thinking about magic can produce.  Anyone can become a monkey; it takes serious study to become a magician.((WN))  Do you travel much in your current role?  WE: Yes, I am traveling quite a bit.  After I was inducted as International President in Phoenix in July, I have been to the Jeff McBride Experience in Eureka Springs, Arkansas, Magic Live in Las Vegas, The Midwest Magic Jubilee in St. Louis, the TAOM in Dallas, the British Ring Convention in Buxton, England and the Magic Circle in London.  I am going to Las Vegas and Los Angeles next month, Italy in November, back to Las Vegas in December, Mexico in January, Magi-Fest in February, the Winter Carnival of Magic in Tennessee in March, Eureka Springs Cavalcade of Magic in March, and the FFFF in April.  That's as of now.Sporting games are more popular with younger gamers and sporting people with a conjunction from two industries, between sporting and gaming. Although games from the NBA series are not the official games of the World Cyber Games, but with fashions of the NBA, and PC gaming population having a stable scale, the NBA game series attracted not only basketball and game fans but also sporting and gaming media world-wide, and its market was progressively expanded from America and Europe to Asia and other countries.With those issues in mind, Wikinews Reporter Rico Shen briefly interviewed Event Director of NBA Asia Corporation Ritchie Lai about the sports gaming market developments at the NBA 2K8 Asia Championship Taiwan Qualifier.Many rhythm gamers are anticipating the release of "Taiko no Tatsujin 11: Asian Version", the Namco Bandai Games Inc. (NBGI) beta version of which was recently showcased at the 2008 Taipei Game Show.In fact, several managers from amusement stores in Taiwan frequently imported large quantities of arcade games, including rhythm games. Eventually, some slot machine developers modified codes from several game consoles like the Wii, PlayStation 2 (PS2), and Sega Saturn to fulfill needs for amusement arcades, but they risked hardware failure and copyright infringement.But before those modifications happened in Taiwan, many rhythm games just used songs from other arcade machines due to copyright issues from enrolled songs.The upcoming game will benefit Mandarin-language gamers after its release, but it may hide some secrets behind the development of "Taiko no Tatsujin 11: Asian Version". Wikinews reporter Rico Shen recently interviewed the producer of "Taiko no Tatsujin" Tatsuhisa Yabushita to talk about some of the background of this upcoming game and its series.Kirk Shepherd is a professional darts player from the United Kingdom. Kirk began playing competitively at 13 for his local pub, and was soon crowned Boys Champion at the Winmau World Masters in 2003. Shepherd was voted Young Player of the Year by the British Darts Organisation in 2005 and 2006.Shepherd is perhaps best known for his performance at the 2008 PDC World Darts Championship. Forced to qualify for the televised tournament, he then proceeded to knock out a number of well-known players live on television, including Terry Jenkins, Wayne Mardle and former finalist Peter Manley. He ultimately went on to come second in the tournament, becoming the youngest ever finalist, and losing out to John Part in the final.He has also previously managed to defeat the then world number one, Gary Anderson. Due to his performance at the world championship he will play in this year's Grand Slam of Darts next month. Ahead of that appearance Wikinews was able to conduct an interview with Kirk, which is now available below:Dominic McDevitt-Parks, a prolific contributor to Wikipedia and a graduate student in history and archives management, agreed to answer a few questions about his new role as "Wikipedian in Residence" at the US National Archives and Records Administration."Wikipedians in Residence" are volunteers placed with institutions, such as museums and libraries, to facilitate use of those institutions' resources on Wikipedia.According to a Pew Internet report, 42 percent of Americans use Wikipedia as an online source of information. The online, collaborative encyclopedia boasts more than 3.5 million articles in English and versions in over 250 languages. Given the website's vast readership, the Archivist of the United States has proclaimed himself "a big fan of Wikipedia" and emphasizes the need for the National Archives to work with the project. The Archives posted the internship listing in March, expressing its desire for an employee who "will work as a community coordinator and strengthen the relationship between the Archives and the Wikipedian community through a range of activities".McDevitt-Parks, who describes himself as a "history buff, a word nerd, a news junkie and an occasional pedant," is a 24-year-old graduate student at Simmons College in Boston. On Wikipedia, he has contributed for more than seven years under the username "Dominic", his work focusing mostly on Latin American history.He began his work at the Archives in late May, and since then he has undertaken numerous projects, including uploading onto Wikipedia 200 photos taken by Ansel Adams for the National Park Service. Although those photos have always remained in the public domain, accessing their high-definition versions could be problematic. Researchers who wanted to view the files had to visit the Archives facilities in College Park, Maryland.McDevitt-Parks is also preparing a "Today's Document challenge" on Wikipedia, where works featured as "Today's Document" on the Archives' website are also the main focus of newly written or expanded encyclopedia articles displayed on Wikipedia's home page. The first — and so far only — winner of the challenge was the Wikipedia article "Desegregation in the United States Marine Corps", which incorporated an Archives-held photo of the first African-American recruit to the US Marine Corps. Before the challenge, according to McDevitt-Parks, "a thorough history of desegregation in the U.S. Marines didn't exist in Wikipedia's knowledge ecosystem. The topic wasn't totally ignored, but simply split among related entries; a devoted, focused article never existed solely in its own right."The "Wikipedian in Residence" position falls within the Archives' social media staff within the Open Government division of Information Services, since the institution's goal is to distribute as much content to the widest audience possible. The internship is 40 hours per week from mid-May to late August.Besides becoming a political stomping ground for the Pan-Green and Pan-Blue coalitions, there are other changes from past years of Taipei Audio Video Fair (TAVF). With those changes in mind, Wikinews reporter Rico Shen interviewed You-peng Wang, chairman of the Taipei Electrical Commercial Association (TECA), the main organizer of TAVF, about the 60th year anniversary of TECA and the changes to the show.Eight months after a catastrophic earthquake, Wikinews has investigated the devastation caused in February and the reconstruction of Pichilemu, Chile. The February 27 earthquake and a subsequent tsunami completely destroyed Pichilemu's most coastal street and its oldest villages. Wikinews has also had access to the original design plans of the new kiosks in Pichilemu, and conducted an interview with merchant Alejandro Mella, known locally as the King of the Cochayuyo ("El Rey del Cochayuyo"), who lost his kiosk after the earthquake.Pichilemu is a coastal city in the O'Higgins Region of Chile, known as one of the "best surfing spots" in South America. Its current Mayor is Roberto Córdova Carreño, who was elected internally by the Councillors of the city in September 2009, after several political controversies that ended with three Mayors being displaced.The territory of Pichilemu has a surface of 7,491 square kilometers, and comprises at least 24 villages, such as Ciruelos, Rodeíllo and Espinillo (the latter two also severely damaged by the March 11 earthquake). Pichilemu is the most popular beach in O'Higgins Region, and many tourists visit it every summer.Wikinews visited 'Doc Wilkes House of Horrors' located in Longview, Texas recently for a private tour. Co-owner Laura Wilkes led the tour and introduced a select number of actors featured in the haunt. The attraction offers a broad array of elaborate sets and rooms, professionally designed to scare attendees. A broad host of costumed actors finish out the horror-related theme for customers.  Wilkes said the attraction's physical design is meant to, "...play on peoples' natural fears--the dark, narrow passageways, those types of things." Attendees are greeted by the presence of an antique hearse near the main entrance and the queue area is designed to present a spooky atmosphere with an array or arcane relics. The haunt's namesake and co-owner, Eugene 'Doc' Wilkes is heavily involved in the attraction's operations. Wilkes has a lengthy performing history, having been a magician and western style actor for many years. The cast of ghouls includes a human doll, several creepy clowns and other scary attractions. Elaborate lighting and sound effects also heighten the sensory experience. The haunt is open Friday and Saturday evenings through October, with one Thursday special 'Blackout Night' planned for October 22. This year marks the attraction's 13th consecutive year of operation.On Saturday, Wikinews visited the set of indie comedy film Dead on Set. Using the movie-in-a-movie concept, the film is a comedy about a group of people filming a zombie movie, during which a real zombie virus outbreak occurs. The entire film was shot in the greater Tyler, Texas area.The film was written, directed and produced by Amanda Spangler. An array of make-up artists worked to create the realistic bite and injury marks for actors.When asked how she came up with the idea for the film's script, Spangler said, "We often see the efforts of filmmakers being put to the test when it comes to creating fantasy or horror based movies.  I had always wondered what would happen if their dreamscape became their reality and how they would react. For this film, they're so entwined in what they're doing they can't even tell the difference between real zombies and the fake ones. Considering the hilarity of that concept, I decided to write a comedy on that very subject."Although production for the film has ended, the project must now go though the editing process. Spangler plans to submit the film to Tyler's film festival in mid-May and the film is to screen at Tyler's historic Liberty Theater in late May or early June for cast members and their families. Roughly half of the film was shot in or near a hair salon owned by Coby Archa, who appeared as a contestant on the reality television series Survivor.With many venues reporting sell-out shows, the 68th year of the Edinburgh Festival attracted visitors from around the globe. Wikinews' Brian McNeil roamed the city for the four weeks of the event, capturing the colour, spectacle, and comedy, in photos.American playwright William Gibson has died at the age of 94 in Massachusetts, according to reports. The cause of death was not publicly disclosed, but BBC News says he died in his home.Gibson is likely most famous for the play he wrote in 1957 entitled The Miracle Worker, which was based on the autobiography of the blind and deaf woman, Helen Keller called The Story of My Life. The play, originally written for television, went on Broadway in 1960, where it later won three Tony Awards. It went on to become a movie in 1962 where it also won several Oscars.Gibson wrote 12 plays throughout his career, including Golden Boy, Golda Balcony in 2003, which was about former Israeli prime minister, Golda Meir. It was his last play before his death."The act of writing makes everything possible to me. I've always found the business of writing has helped me to live," said Gibson in an interview with the Associated Press in 2003.Star Trek star and actor William Shatner has sold his kidney stone for charity.It has been announced that the actor sold his kidney stone to the online gambling website, GoldenPalace.com for US$25,000. The money will be donated to Habitat for Humanity, a Christian charity organization that builds houses for the poor."When I was contacted about selling my kidney stone to GoldenPalace.Com for an original price of US$15,000 I turned it down, knowing that my tunics from Star Trek have commanded more than US$100,000," Shatner said. He said that he countered by offering to sell the ring-sized stone for US$25,000.Shatner refused selling the stone at an auction or on television. When Jimmy Kimmel interviewed Shatner, he offered to sell it on his show, an offer that Shatner also refused.Oprah Winfrey has announced that she will retire from her talk show on September 9, 2011, during season 25. Winfrey made the announcement on Friday's broadcast of The Oprah Winfrey Show. Suppressing tears, she explained that careful thought and prayer had gone into her decision. "Twenty-five years feels right in my bones and feels right in my spirit", she told her audience.The Oprah Winfrey Show was first televised on September 8, 1986. For the first ten years she competed with other talk shows by discussing relationships and parallel subjects. In the late 1990s her show changed focus to incorporate stories relating to spirituality and human interest.Winfrey has had lasting effects on the city of Chicago, Illinois. The surrounding neighborhood of Harpo Productions was rundown prior to the company's success. Chicago residents have expressed concern over what would occur if Winfrey were to leave. According to the Associated Press, citizens view The Oprah Winfrey Show as, "a reminder of what has been, and what could be lost."News sources speculate that Winfrey will air a replacement on the Oprah Winfrey Network in 2011.The 21st Annual Wings Over Houston Airshow, featuring the Snowbirds will open October 8-9th at Ellington Field. Gates will be open Saturday from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sunday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. for static displays. Aerial performances begin at about 10 a.m., though times are subject to change.Aerial performances are often visible from two or three miles away, and simulated weapons fire can be heard from even farther. The performances scheduled include flybys of an F-117 Nighthawk stealth fighter, B1-B Lancer bomber, and A-10 Warthog tank-killer, several aerobatics performances, and ground-based demonstrations of various aircraft.General admission at the gate is $20 for adults, $5 for children 6-11. Children under 6 are free.The winner of the third series of New Zealand Idol was announced by host, Dominic Bowden during a live two hour special at a packed Saint James thearte and the winner was Matt Saunoa from Levin, 21-years-old, who cried when the announcement was made.Matt beat other finalist, Indira Moala from North Shore, Auckland, who is also 21-years-old.Matt Saunoa receives more prizes than the other two idols before him, including NZ$50,000 cash, a Daihatsu Terios car and a recording contract which includes a guaranteed single release.Matt said: "I just want to thank everyone so much. I didn't think I would make it past the first round and I won the competition." Matt was lucky to make it past the first round one of the judges, Frankie Stevens, only allowed Matt to progress on in the competition after Matt assured Stevens that he would win the competition. He also didn't make it past the first round in the first season of NZ Idol.Before the announcement Indira said: "I had no idea I'd make it this far. You have no idea how excited I am. Whatever happens tonight I'm going to rock it out." And then Matt said: "If you make me New Zealand Idol I will work my ass off to make sure there are singles and albums out there that do it justice," referring to past winners, Ben Lummis and Rosita Vai who both had no commercial success.Centrebet, online betting service, said that their odds on Matt were $1.90 while Indira's were at $1.80, the first time Matt hadn't been favoured since September 18.The Prime Minister of New Zealand, Helen Clark, made an appearance and applauded the success of the two for getting this far in the competition. And the rest of the final ten also made a brief appearance.TVNZ, the broadcasters of NZ Idol, are yet to confirm a fourth NZ Idol even though the ratings were excellent. TVNZ will be speaking to South Pacific Pictures of the future of NZ Idol.The 2006 New Zealand Music Awards, or Tuis, were announced yesterday night at Auckland.Campbell Smith, organiser, said it has been encouraging to "see the Tuis spread among a wide group of artists, rather than being dominated by one or two. It shows the New Zealand music scene is vibrant, diverse and growing."The album of year was won by Bic Runga for her album, Birds. She beat other musicians including Dave Dobbyn and Don McGlashan.Pluto with their single Long White Cross, won the single of the year. This beat other singles by Bic Runga, Goldenhorse, Mt Raskil Preservations Society featuring Hollie Smith, and The Feelers.Elemeno P won the best group. They beat other bands, Bleeders and Fly My Pretties.Dave Dobbyn was the best male solo artist, taking it out over Che Fu and Don McGlashan.Bic Runga was the best female solo artist beating Aaradhna and Anika Moa.Bleeders were announced as the breakthrough artist of the year beating Aaradhna and Frontline.The best music video was awarded to Mark Williams for the music video of Fat Freddy's Drop; Wandering Eye.Bleeders won best rock album for their album, As Sweet As Sin, beating Blindspott and Elemeno P.The best urban/hip hop album was awarded to Borrowed Time by Frontline. This album beat Fresh Men by Nesian Mystik and Kaleidoscope by Opensouls.The best dance/electronica album was Chaos By Design by Concord Dawn. Concord Dawn beat other groups Recloose and Sola Rose to win the prize.The Return of Fly My Pretties by Fly My Pretties won the best Aotearoa roots album.Te Reotakiwas Dunn by Te Reotakiwa Dunn won the best Maori album by beating Mahara Tocker with their album Hurricane's Eye and Rodger Cunningham with Toto.Juliagrace won the best gospel/Christian album.Spirit of the Land by Tower Voices of New Zealand won the best classical album.Fat Freddy's Drop was awarded with the people's choice award, beating Pluto, Frontline, Elemeno P, Bic Runga and Goodnight Nurse.The Warehouse highest selling New Zealand album was awarded to Fat Freddy's Drop, Based on a True Story.All I Ask by Rosita Vai won the highest selling NZ single.The NZ on Air radio airplay record of the year was won by The Feelers for their record, Stand Up.Visual Arts Brampton has announced the winners of its Second Annual Snail Mail World Postcard Art Show. Currently on display in the Fridge Front Gallery in Shoppers World, The Snail Mail Show features well over 350 entries from 14 countries around the world. This is up from the previous year's approximately 300 from 6 countries.Shown in the exhibit is original works from Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Yugoslavia.Juror Alicia Mitchell BA viewed the show on August 18 to make her selections from the entries received.Surprisingly, in the process of identifying her choices for each award, Mitcell ended up awarding two sets of relatives. Sarah Baptist won the Juror's Choice Award for Purple, while Ann Baptist won Best Photography for Tires. Nicholas Moreau won Best Snail Art for Albert Einsnail, while his mother Janice Moreau won for Best Use of Medium for Bird Days of Summer.Best of Theme (Remember) went to Beek's Remembrance of My Father. Brampton Guardian Arts editor Tina Depko awarded the Media Award to child entrant Jessica Taylor's Cat love. Toni DiSano of Ballwin, Montana won Best Fabric Art/Sculpture/Installation for her fabric art piece "Vortex".Honourable mentions this year were:Judith Bush's photograph/mixed media "Los Baños & Surrounds" or "Altered Landscape/Last Vestiges" (Mountain View, California, USA)Betty Jean Evans' watercolour "Snowy Afternoon" (Brampton, Ontario, Canada)Julie Fina's painting "Mona + Jeanne" (Brampton, Ontario, Canada)Aaron Goulborn's cartoon "The Classics play a classic" (Brampton, Ontario, Canada)Lee's "Brampton" (Brampton, Ontario, Canada)Paulina Su's scratchboard "Type of Wading Bird" (Brampton, Ontario, Canada)Gina Turner's vector art "Who are you looking at?" (Pefferlaw, Ontario, Canada)A complete list is available on The Snail Mail Show's website.A winning British EuroMillions lottery ticket worth £113,019,926 (US$180,413,709, €129,421,204) has been claimed. The prize value breaks the previous record for the largest amount of money won in a lottery in the United Kingdom. According to BBC News Online, it is also believed that this is the largest lottery prize ever given to a solitary ticket holder in the country. The winner(s) is/are currently remaining unidentified.A spokesperson for the Camelot Group, the operator of the lottery in the United Kingdom, proclaimed: "There is one British winner and it's the biggest jackpot win ever. This is fantastic news — we're absolutely delighted to have such a massive UK win. It is the biggest lottery jackpot prize ever paid out to an individual in this country. We have plenty of champagne on ice and are looking forward to welcoming the lucky ticketholder to the National Lottery millionaires' club."From 1845 - 1915 BST (1745 - 1815 UTC), some Internet lottery sales were unable to be counted due to technical problems with several banks and the system of Camelot, according to a spokeswoman for the Camelot Group. She said that the situation had been "completely out of our hands".The results of the lottery draw were 46, 35, 39, 30 and 09, with the two lucky stars being revealed to be 06 and 08. The total amount of this particular win was slightly less than the largest ever win in the EuroMillions draw of £113,229,891 (US$180,735,283, €129,652,278). That jackpot was claimed by a solitary recipient in Spain in May 2009.A winning British EuroMillions lottery ticket, worth approximately £56,008,113 (US$87,893,534, €64,565,882), has been claimed. The value of the prize breaks the record for the largest amount of money won in a lottery in the United Kingdom. The previous record, which was approximately £45 million (US$70.5 million, €52 million), was claimed in November 2009. That amount was given to both of the two lottery ticket winners of the draw, both of which happened to live in the United Kingdom.The £56 million win, which occurred as a result of the EuroMillions lottery draw on Friday, was actually a share of the jackpot total of approximately £113 million (US$177 million, €130 million). The prize was shared between the UK winner and another winning ticket holder in Spain. At present, neither of the two winners have been publicly identified. A spokesperson for the Camelot Group, who runs the EuroMillions lottery in the United Kingdom, said: "We have got the champagne ready and we're just waiting for the lucky winner to come forward. It's the biggest win that we have ever had in this country and whoever it is, wherever they are, their life is about to change dramatically. Subject to validation, the prize could be paid out when the banks open on Monday."The EuroMillions lottery draw takes place in nine European countries including the United Kingdom, France, Spain, Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Luxembourg, Portugal and Switzerland. The biggest ever prize given out in the EuroMillions draw overall was approximately £113.2 million (US$177.7 million, €130.5 million). The prize was given to a solitary winner in Spain in May 2009.WMAQ-TV NBC 5 Chicago announced yesterday that reporter Amy Jacobson was leaving her job after being videotaped in a bikini with her two sons at the home of Craig Stebic. Jacobson has been covering the story of Stebic's wife Lisa, who has been missing since April 30. Jacobson says that she took her children on a social visit on her day off, following an invitation from Stebic's family.Jacobson has reported at WMAQ for the last ten years. The video of her at Craig Stebic's home was either taken by or given to CBS 2 WBBM-TV Chicago, the CBS affiliate. The entire six minute video of Jacobson is available at cbs2chicago.com. The WMAQ President and General Manager Larry Wert stated "Amy has been one of our most valued reporters for over ten years The decision to part ways has been a difficult one. We wish her the very best."Speaking with WGN Radio on Wednesday morning, Jacobson described WBBM-TV's releasing of the video a "cheap shot". She told Spike O'Dell that she is sickened by the entire ordeal and may pursue legal action against the people who took the video of her at Craig Stebic's house. Jacobson said her attorney told her it is illegal to videotape people on private property and she said she "is looking at all of her legal options." A press release was sent to the WMAQ-TV Newsroom staff on July 10, 2007.Jacobson came to WMAQ-TV in 1996 from Fox affiliate WJBK located in Detroit. Jacobson is a native of Mount Prospect. She began her career at KSAX and also worked in El Paso and Tucson, AZ. She started at WMAQ as a freelance reporter and moved up to general assignment reporter. She and her husband have two children and live on the north side of Chicago.Five paintings, in total valued at almost €100 million. were stolen from the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris overnight on Wednesday. The works were Le pigeon aux petits pois by Pablo Picasso, La Pastorale by Henri Matisse, L'Olivier Près de l'Estaque by Georges Braque, La Femme a l'Eventail by Amedeo Modigliani and Nature Morte aux Chandeliers by Fernand Léger.The museum itself has been closed and cordoned off by police investigating the theft. The thief is believed to have entered the museum by climbing through a window and the museum is investigating how the theft took place despite the presence of guards and a complex security system.Christophe Girard, deputy mayor of Paris with responsibility for culture, told a press conference: "This is a serious crime to the heritage of humanity", adding that the perpetrator or perpetrators were "obviously organised". It is thought that the paintings are too well known to be easily sold and there has been speculation that they will be used as "currency" by criminal gangs, as opposed to having been "stolen for hire" on behalf of a collector. An unnamed source told The Daily Telegraph: "It's an enormous crime, one of the biggest in art history" while the mayor of Paris, Bertrand Delanoe, called the theft "an intolerable attack on Paris's universal cultural heritage" and art historian Tim Marlow commented that the thief obviously "knew what he was taking". The theft was discovered at approximately 7a.m. local time (5a.m. UTC) by museum staff. The Paris prosecutor's office said that a single masked man was captured on CCTV walking away with the works, which had been removed from their frames with care rather than being sliced out. The paintings belong to the museum's permanent collection.Investigators are questioning museum staff after speculation that the perpetrator may have had assistance from somebody on "the inside". The investigation into the thefts is being led by the Brigade de Répression du Banditisme, an elite French police unit.Millions of people celebrated the arrival of the Chinese Year of the Dog throughout the world's time zones.Chinese families spent New Year's Eve cleaning their houses to get rid of bad luck from the past year, before celebrating with reunion dinners.Throughout China and the world's Chinatowns, dragon dancers danced and fireworks went off to mark the arrival of the new year. In the Chinese lunar calendar, the Chinese Year of the Dog ends on February 17, 2007, making it 385 days long, or 13 months. The last time a Chinese year was this long was in 1944.Millions of people celebrated the arrival of the new year as the clock struck midnight on December 31, 2005, throughout the world's time zones.The United Nations health agency the World Health Organization (WHO) has called for a ban on tobacco advertising and promotion in order to protect the world's children. The news release from the WHO came on Friday, one day before the annual World No Tobacco Day held each year on May 31.This year's World No Tobacco Day focuses on highlighting the practices of tobacco companies in their efforts to promote their products to young people. According to a WHO press release, studies show that young people are more likely to start smoking if exposed to tobacco advertising. The WHO notes that only five percent of the world population "is covered by comprehensive bans on tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship". "The WHO appeals to member states and policy-makers to require by law a comprehensive ban on all forms of advertising, promotion, and sponsorship of tobacco products," said WHO Regional Director for Africa Luis Sambo, in a statement released Saturday in Kampala, Uganda."In order to survive, the tobacco industry needs to replace those who quit or die with new young consumers," said WHO Director-General Dr. Margaret Chan. "A ban on all tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship is a powerful tool we can use to protect the world’s youth."The WHO said that tobacco companies are specifically targeting the half billion youth in the Asia Pacific region by tying smoking to the idea of a flashy lifestyle. The agency said the tobacco industry attempts to take advantage of children's susceptibility to advertising and marketing.According to the WHO most people take up smoking before they reach age 18, and almost twenty-five percent of smokers worldwide are under the age of 10. The agency said that a survey of 13 to 15 year-olds found that fifty-five percent had seen cigarette ads on billboards in the prior month, and twenty-percent owned something with a cigarette company's logo.According to BBC News, in the last ten years female and adolescent smoking in Russia has tripled. Russia does not have many anti-smoking laws. BBC News compared this to Canada, where smoking levels are at their lowest in 40 years and the country has very restrictive laws on smoking advertising."The tobacco industry employs predatory marketing strategies to get young people hooked to their addictive drug. But comprehensive advertising bans do work, reducing tobacco consumption by up to 16% in countries that have already taken this legislative step," said Dr. Douglas Bettcher, Director of WHO's Tobacco Free Initiative. A report by the WHO on tobacco use stated that approximately two thirds of the planet's smokers reside in 10 countries including China, India, Indonesia, Russia, the United States, Japan, Bangladesh, Germany, and Turkey. Reuters reported that companies Philip Morris, Imperial Tobacco, British American Tobacco and Japan Tobacco are among the world's largest producers of cigarettes.Teen Andrew Dahl set an arcane world record today on the television show Live with Regis and Kelly. Starting before the show, Dahl started blowing up balloons with his left nostril, continuing for the next hour, hoping to beat the existing 213 balloon record.On finishing, Guinness World Records judge Stuart Claxton announced Dahl had "literally blown the record away", blowing 308 balloons in the 60 minute span. All balloons had to be at least 8 inches wide when blown, and could only be blown with one nostril; Dahl chose his left nostril.Dahl claims to have started the attempt with a slight cold, making breathing harder. He warned show hosts Regis Philbin and Kelly Ripa that "the first few balloons are a little gross".When 7- or 8-years-old, Andrew was waiting behind in a car, while Dahl's father and uncle were in a tuxedo shop. He stuck a balloon up to his nose, began to blow, and over the years has had increasing success, leading up to the record."Live's Guinness World Record Breaker Week", an annual feature on the program, continues until Friday.Predicted heir to World Wrestling Entertainment Shane McMahon has announced he will leave the company on January 1, 2010. McMahon is the son of current owner Vincent K. McMahon and the current Executive Vice President of Global Media for the company. With the departure of Shane, it will be the first time that a male heir will not take over the company when Vince retires. Shane announced his resignation on WWE.com earlier today saying, "It is with great sadness that I announce my resignation from the WWE, effective January 1, 2010." He mentioned how he "never even considered a future outside the walls of the WWE." He continued to thank his father and superstars of today and the past. According to Shane, he resigned because it was his "to pursue outside ventures."World Wrestling Entertainment released an official statement responding to Shane’s announcement. Current owner and Shane’s father Vince McMahon said, "Even though I am personally saddened by Shane’s decision to leave the company, I am proud of the enormous contributions he has made. He will unquestionably bring passion, commitment and extensive business experience to any endeavour he pursues."Shane was the fourth generation to World Wrestling Entertainment. He is the son of Vincent K. McMahon, the grandson of Vincent J. McMahon and the great-grandson of Jess McMahon. He has two sons who are considered the fifth generation.The world's most expensive hotel-casino ever has opened in Las Vegas, Nevada. The casino, which was designed and built over a period of five years, cost US$2.7 billion to construct. The hotel stands nearly fifty stories above the Las Vegas valley, with a 180-foot tall mountain in front of the main entrance.Numerous lavish touches contributed to the high expense of the development. The sign in front of the Wynn property has an unusual mechanical design, with a large piece containing the Wynn logo, which can move vertically up or down as different announcements are presented."I think it's going to start a shift of power. It's been the south for a long time. Things will start moving to the north because of Wynn Las Vegas, Sheldon Adelson with the expansion of the Venetian, the New Frontier -- that whole area will become the new hot area of Las Vegas for the next decade or so," gaming expert Anthony Curtis told Las Vegas KLAS TV.As the property opened to the public, developer Steve Wynn greeted visitors at the front entrance."It's always fascinating to watch people enter the thing and get their first moment after we open the doors," Wynn told the Las Vegas Review-Journal.What is believed to be the world's oldest leather shoe, over 5,500 year old, has been found in a cave in Armenia by a team of archaeologists.The Armenian shoe is in a perfectly preserved condition and is a few hundred years older than the one found on Ötzi the Iceman, making it the oldest piece of leather footwear in the world, and the oldest footwear yet found in Europe. Researchers published details in the journal PLoS ONE.The leather shoe was found in a cave dubbed Areni-1, near the village of Areni in the Vayots Dzor province of Armenia, on the Iranian and Turkish borders.  "I was amazed to find that even the shoe-laces were preserved," recalled Diana Zardaryan, the Armenian PhD student who made the discovery.According to researchers, the shoe, made of cow-hide, consists of only one leather piece and was probably customised to the wearer's foot. It was relatively small, measuring the corresponding to European size 37 or US size 7 women, however, it could have been worn by a man.It was kept in excellent condition by a thick layer of sheep excrement, which acted as a seal, helping it survive the millennia. The shoe contained grass, although the archaeologists were uncertain as to whether this was to used to maintain the shape of the shoe and/or prepare it for storage."We thought initially that the shoe and other objects were about 600-700 years old because they were in such good condition," said  co-author Dr. Ron Pinhasi from the University College Cork in Ireland. "It was only when the material was dated by the two radiocarbon laboratories in Oxford and in California that we realised that the shoe was a few hundred years older than the shoes worn by Ötzi the Iceman".The shoe and the cave will continue to be researched. "We do not know yet what the shoe or other objects were doing in the cave or what the purpose of the cave was", said Pinhasi, "We know that there are children's graves at the back of the cave but so little is known about this period that we cannot say with any certainty why all these different objects were found together".Currently, the oldest known footwear are sandals made from sagebrush bark, found in Fort Rock Cave, Oregon in the United States.  These shoes were discovered in 1938, and have been dated to about 10,000 years before present.Discoveries within the cave move early bronze-age cultural activity in Armenia back by about 800 years. Additional discoveries yielded an extensive array of Copper Age artifacts dating to between 6,200 and 5,900 years ago.Despite allegations that the Mayor of London's office exerted pressure on the organisers of WorldPride in London to change the start time of the event to reduce the number of people attending, thousands of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer people and their supporters marched from Portman Square to Whitehall today. The event celebrated forty years since the first gay pride march in London in 1972.Veterans of the 1972 march led the parade, and were followed by groups representing LGBT charity and campaigning groups including Stonewall and Terrence Higgins Trust, trade unions, student groups and corporations including Tesco, Google, Microsoft, IBM, Ernst and Young, Smirnoff, and KPMG.The world’s largest Santa Claus ice sculpture has been built in China for the upcoming 25th International Ice and Snow Sculpture Festival in Heilongjiang Province. In Harbin, city ice sculptors and organizers are building the giant Father Christmas, a 160 meters (525 ft) long and 24 meters high sculpture. It centers on an enormous face of Santa, complete with flowing beard and hat.Tang Guangjun, one of the sculptors, complained of the effects of global warming and hazardous conditions saying "it is even bigger and higher than last year's, and more difficult. The weather swings between warm and cold, so it becomes very wet and slippery on the ice. It is very dangerous for us." He added that "its huge size and unseasonably warm temperatures have made the job especially challenging." Organizers even have to use artificial snow.The mid-December to early February ice festival which officially begins on January 5, has consistently increased in size over the years, with more talented artists involved and more impressive techniques and pieces on show. Ice sculpture decoration ranges from the modern technology of lasers to traditional ice lanterns. The climate of Heilongjiang is very cold and ice is plentiful. Objects of all sizes appear, up to and including building-sized pieces. In Harbin, winter temperatures can drop to below minus 35 degrees Celsius (- 31 F). According to Jia Yan, director of the local tourism bureau, about 800,000 tourists, 90 per cent of them Chinese, are expected to visit the ice festival this year. Father Christmas or "Shengdan laoren" (literally "The Old Man of Christmas") is a name used in many English speaking countries, for the gift-bringing figure of Christmas. Although "Father Christmas" and "Santa Claus" have for all practical purposes been merged, historically the characters were different.The symbolic personification of Christmas as a merry old figure begins in the early 17th century, in the context of resistance to Puritan criticism of observation of the Christmas feast. He is "old" because of the antiquity of the feast itself, which its defenders saw as a good old Christian custom that should be kept. Allegory was popular at the time, and so "old Christmas" was given a voice to protest his exclusion, along with the form of a rambunctious, jolly old man.The earliest recorded personification of Christmas appears to be Ben Jonson's creation in "Christmas his Masque" dating from December 1616, in which Christmas appears "attir'd in round Hose, long Stockings, a close Doublet, a high crownd Hat with a Broach, a long thin beard, a Truncheon, little Ruffes, white shoes, his Scarffes, and Garters tyed crosse", and announces "Why Gentlemen, doe you know what you doe? ha! would you ha'kept me out? Christmas, old Christmas?" Later, in a masque by Thomas Nabbes, "The Springs Glorie" produced in 1638, "Christmas" appears as "an old reverend gentleman in furred gown and cap". The character continued to appear over the next 250 years, appearing as Sir Christmas, Lord Christmas, or Father Christmas, the last becoming the most common. According to early Christian origins Saint Nicholas of Myra is the primary inspiration for the Christian figure of Santa Claus. He was a 4th-century Greek Christian bishop of Myra in Lycia, a province of the Byzantine Anatolia, now in Turkey.Writer and television presenter Peaches Geldof, 25, was found dead today in her home near Wrotham in Kent, England. Kent Police said they are treating her death as "unexplained and sudden". She was pronounced dead on the scene by the ambulance service.Peaches is the second daughter of rock musician Bob Geldof and television presenter Paula Yates. Starting as a teenager, Geldof wrote for magazines and newspapers including Elle, the The Daily Telegraph and The Guardian, as well as presenting OMG! with Peaches Geldof on ITV2. At the time of her death, she was in her second marriage, to musician Thomas Cohen. She has two sons, Astala and Phaedra, both from the marriage with Cohen. She previously was married for six months to musician Max Drummey.Bob Geldof said "We are beyond pain. She was the wildest, funniest, cleverest, wittiest and the most bonkers of all of us. What a beautiful child. How is this possible that we will not see her again? How is that bearable?"Thomas Cohen also paid tribute: "My beloved wife Peaches was adored by myself and her two sons Astala and Phaedra and I shall bring them up with their mother in their hearts everyday. We shall love her forever."Hollywood writers have voted to end a three-month strike that crippled film and television production. Yesterday, Patric Verrone, president of the Writers Guild of America West, said they will end the 100-day strike. "The membership has voted. Writers can go back to work," Verrone said.Nearly 3800 members of the guild, both the east and west coast unions cast their ballots in New York City and Los Angeles, with more than 92 percent voting to end the strike. The writers will be back to work today and new episodes of televisions series should come as early as four to six weeks.The strike occurred over the streaming of television, movies and other creative work over the Internet and how writers should be paid for that content. Under a tentative agreement, the writers would get a maximum flat fee of $1,200 per program in the first two years, then two percent of a distributor's gross revenue in the third year.The strike ended after entertainment company heads including, Leslie Moonves, the CEO of CBS, Peter Chernin, the president of News Corporation and Robert A. Iger, the CEO of The Walt Disney Company and union officials such as Verrone and executive director David Young worked out a deal.Moonves said the deal was a fair one, according to the Associated Press. When speaking to the entertainment publication Variety, he said, "I think there was some miscommunication early on. It was important that we started speaking eye to eye. Ultimately, getting the percentage of streaming revenue was important to (WGA), and I understand it."The end to the strike means Hollywood's annual celebration, the Academy Awards, can go ahead as scheduled, February 24. The threat of picketing writers had reduced the Golden Globes last month to a news conference. Sid Ganis, the president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and the executive producer of this year's 80th Academy Awards, Gil Cates, will hold a news conference today to reveal their plans for the award show since there will not a be picket line in front of the Kodak Theatre where the award show will be held.The strike stopped production of dozens of television shows and slowed production on movies. One Los Angeles economist says it cost the local economy at least $3 billion. However, the city of Los Angeles believed losses to only be around $380 million.Every Wednesday at 6 p.m., writers of any genre meet at an informal writers' workshop at the Ashland Underground, located at 220 W. Main in Ashland, Wisconsin, U.S.A. A project of the Chequamegon Bay Word Affiliate, area writers have met each week for almost three years. The group of published and aspiring writers first began meeting at the Black Cat, a local cafe, but recently moved to the Underground, where a member book cooperative has been set-up for affiliate and community readers. The Chequamegon Bay Word Affiliate also holds its annual Earth Day Reading each year at the nearby Northern Great Lakes Visitor Center. Writers of any and all skill levels can meet at the free workshop, and are encouraged to bring their latest works.Legendary wrestling manager Captain Lou Albano has died at the age of 76. Albano reached fame in the 1970s and 80’s during his time with the WWWF, later the WWF and WWE. Albano died while under hospice care at his New York home. During his career as a manager he managed several wrestlers and tag teams including Don Muraco, Andre the Giant, The Iron Sheik and the Wild Samoans as well as several others. Throughout his career as a manager he managed over 50 wrestlers and guided them to two dozen championships. Before becoming a full time manager Albano was a wrestler himself even winning the WWF United States Tag Team Championship with Tony Altimore in 1967. Albano retired in 1996.Outside of wrestling Albano appeared in several films and music videos. He played Cyndi Lauper’s father in her video “Girls Just Want To Have Fun” as well as three more of Lauper’s videos. His appearance in her videos caused WWF owner Vince McMahon to create the Rock ‘n’ Wrestling Connection.He also played Mario in The Super Mario Bros. Super Show! along side Danny Wells. Albano was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 1996, the same year as wrestlers he managed Pat Paterson and Jimmy “Superfly” Snuka.Monday evening was the 800th episode of WWE Raw, although not as celebrated as last year's 750th "Raw Family Reunion" episode, it was "business as usual" for the show, pushing towards the WWE No Mercy pay-per-view in two weeks. The show opened with WWE World Heavyweight Champion Chris Jericho coming to the ring and climbing atop a tall ladder where the WWE World Heavyweight Championship belt was hanging overhead. Chris Jericho will face current antagonist Shawn Michaels in a Ladder Match for the championship at the pay-per-view. Jericho talked about the fact that while fans applauded Michaels' remarks regarding his accomplishments in ladder matches fans have forgotten that Jericho has won three championship titles in ladder matches, and has participated in more high-profile ladder matches than Michaels. This would draw out former champion Randy Orton, who has been injured with a shoulder injury for the last three months. Orton on a tear criticizing current and former champions as well as top contenders as to their worthiness of holding the title, and Chris Jericho was no exception. Just as it looked like Jericho was ready to pummel Orton, Orton declared that WWE Raw General Manager Mike Adamle made a new proclamation that anybody who attacked Orton would be suspended indefinitely. Jericho withdrew from the ring, but was immediately replaced by CM Punk, a man Orton attacked a few weeks ago, costing him the WWE World Heavyweight Championship in a four-way match at the WWE Unforgiven pay-per-view. Punk and Orton would come nose-to-nose before Punk slapped Orton in the face, sending him reeling to the corner. General manager Mike Adamle came out along with acting on-air representative Shane McMahon. Together they diffused the situation between Punk and Orton, and announce the main event match, champion Chris Jericho and John "Bradshaw" Layfield against Shawn Michaels and Dave Batista. Before that main event happened, Jericho would talk with Mike Adamle in his office, speculating that the reason Shane McMahon was at the show was to test Adamle's skills as a leader rather than a company yes-man, and that rather than following Mr. McMahon's directions to the letter, that he should use them as a suggestion for his own ideas. This would result in the main event becoming a three-on-two match, with the addition of Lance Cade to the team of Jericho and Layfield. Cade, a former  protégé for Shawn Michaels and current ally of Jericho, played a major factor in the match. Cade's presence in the ring was a distraction to Shawn Michaels, who spent the majority of the match fighting off double-team efforts and cut off from making a tag to his partner. Dave Batista would eventually make that tag, but would be quickly overpowered by Jericho and Layfield. Michaels would tag in one last time while Batista would continue to fight outside of the ring with Layfield. Michaels appeared to have Cade defeated, but a distraction by Jericho allowed Cade to recover and attack Michaels from behind, pinning him after executing a sit-out powerbomb. Full match results for the evening:CM Punk def. WWE World Tag Team Champion Cody Rhodes by pinfall;WWE Intercontinental Champion Santino Marella def. Deuce Shade by pinfall in a non-title match;Kane def. Evan Bourne by pinfall;Kelly Kelly def. WWE Women's Champion Beth Phoenix by pinfall in a non-title match;Mike Mizain & John Morrizon def. Cryme Tyme by pinfall;WWE World Heavyweight Champion Chris Jericho, John Bradshaw Layfield & Lance Cade def. Shawn Michaels & Dave BatistaReigning WWE World Heavyweight Champion Chris Jericho was involved in several controversies on Monday evening. Jericho was told last week that he would face CM Punk, the former champion, in a steel cage match for the title during last week's episode of Raw. What he wasn't told was that this would be the first match on the card for this evening, further frustrating the already banged-up champion. The two men would spend nearly twenty minutes attempting to scramble over each other to be the first to scale their way out of the cage, with former champion Punk appearing to dominate for most of the match. In the end, it would be Jericho who would prevail, after an inadvertent head butt by Jericho sent Punk reeling back towards the middle of the ring, while Jericho haphazardly stumbled backwards through the open cage door. After the match, Jericho would seek out WWE Raw General Manager Mike Adamle, taking issue with being booked to wrestle in four high-profile matches in a three-week time span, and demanded that the rookie G.M. needed to learn how to take care of his champions. The two men left to talk in private. Later in the evening, John "Bradshaw" Layfield lodged a protest in the middle of the ring after his match, demanding that G.M. Adamle declare him to be the #1 Contender for the WWE World Heavyweight Championship. This brought out another former champion, the injured Randy Orton, who told Layfield that he was not impressed with Layfield's performances as of late, and that he was no more worthy to be named the top contender than anybody else who had been making those claims lately. This brought out WWE Intercontinental Champion Santino Marella and girlfriend WWE Women's Champion Beth Phoenix, both of whom have been unhappy with Orton's remarks about them. The four individuals argued, which then brought out yet another former champion, Dave Batista, to continue the arguments. G.M. Adamle then appeared on the arena video screens, informing all of the individuals that he would be consulting with current champion Chris Jericho to determine the top contender, which would be announced later in the evening. This would lead to Dave Batista attempting to influence the decisions by attacking Layfield, Marella and Phoenix in the ring, while Randy Orton quickly left. The evening would end on a surprising note for the champion, however. Chris Jericho returned to the ring, informing the fans and G.M. Adamle that his preference would be that John "Bradshaw" Layfield and Dave Batista would face each other at the WWE "No Mercy" pay-per-view later this month to determine the top contender, and afterwards Jericho would immediately defend the championship against the winner. Adamle came out in front of the live crowd and stated that while he agreed with the idea of the two men fighting for the top contender position at the pay-per-view, he did not like the idea of either of them having to wrestle a second match that night. Instead, the men would face the WWE World Heavyweight Champion at another point in time. Jericho took exception to this, he wanted to defend the title at the show. Adamle informed Jericho that he would be defending the title against an opponent who asked for a shot at the title earlier in the evening. The fans speculated that this was the returning Shawn Michaels, and they were proven correct when Michaels made his presence in front of the fans. Michaels, who recently defeated Jericho in a vicious "unsanctioned" fight just a few weeks ago at the WWE "Unforgiven" pay-per-view, declared that he wanted one more shot at Jericho to satisfy his personal vendetta as well as chance to claim the championship for himself. Michaels stated that the stipulation would be for a Ladder Match. Full match results for the evening:WWE World Heavyweight Champion Chris Jericho d. CM Punk to retain the championshipCandice Michelle d. Jillian Hall by pinfallJohn "Bradshaw" Layfield d. Tommy Dreamer by pinfallManu, Cody Rhodes and Ted DiBiase, Jr. d. Kofi Kingston, Jerry "the King" Lawler and Charlie Haas by pinfallJamie Noble d. Paul Burchill by submissionRey Mysterio d. Kane by disqualificationUp-and-coming WWE star Vladimir Kozlov came to Nashville, TN on Tuesday night with an agenda. "I want better competition," the former sambo champion from Ukrane said last week. "If you will not give it to me, then I will find it myself." Kozolv has done just that, and he started his quest by attacking the top contender for the WWE Championship, Jeff Hardy, at the end his match last week. Hardy would again be the target for Kozlov's frustrations, but he would not be alone. Hardy had just won a hard-fought match against Brian Kendrick, as he was walking up the stage, he turned around to wave to the fans. As Hardy turned around to go backstage, he was surprised by Kozlov with a stiff kick to the chest. The blow left Hardy on the stage, gasping for breath, he would be carried away by medical staff during a commercial break. Later in the evening, it would be WWE Champion Triple H who would become the new target. After Triple H defeated Montel Vontavious Porter in the main event match, Vladimir Kozlov would ambush the champion as he was celebrating in the ring. Triple H, no stranger to being attacked unprepared, quickly retaliated and appeared to have the rookie handled. Kozlov was able to hold his own, and brought down the champion with a vicious head butt. As Triple H laid on the mat knocked out, Kozlov mouthed the words, "The end is near for you." Vladimir Kozlov received word shortly before this second attack that his wish for tougher competition would be answered. If he wants a shot at the WWE Champion, he will have to first go through another former champion, the 7'3" Great Khali. In other events, the reigning WWE Tag Team Champions were also looking for competition. Curt Hawkins and Zach Ryder made an impromptu appearance during Carlito's Cabana as host Carlito Colon was introducing the fans to his younger brother, WWE newcomer Primo Colon. The brothers from Puerto Rico had won their first match as a tag team last week. Hawkins and Ryder came down to the ring and picked a fight with the Colon brothers, challenging them to a match next week. It appeared that the tag team champions were leaving the ring, but when the Colon brothers turned their backs to leave as well, they were attacked by Hawkins and Ryder. Jesse and Festus Dalton came down to the ring to break the scuffle up. Full match results for the evening: WWE Diva's Champion Michelle McCool d. Maryse Oulete by pinfall to retain the title;R-Truth d. WWE United States Champion Shelton Benjamin by pinfall in a non-title match;Jeff Hardy d. Brian Kendrick by pinfall;Ryan Braddock d. Festus Dalton by disqualification;The Great Khali d. Scotty Goldman by pinfall;WWE Champion Triple H d. Montel Vontavious Porter by pinfall in a non-title match.The Stamford, Connecticut-based company World Wrestling Entertainment issued a press release last night, stating that wrestling performer John Cena is expected to recover from his injuries, after a surgery.WWE Medical Program head, described in a press release as a "renowned neurosurgeon" Dr. Joseph Maroon performed the operation on Cena, after he sustained injuries during the SummerSlam match on Sunday August 24. He suffered a herniated disc in his neck, in a lost match against a wrestler named Batista.Just hours after surgery, he visited the locker room of the SmackDown/ECW taping, commenting to the WWE website that: "I feel great. Dr. Maroon is fantastic. He explained every possible procedure he could and could not perform, and the potential risks of all of them. I explained to Dr. Maroon not only my immediate goals, but also my long-term goals. He took them all into consideration and recommended the most commonplace procedure with the least amount of side effects."While the option of fusion surgery was chosen previously by other WWE wrestlers (Edge, Steve Austin, Chris Benoit), Maroon removed a fragment from Cena's spinal cord, which had been blocking a nerve.The operation lasted 90 minutes; recovery is expected to take three months, instead of a previously suggested 12-14 months.In his WWE career, Cena is a three-time WWE Champion, a three-time United States Champion, and a two-time World Tag Team Champion. He also won the 2008 Royal Rumble. Before being promoted to the main WWE roster, Cena trained in and wrestled for Ultimate Pro Wrestling and Ohio Valley Wrestling, holding the top titles of both promotions.Following months of rumours, musician Wyclef Jean today confirmed that he is considering standing for the presidency of Haiti in the country's November elections. A statement from his family and verified by his spokeswoman said that the 37-year-old had not yet announced his intention to run, but that media would be informed "if and when a decision is made".Jean, whose full name is Nel Ust Wycliffe Jean, is seen as popular among young Haitians. With current President René Préval unable to stand for re-election, so far no one has emerged as a clear successor. Despite growing up in the United States and becoming an award-winning rapper there, Jean was born near Port-au-Prince. He has already been appointed as a roving ambassador for his birth country and is the founder of the Yéle Haiti Foundation. He was at the forefront of fund-raising efforts following the devastating earthquake that struck Haiti in January, but his charity faced allegations of financial irregularities.Rumours that he would stand for president had been circulating for months, but, until today's statement, had been flatly denied."Wyclef's commitment to his homeland and its youth is boundless", said the statement from the Jean family, "and he will remain its greatest supporter regardless of whether he is part of the government moving forward.""At this time, Wyclef Jean has not announced his intent to run for Haitian president. If and when a decision is made, media will be alerted immediately."Michael Shifter of think tank Inter-American Dialogue said that the race was "wide open" but that Jean would be "a long-shot". Acknowledging Jean's popularity, he pointed out that the musician was "unaccustomed to the rough and tumble of Haitian politics."It is unclear whether Jean would be constitutionally able to become President. The constitution of Haiti lays out six conditions for candidates: To be elected President of the Republic of Haiti, a candidate must:a. Be a native-born Haitian and never have renounced Haitian nationality;b. Have attained thirty-five (35) years of age by the election day;c. Enjoy civil and political rights and never have been sentenced to death, personal restraint or penal servitude or the loss of civil rights for a crime of ordinary law;d. Be the owner in Haiti of at least one real property and have his habitual residence in the country;e. Have resided in the country for five (5) consecutive years before the date of the elections;f. Have been relieved of his responsibilities if he has been handling public funds.Whilst Jean is thought to meet most of these criteria, The Guardian reports that the rapper is "understood to have US citizenship", and that this would make him ineligible. This was denied by Jean's uncle Raymond Joseph, who is also Haitian Ambassador to the United States."He is not a US citizen and has never been," Joseph told the Christian Science Monitor. The ambassador claimed that Jean had always remained a Haitian citizen.Even then, it is unclear whether Jean will qualify under the residence clause, having spent much of his life in the United States. Ambassador Joseph admitted that this would be up to the Haiti's Provisional Electoral Council to decide.On Thursday, May 22, X played at the Theater of the Living Arts (TLA) in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. Wikinews was there for the concert.The band stopped in Philadelphia as part of their "13 x 31 Anniversary Tour," marking the bands 31st anniversary. The performance was the first since the bands last visit on their "As the World Burns Tour" in 2006, and featured the original line-up of John Doe, Exene Cervenka, Billy Zoom, and D.J. Bonebrake.Having not released an album of new work since 1993's hey Zeus!, the tour is an opportunity for one of punk rock's seminal bands to connect with their fans. The band played a strong set of material from their first four albums, all recorded during the years of 1980 - 1983.No material from their last two studio albums was played, with some citing the strong preferences of guitarist Billy Zoom for the earlier work. X came on stage around 10:30 pm and played until close to midnight. Their full-throttle set started with "Your Phone's Off the Hook, But You’re Not," and didn’t slow down after that, although slowing down might be hard seeing as the set was classic punk – high energy songs full of angst and anger. This was moderated though by Doe’s on-going comments to the audience and Zoom's mugging. Exene, dressed in an oversize black dress seemed subdued and her vocals seemed quieter than usual – though her off-key harmonizing with Does’ vocals was true to the song's original recordings. During the second encore they were joined by Rachel Nagy who provided additional vocals. That encore was delayed by Zoom, who was in the audience seemingly determined to meet every woman in the audience.While X has not produced an album of new material in 21 years, the band did visit recently as their alter-ego, The Knitters. Each of the members of the band has kept busy. Doe has released several solo albums and tours regularly and acts on television; Cervenka fronts the band, the Original Sinners, as well as spoken word performances; Zoom works as an album producer for other bands, and designs his own line of amps and guitars; while Bonebrake works with the Bonebrake Syncopators and Orchestra Superstring.The opening act for X was the Detroit Cobras. The Cobras, fronted by singer Nagy and guitarist Mary Ramirez, provided an energetic opening for the headliners. The word for the night was fun as the members of X spent a good deal of time watching the opening act from the sides of the stage, with Zoom flirting with guitarist Ramirez and coming out on stage to wrestle with her. The Cobras returned the favor by dancing on stage during the last third of X's set.On this tour, X has donated sets of tickets to the non-profit Sweet Relief Musicians Fund to provide assistance to all types of career musicians who are struggling to make ends meet while facing illness, disability, or age-related problems.On 19 February 2007, XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio announced a move that will change the face of satellite radio in the United States and Canada: XM and Sirius will be merging, creating a single satellite radio provider.Multi-million dollar losses, combined with increasing competition from internet radio, downloadable music, and HD radio were factors in this merger. Mel Karmazin, CEO of Sirius Satellite Radio, described the problem: "We don't want to take subscribers from XM. We won't make money that way. We need new subscribers." Likewise, XM executives say they can't succeed by stealing Sirius subscribers. This leaves both companies with the problem of attracting new customers and distinguishing their brand, while at the same time trying to convince potential customers to pay $12.95 a month for radio, something that people are used to getting for free. Even if one company were to force the other out of the marketplace, the remaining company would have won a Pyrrhic victory, without enough capital remaining to take advantage of the situation.The solution: make a deal now, while both companies are both strong and in a position to expand their technologies and services. That's exactly what they plan to do: In press releases and news postings on both of their web sites, both companies have pledged to make the combined company better than either service by itself. "You've heard of 1+1=3," Karmazin said during an invester conference call, "that's what this is."Pending approval of the deal, each share of XM stock will be replaced with 4.6 shares of Sirius. Each company's stockholders will retain approximately 50% of the joined company. Sirius CEO Mel Karmazin will retain his CEO title in the new company, and XM chairman Gary Parsons will retain his. XM CEO Hugh Panero will retain his position until the merger is complete, which should happen near the end of 2007.Today, the satellite radio providers XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio submitted a joint application to transfer control of their ground and space-based transmitters to the new, merged company. This is a major step for the XM/Sirius merger deal, as FCC approval represents a major hurdle for the merger. This document also answers some questions that have plagued subscribers of both services.While there is not much information for the casual listener, two of the most frequently asked questions have been addressed, at least in part:Pricing has been clarified, to some exeent. From the FCC filing: "After the merger, customers may elect to receive fewer channels at a monthly price lower than $12.95;substantially similar programming at the existing $12.95 price; or more channels, including someof the 'best of both' networks, at a modest premium to the cost of one service, and considerablyless than the cost of subscribing to both services." The document goes on to explain that channel blocking will be available, and that credit will be given for blocked channels.The filing also addresses the potential need for new receivers. "Subscribers could continue to use their existing radios or eventually purchase new radios capable of receiving all of the content of both services when they become available." Apparently, some programming will be available on both networks, but this will be limited. To get the full range of programming, subscribers will need new equipment.Another major stumbling block for the merger deal is the potential for monopoly. To counter the arguments that the merged company will become a monopoly, the document goes on to describe the nature of satellite radio's competition: HD radio, Internet radio, AM and FM radio, portable media players, mobile phones, and even CD players. "It is clear that all of the above providers view themselves as being in direct competitionwith each other," the document alleges, and then goes on to quote statements by the National Association of Broadcasters in support of this assertion. "local radio stations compete for listeners with other forms of audio delivery offering an almost unlimited array of content. IPods and other MP3 players, music [subscription] services, podcasting and the Internet streaming of U.S. and foreign radio stations literally provide content from around the world to listeners in each local radio market in America."As this is only the first step in the FCC process, and the FCC is only one of three major steps in the merger process, the deal is far from over. However, convincing the FCC that the merger should happen will remove a major barrier in the companies' efforts.The first ever feature-length film to be shot in Yemen will be screened, but will not compete for prizes, at this year's international Cannes Film Festival.  The 90-minute romantic drama by British-Yemeni film director, Bader Ben Hirsi, is titled A New Day in Old Sanaa'a."For the most people viewing this film, it will be the first time they ever see images of Yemen.  The results will be a very positive message" which offers a "true and honest" portrait of life in Yemen, said a spokesman from the Yemeni Media Center in 2003, when the film was in the planning stage.  The film will depict aspects that are "completely different from the negative image that most of the world has" of the Middle-Eastern Arab nation, said the spokesman.Sana'a, where the capital of Yemen has been relocated since 1962, is known for its Muslim university and many mosques, as a center of Islamic culture.  It was noted in medieval times as a beautiful and hospitable city, and was described by the 10th century Persian traveler Ahmad ibn Rustah as follows: "It is the city of Yemen — there not being found in the highland or the Tihama or the Hijaz a city greater, more populous or more prosperous, of more noble origin or more delicious food than it... with fine dwellings."The leading actor is Nabil Saber of Old Sana'a, and his co-star is the actress and make-up artist Julia Towns of London.  The pair found real-life romance and exchanged wedding vows last year in London, after bowing to tradition and obtaining agreement from both their families.The film, co-produced by the Yemen Media Center and Felix Films of London, is not yet 100% complete due to funding shortfall.  There is planned to be a low-key showing to introduce the film at the Marché du Film (Film Market) portion of the Cannes Festival, but it is not eligible to compete for the Palme d'Or (Golden Palm) due to its unfinished status.  The official premiere is to be held this summer, with widespread promotion and showing in universities and art centers around the world.    Ben Hirsi commented on his film, "A New Day in Old Sana'a could be categorized as a romantic drama, showing a very real conflict between modern values and old, [but] is respectful of the strong morals of Yemen's Islamic society. It does not contain such cinematic norms as profanity, graphic violence or sexually explicit content... As is true in modern-day Sana'a, however, traditional practices and concepts are tackled and confronted — topics such as love, caste, Yemeni marriage customs and the wearing of the veil are addressed in detail, and the inner turmoil that results from changing social values in a modernizing society forms a central theme of the story."Yemen's Abdul-Karim Qasem, who creates crosswords for publications like al-Arabi magazine and the newspaper al-Moshahad, has created a puzzle more than 3 times larger than the current recognized record holder.Qasem's puzzle, currently in the initial stages of review with the Guinness World Records, includes 320,500 "puzzle squares", easily topping the previous high of 91,000 squares. The accompanying book of clues for the puzzle is 800,720 words long.Qasem learned of the previous record when visiting the Guinness World Records website in 2000. He took the next seven years to research unique information for the puzzle, from in various international books and websites. "I did not want my information to be repeated," he told the Yemen Observer.He told the Observer that, during the seven years, he ignored his children's "simple and serious needs", and bought supplies for the project with funds reserved for basic family needs.The man asked the local authorities in Ibb for support, but was met with indifference. However, when he visited the Presidential Office in Sana'a, President Ali Abdullah Saleh immediately asked the Ministry of Culture to "support [him] in any way [he] needed."Finding ballpoint pen ink wasn't clear enough on his paper, Qasem filled his pens with a medicine meant for curing simple burns. Despite this effort, his once "very good" eyesight has weakened, forcing him to wear glasses. His back also hurts from the experience, and any quick movement hurts him to the extent that he is bedridden for the next two days.Guinness' press staff told Wikinews that the organization has no records for this man's name, but say he may simply be too early in the record confirmation process to be registered.YouTube videos could once again be viewed today in Thailand, nearly six months after the video-sharing website was blocked for hosting a video that showed images deemed offensive to Thailand's monarch, King Bhumibol Adulyadej.Information and Communications Technology Minister Sitthichai Pookaiyaudom said the ministry unblocked YouTube after the website said it had developed ways to block Thailand viewers from seeing contents that violate Thai laws.In April, YouTube was blocked in Thailand after a video was uploaded that showed graffiti scrawled over the king's face, and feet being placed over the king's face; both highly offensive acts in Thai culture. Against the king, the offense is known as lèse majesté, a crime that can carry severe penalties.Sitthichai told The Nation newspaper that the unblocking of YouTube is not in response to an apology issued in May by the video uploader.Two well-known critics of Scientology have had their user accounts on the video sharing website YouTube suspended. The YouTube accounts of both Tory Christman and Mark Bunker were suspended this week. In a statement to Wikinews, YouTube explained why accounts are suspended, but did not specifically state why these particular accounts were suspended. Neither Christman nor Bunker received a notice or explanation from YouTube as to why their accounts were suspended.On Tuesday April 15, Tory Christman a former Scientologist and volunteer for their Office of Special Affairs, and known as ToryMagoo44 on YouTube, had her account suspended for unknown reasons. On Wednesday, after complaints to YouTube from other YouTube users and from members of the group Anonymous, Christman's account was restored.Wikinews confirmed Friday that Mark Bunker known as 'xenutv1' on YouTube, a television journalist and critic of Scientology, had his user account suspended. This is the second time that Bunker's account was suspended. He was formerly known as 'xenutv' when his account was suspended the first time."I want to see the complaint and on what grounds did YouTube suspend my account. I have done nothing on that account that would violate any of their terms and my videos and account should not have been pulled. The only caveat to this is my first account "XenuTV" was suspended a while back for a Stephen Colbert video I had from Comedy Central. At that time I created XenuTV1 and according to YouTube's terms you can only have one account. Any time I have ever been asked to remove something that may violate their terms for copyright materials, I comply immediately. It would be wrong and a misuse of power to pull my account because of this lone loophole in their terms," said Bunker exclusively to Wikinews.Bunker, who is also the owner of the anti-Scientology website www.xenutv.com, has become known as Wise Beard Man to Anonymous. He was interviewed by Wikinews in February. Bunker started XenuTV in 1999 and began to make videos that he provided for the Lisa McPherson Trust. Bunker has been a critic of the Church of Scientology since 1997.In 2006, he won a  Regional Emmy Award after he and KUSI-TV news reporter Lena Lewis produced a documentary news video on the issues with the United States - Mexico border with San Diego, California.With permission from Christman, Bunker responded to his account's suspension with a video post to her YouTube channel on Thursday. Bunker stated: "This afternoon at 2:41, I found out YouTube canceled my account. No justification was given to me, I got no notice from them, and there appears to be no recourse. And why did this happen? Because the Jason Beghe interview was about to be posted - and Scientology did not want anyone to see that. My tease for the Jason Beghe interview went up on Sunday, and by this afternoon we had almost six hundred thousand views, and it had been profiled in newscasts around the world. There is a lot of tension being drawn to this video, and Scientology wanted to stop it."Jason Beghe is a television and film actor who joined Scientology in 1994. He gave USD1 million to the Church of Scientology over the years, and told Roger Friedman of FOX News that Scientology head David Miscavige called him "the poster boy for Scientology". Beghe appeared in promotional videos for Scientology in 2005. In April 2008 he left Scientology, and contacted Andreas Heldal-Lund, who put him in touch with Mark Bunker. Bunker arranged an interview with Beghe, which was uploaded to Bunker's YouTube account on April 7. The posted video is a 3-minute portion of a larger 3-hour interview with Beghe about his criticism of Scientology. In the video Beghe states: "Scientology is destructive and a rip-off. ... It’s very, very dangerous for your spiritual, psychological, mental, emotional health and evolution. "In an interview with Wikinews, Tory Christman commented on the suspension of her account, and now Bunker's: "Well having worked for the Office of Special Affairs which is part of the Church of Scientology, they used to have me go out and open up phony accounts, I didn't know they were stopping free speech on the net but once I realized that ... I said 'I can't do this, I didn't get into Scientology to stop free speech'. ... I'm pretty sure, you know, I'm quite sure, that it's Scientology. That's what they do, that's their view is just 'shut em down' they have no morals on it or anything. They just figure 'screw em, shut em down'."Christman said she found out her YouTube account had been suspended on Tuesday: "I came back from lunch at four and Mark called me and said 'Do you know your account is suspended?', and by the morning of yesterday it was back up."When asked if she had received a notice about the suspension from YouTube, Christman responded: "I never got anything, and I've looked through everything, I never got any kind of a notice, either way. ... I never heard from YouTube either way - suspending it, or putting it back. And I've written them, and it was only put back thanks to Anonymous and all the critics and people that wrote in to them, I'm quite sure - Because tons of people did, it wasn't like they just put it back up." "I would like to know, why was it suspended, why is Mark's suspended, what are the violations, okay, because if the Church of Scientology is just paying them off that's kind of weird, isn't it?," added Christman.Wikinews asked Christman if she knew if the suspension of Bunker's account had anything to do with the interview with Jason Beghe: "Why Jason's video was pulled, I don't know, and I've spoken to Jason and he didn't know either."She told Wikinews: "I would like to know why. Someone should have a right to be told 'you are screwing up on this, remove this video' ... 'change it'. But to never be notified and then just you're suspended, that's kind of weird, I think. And I have every intention of either, YouTube can contact me, or I'm going to keep contacting ... they need to let the people know what is going on."A YouTube spokeswoman told Wikinews that they would respond to our e-mails "as soon as possible." Within two hours YouTube issued a statement to Wikinews saying that they "do not comment on individual videos.""YouTube takes these issues very seriously but we don't comment on individual videos. Our general approach is simple: we have clear content policies about what videos are allowed on the site. For example we prohibit clips that infringe copyright or show extreme violence. Videos that breach these rules are removed and we disable all accounts belonging to repeat offenders," said a spokesperson for YouTube. When asked, YouTube did not state when or if Bunker's account will be reinstated.YouTube announced that Taiwan Traditional Chinese website has been released yesterday in Taipei City, Taiwan, and the unique web address will be shown as "www.youtube.com.tw" or "tw.youtube.com". Users from YouTube Global Sites can access Taiwan Site. This site launch will be a benefit for users preferring reading Chinese more than other languages.In the press conference, co-founder Steve Chen explained the reason choosing ".tw" address, "With lots of good experiences using Traditional Chinese Site in Hong Kong, I think Taiwan should also be. We improved search functions to find more in Taiwan." He remarked. "YouTube has lots of international sites in many countries including Taiwan, with a keyword, you can find lots of different results in different sites." YouTube International Manager Sakina Arsiwala said.Not only the launch by the performance of Eight Generals and Steve Chen, YouTube also invited China Television Co., CommonWealth Magazine, Lion Travel Co., Ltd., and Taiwan Broadcasting System to share experiences of partnership. "We should learn some conceptions on sharing and public service needed in this networking era." Yuan-hui Hu (President and CEO of Public Television Service, Taiwan) remarked at the Partner Panel of the Press Conference.After the Press Conference, YouTube held launch and site experience activities at Xinyi Plaza of Shin Kong Mitsukoshi and invited registered users participating in "Beautiful Taiwan" online video competition.The online video sharing site YouTube has today hosted the first official "YouTube Live"  event, which featured many popular musicians and contributors to the site.Two events took place, one in San Francisco, United States and one in Japan, with the event in the US featuring artists such as Joe Satriani, Akon and Katy Perry.Another performer at the event, which started this morning at 0100 UTC, was will.i.am, who published his song "Yes We Can" on YouTube, with the video receiving millions of views on the site. The song was based on Barack Obama's concession speech after losing the New Hampshire Democratic Primary to Hillary Clinton. At the event will.i.am presented his song "In My Name," which calls for an end to child poverty. "YouTube Live is the first time a broad variety of YouTube stars are scheduled to appear together under one roof," stated Chris Di Cesare, who works for YouTube as the Head of Marketing. "There have been so many wonderful talents that have emerged from YouTube and more established acts continue to recognize how invaluable YouTube is to building their audience. We felt it was only right to recognize them all in true YouTube fashion."YouTube has stated that, between them, the more than 50 artists performing at the event have 2.5 billion views for their videos on its website. The audience of the event was primarily notable contributors and partners to the video sharing site.YouTube user Chris Crocker experienced instant fame this week after posting a video on YouTube defending Britney Spears, titled "LEAVE BRITNEY ALONE!". The video is a two minute, eleven second top-down view of his face as he speaks against her exploitation for money.It has attracted some media attention, with an interview by CNN and stories by such sources as MSNBC. Comments have been mixed, with a number of insults regarding his emotional defense and effeminate appearance, alongside more supportive statements concerning his message.The video's popularity has drawn attention to his channel and older videos, which have experienced a sharp increase in viewers. As of 14 September, the original YouTube video was viewed nearly 5 million times (in addition to numerous mirrors elsewhere), received nearly 69000 direct comments (including unrelated or spam comments), and was favorited by nearly 11000 users. He has since posted a follow-up video about FOX News, speaking about how he has been mistreated by the media.Zayn Malik, one of the members of British pop boy-band One Direction, has left the group after five years. The band confirmed yesterday that Malik has left the group with a statement on Facebook. They also announced they would continue with the remaining four members and their fifth album would be recorded later this year. The statement posted on One Direction's Facebook page said "After five incredible years Zayn Malik has decided to leave One Direction. Niall, Harry, Liam and Louis will continue as a four-piece and look forward to the forthcoming concerts of their world tour and recording their fifth album, due to be released later this year".Malik, 22, also released a statement through Facebook confirming his departure. He said "My life with One Direction has been more than I could ever have imagined. But, after five years, I feel like it is now the right time for me to leave the band. I'd like to apologise to the fans if I've let anyone down, but I have to do what feels right." After news of Malik's departure spread fans took to social media to share their disappointment. On Twitter the hashtag #AlwaysInOurHeartsZaynMalik was created and 48,000 comments were left on the statement posted by the band on Facebook. The Employer Advice Service, based at Manchester company Peninsula, said 220 people had called overnight regarding compassionate leave relating to the news. Speaking to the Manchester Evening News, employment law director Alan Price said “While I sympathise with One Direction fans, I hardly think this qualified as compassionate leave".One Direction formed as a group in 2010 after competing as single artists on the British reality music competition The X Factor. The band was signed by Simon Cowell's record label after the show, which they finished third on. The remaining members of the group are Harry Styles, Niall Horan, Liam Payne and Louis Tomlinson.Electronic Gaming Monthly is now dead. EGM was one issue away from its 20th anniversary in February 2009. An internal email leaked to industry website Gamasutra on Tuesday revealed that EGM was to be closed following the acquisition of the online element of the 1UP network by competitor Hearst Corporation's UGO Entertainment and that the January 2009 issue (with Wolverine on the cover) would be the final printed issue of the iconic magazine. Ziff Davis's sale, brokered by GCA Savvian Advisors also includes Mycheats.com, Gametab.com, and GameVideos.com. Hearst Interactive is the owner and operator of UGO Entertainment. According to CEO Jason Young, the court proceedings help Ziff Davis “pay down debt and shift our full focus to our core PCMag Digital Network Business.” Davis had been focusing on PCMag Digital Network. As a result, around 30 employees of Ziff Davis' Game Group, including EGM Magazine's staff, 1UP Network's web staff, podcast and video producers lost their jobs. A UGO spokesman explained that "the reality is that UGO Entertainment is saving over 25 jobs, the company is retaining a core group of editorial all-star performers." Ziff Davis Holdings Inc (ZFDH.PK), which publishes EGM and about 15 Web sites, obtained Manhattan, New York Court Judge Burton Lifland's approval of a reorganization plan under Chapter 11, Title 11, United States Code. It was able, therefore, to emerge from its duly filed March bankruptcy protection petition.UGO Entertainment CEO J Moses left a note on EGM's gaming legacy, saying, "since we started UGO 11 years ago, we have served the gamer community and built a world-class online publishing platform." Ziff Davis Media CEO Jason Young further noted: "We believe this is a smart transaction for Ziff Davis Media that places these market leading assets and teams in a great environment poised for further success. The transaction allows us to pay down debt and shift our full focus to our core PCMag Digital Network business. We thank our 1UP team members for their contributions and wish them the best of success into the future." In July 2007, Hearst acquired the 11-year-old UGO Networks (Hearst Interactive) for an estimated price of $100 million. Established in 1998 by CEO J Moses, UGO is an online site targeting men aged 18 to 34. J Moses stated categorically that his company just saved 1UP and UGO never tried to acquire EGM. “Closing EGM has absolutely nothing to do with UGO. We have just hired 24 people and have expanded UGO by 33 percent, because our business is robust and growing. We only wanted to buy 1UP and related sites. That was our interest as a dot-com company and that’s all we’ve ever been for 11 years." Sam Kennedy, editorial director of 1UP, further explained that Ziff Davis was insolvent and 1UP was not financially healthy. "The reality of the market was that no company, including UGO, was willing to sustain 1UP as it was so the cuts were very painful but necessary to the survival of 1UP," he added.Electronic Gaming Monthly, which has been synonymous to video games for generations of gamers, was an American consumer video game magazine mainstay. It was published by Ziff Davis as part of the 1UP Network and released 12 issues a year (and an occasional extra "13th" issue for the Christmas season, also known as the "Smarch" issue, a reference to an episode of The Simpsons). As ZD's sole print magazine, EGM, a stalwart of the videogame industry and dubbed the New York Times of games journalism, has been losing money. The 20-year-old publication had 236 issues total, since its debut in 1989. In 2008, the company closed 27-year Games for Windows Magazine, or Computer Gaming World. In late 2006, Ziff-Davis also shuttered its Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine, while its  Xbox-focused XBN and Electronics Boutique in-store mag GMR were terminated in 2004. EGM's February issue, which is completed, will only be available digitally. Print publications have been suffering for years now, due to the global economic meltdown.In Britain one of the most important watercolours to be put up for sale in half a century has been snapped up for £5.8 million at Christie's (actual selling price: £5,832,000 including excess). In "The Blue Rigi: Lake of Lucerne, Sunrise" the telephone bidder bought a softly glowing yellow sunrise in which JMW Turner trapped a moment of cause and effect - gun, dog and the flight of ducks."In a technique of almost unimaginable subtlety Turner expresses his lifelong preoccupation with the effects of light, shade and atmosphere," said Noel Annesley, honorary chairman of Christie's, who personally took the gavel for the auction.The painting has two sister paintings also from Switzerland: The Red Rigi and The Dark Rigi. "Turner had never made any drawings like this before and never made any like them again," said John Ruskin, the 19th century art critic, when he saw the works. In 1842 the painting was bought by its first owner Elhanan Bicknell for 80 guineas and was in the property of its latest owners since 1942. The auction house has said they plan to keep the identity of the newest buyer, who paid slightly more than 80 guineas, secret.In 2000 Rosetti's Pandora was the last most expensive watercolour ever sold in Britain - it went for £2.6m, less than half the price of The Blue Rigi.