Two Internet bloggers from Azerbaijan could be getting up to five years in prison after posting a video of a donkey giving a press conference on YouTube, a free video sharing website. Adnan Hajizade, 26 and Emin Milli, 29, posted the video on YouTube as a joke. It was in the country's native language, with English subtitles. The video depicts a man dressed in a donkey costume praising the benefits of living in Azerbaijan. It was also praising the positive attitude the country's government has towards its donkeys.Azerbaijan's government was not amused by the video. After police scuffled with Hajizade and Milli in a restaurant in Baku, Azerbaijan's capital, both men were arrested. There was reportedly an assault on the pair, with nose injuries to Adnan and leg injuries to Emin. The authorities insist they are investigating a simple criminal case, but Isakhan Ashurov, the lawyer of the two 'criminals' claims that the arrests were politically motivated."This incident is definitely politically motivated. My clients did not beat anybody. Quite the opposite," stated Ashurov.The British teacher jailed for letting her students name a teddy bear "Muhammad" as part of a writing project arrived in England after being pardoned - ending a case that set off an international outcry and angered many moderate Muslims.Gillian Gibbons is back home after serving eight days of a 15-day sentence for allowing her students to name a teddy bear "Muhammad" as part of a writing project. This angered Sudanese authorities who said it was an insult to the Islamic prophet. She was released after being pardoned by Sudan's President Omar al-Bashir.In Britain, the obviously relieved Gibbons said she was concerned she might have offended people."It has been an ordeal but I would like you to know that I was well-treated in prison and everybody was very kind to me. I was very sorry to leave Sudan. I had a fabulous time there. It is a really lovely place, and I managed to see some of the beautiful countryside while I was there," she said. "The Sudanese people I found to be extremely kind and extremely generous, and until this happened to me, I only had a good experience."Gibbons could have received 40 lashes or a six-month jail sentence.  After her sentencing last week, hundreds of Sudanese demonstrated for a stiffer sentence, with some calling for her to be executed.Gibbons' arrest resulted in an international outcry and a tense stand-off between Sudan and Britain. It was also widely condemned by British Muslims. Her release followed the intervention of two Muslim peers, Lord Ahmed and Baroness Warsi who travelled to Khartoum and met Monday with President Omar al- Bashir.A senior adviser of president Bush said Mr. Bashir insisted Gibbons had received a fair trial.Danny Fitzsimons, 30, gave evidence today to the court in Karkh, Baghdad trying him for murdering a fellow Brit and an Australian in August 2009. The security contractor said his ArmorGroup collegues had tried to kill him in the city's Green Zone, challenged the fairness of his trial and offered a plea bargain. Fitzsimons used his pistol to kill Darren Hoare, 37, from Queensland, Australia and Paul McGuigan, 37, from Peebles, Borders, Scotland. The first Westerner tried in Iraq since the invasion in 2003, he testified that the trio were drinking whisky and began fighting after he punched McGuigan's face. He claimed McGuigan had him at gunpoint with an M4 rifle while Hoare pushed him on the ground after the pair entered his room."I was seconds away from my death so I pulled my pistol," Fitzsimons told the three-judge panel. "I shouted twice to put down the weapon. He didn't respond to my commands, my requests, so I made a decision. I shot him [McGuigan] twice in the chest." Acting out the events, he added "Bang, bang in his chest."Next, according to Fitzsimons, he fired a third shot, this time hitting McGuigan in the face. His widow has described the three shots as an "execution". In further testimony today Fitzsimons told the judges Hoare then grabbed the pistol and tried to force it "to my throat to kill me... and while we were wrestling I fired two shots in the chest. I made the decision and pulled the trigger."He then fled for the British Embassy, but was stopped by an Iraqi guard who ordered the blood-soaked man to stop at gunpoint. Fitzsimons pulled his own gun and shot the guard in the thigh, for which he faces an attempted murder charge.Iraqi law requires the entry of a plea at the end of a trial, and Fitzsimons entered not guilty pleas. He also offered the judges a plea bargain - he would plead guilty to the lesser charge of manslaughter, which, unlike murder, does not carry the death penalty. The verdict has been delayed until February 20 while the judges seek documentation clarifying the accused's psychiatric state and consider if this should impact their decision as to guilt or innocence.Fitzsimons was previously diagnosed by a medical committee with post traumatic stress disorder and made multiple requests to tell the judges about this. These were refused, the judges saying they were sufficiently aware of this already. Fitzsimons retorted that he believes this breaches his right to a fair trial: "This is not fair. I don't believe it is a fair trial."The right to a fair trial is enshrined in Article 10 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states "[e]veryone is entitled... to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal, in the determination of... any criminal charge against him." The Constitution of Iraq states in Article 19 "[t]he accused is innocent until proven guilty in a fair legal trial," and "[e]very person shall have the right to be treated with justice in judicial... proceedings."File:Civil Rights Mural SMC May 2007.jpgOn Tuesday, the "Bloody Sunday Inquiry" published its report into 1972 British Army killing of fourteen civil rights activists in Northern Ireland.The Saville Inquiry, a twelve-year-long public inquiry into the fatal shooting, published their 5,000-page report; stating, the deaths were "unjustified".The events of "Bloody Sunday" in 1972 saw soldiers open fire on civilians during a civil rights march. Family members and supporters of the victims reacted positively to the report, as they gathering outside the Guildhall in Derry."What happened on Bloody Sunday was both unjustified and unjustifiable. It was wrong", British Prime Minister David Cameron told the House of Commons. He also said, "[t]he Government is ultimately responsible for the conduct of the armed forces, and for that, on behalf of the Government, indeed on behalf of our country, I am deeply sorry", and that "[t]here is no doubt. There's nothing equivocal, there are no ambiguities".Cameron said the Saville report states that those killed did not pose a threat and some of those killed and injured were clearly fleeing or going to help those injured or dying. Some of the key findings were;"The firing by soldiers of 1 Para caused the deaths of 13 people and injury to a similar number, none of whom was posing a threat of causing death or serious injury";"Despite the contrary evidence given by soldiers, we have concluded that none of them fired in response to attacks or threatened attacks by nail or petrol bombers";Accounts by soldiers were rejected and some had "knowingly put forward false accounts";The paratroopers shot first and later members of the official IRA fired a number of shots but this “did not provide an explanation for why soldiers targeted and hit people”;Northern Ireland's Deputy First Minister, Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein, was "probably armed with a sub-machine gun" on the day, but did not engage in "any activity that provided any of the soldiers with any justification for opening fire".Twenty-seven civil rights activists were shot by the British Army's Parachute Regiment (of which "1 Para" was identified as the regiment mainly responsible) during an illegal Northern Ireland Civil Rights Association (NICRA) march in the Bogside area of Derry in 1972. The NICRA was an organisation, formed in early 1967, which campaigned against discrimination of the Roman Catholic minority in Northern Ireland and had five key demands: "one man, one vote"; an end to gerrymandering, housing discrimination, public authority discrimination and the abolition of the B Specials police reserve.In the aftermath of Bloody Sunday, an inquiry by the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Widgery, justified British army actions on the day and claimed that many of the activists were armed with guns and nail bombs. Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP) leader MP Mark Durkan said, "[t]he families have waited a long time for justice and for a long time the reputations and innocence of their loved ones have been smeared by the findings of Widgery".The shootings lead to the strengthening of Irish republicans' anti-British army arguments in the Nationalist community and provided the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) with queues of new recruits for its "long war", which resulted in 30 years of The Troubles.The 12-year inquiry is the longest-running and most expensive public inquiry in British judicial history, costing around £200 million. Around 2,500 people gave testimony, including 505 civilians, nine experts and forensic scientists, 49 journalists, 245 military personnel, 35 paramilitaries or former paramilitaries, 39 politicians and civil servants, seven priests and 33 Royal Ulster Constabulary officers. Evidence included 160 volumes of data with an estimated 30 million words, 13 volumes of photographs, 121 audio tapes and 10 video tapes.The victims included Patrick Doherty (32), Hugh Gilmour (17), Jackie Duddy (17), John Young (17), Kevin McElhinney (17), Michael Kelly (17), Gerald Donaghey (17), William Nash (19), Michael McDaid (20), Jim Wray (22), William McKinney (27) and Bernard "Barney" McGuigan (41). John Johnston (59) died four months later.A video has surfaced which shows police in St. Paul, Minnesota arresting over 200 people at a city park during the first day of the Republican National Convention (RNC) on September 1, 2008. The video first appeared on YouTube which was then picked up and reported on by the political news websites Alternet.org and Blue Linchpin. Glass Bead Collective (GBC), which had interviewed the author of one of the buried videos, was preemptively raided before the RNC according to an interview published on Democracynow.org.The video, which had been buried in the park's ground by the author only known as 'Wes', shows hundreds of people, protesters and others who were there to only to attend the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) concert and were not part of the convention at all; talking amongst themselves or passing through. Nearly 400 armed police officers, dressed in full riot gear, then began to surround them. Some officers were on bicycles while others were on horses. Some people began to yell for help while others complained that the officers cut them off from water and the use of restrooms for at least an hour. One video shows police shooting canisters of tear gas and percussion grenades at seemingly peaceful protesters, some who were on bicycles, were running and screaming for help.According to another video posted on Alternet.org, among those arrested were people just passing through or were there to use its services. It also states that the National Guard was dispatched to the park. When the narrator of one of the videos asks the police what the police are waiting for, he replies "we are waiting for them [other officers] to let us know when we can let you leave." Several minutes later, police began to arrest everyone they surrounded."Ladies and gentlemen, you are [all] under arrest. Please be seated, place your hands on your head and cooperate with us," stated a police officer speaking through a megaphone. In the background one female is heard saying, "Are you serious?" The Glass Bead Collective tells Wikinews that 'Wes' was charged with "felony rioting" but that after spending three days in jail, "his charges were downgraded to misdemeanors right before he saw the judge". GBC also tells Wikinews that about a week after being released, 'Wes' went back to the park and retrieved his videotape.It is not known if anyone was injured nor if any individuals remain in jail. Reports say that 800 people were arrested during the convention, with nearly 20% of those being the people inside the park.Venezuela-born Ilich Ramírez Sánchez was back in a French court on Monday. The 67-year-old, better known as Carlos the Jackal from his notoriety as a political terrorist, now faces trial for an attack in 1974 on a Parisian shopping centre. The attack killed two and injured 34. File:Carlos the Jackal.jpgRamírez Sánchez, who was being defended by his lawyer and long-term partner Isabelle Coutant-Peyre, called the trial a "gross manipulation of justice" and pleaded innocent to the charge of throwing a hand grenade into the centre in 1974. He gave a long statement to the court in which he proclaimed "No-one has executed more people than me in the Palestinian resistance [...] In all the fighting, there were collateral victims, it's unfortunate".  When asked for his profession he stated he was a "professional revolutionary".While Ramírez Sánchez's lawyer, Coutant-Peyre, denounced the trial as pointless, victims' lawyer George Holleaux said, "The victims have been waiting so long for Ramírez to be judged and convicted. Their wounds have never healed."Ramírez Sánchez already faces two life sentences for convictions of murders and attacks that took place in France during the '70s and '80s committed in the name of the Palestinian cause or communist revolution. If found guilty, Ramírez Sánchez faces a third life sentence.Police in Kent, England have described a woman who called the emergency services to report the theft of a snowman as "completely irresponsible." The woman rang 999 after noticing the snowman outside her house had vanished."There's been a theft from outside my house," she told the operator. "I haven't been out to check on him for five hours but I went outside for a fag and he's gone." When asked who had disappeared, the woman said: "my snowman." Chief inspector Simon Black said that the call "could have cost someone's life if there was a genuine emergency and they couldn't get through."The woman told the operator: "I thought that with it being icy and there not being anybody about he'd be safe. It ain't a nice road but you don't expect anybody to nick your snowman." Black said that they had spoken with the woman and warned her not to call unless she was in an emergency. Even though abusing the emergency services system is a prosecutable offence in Britain, she will not be charged. "In this case the woman genuinely thought this was a theft that she should report it because she'd used pound coins for the eyes and teaspoons for the arms," Black added.Over 1,700 women from more than 40 nations marched through Bukavu, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) yesterday, to protest sexual violence against their gender. The United Nations calls the nation the "rape capital of the world" and estimates 15,000 rapes were committed last year in the DRC. One local activist said "They [the women] have had enough, enough, enough, enough. Enough of the [civil] war, of the rape, of nobody paying attention to what's happening to them."Both rebel groups and government troops are accused of rape, with march organisers hoping to draw international attention to rape as a weapon in war. Eastern Congo is worse affected, and aid groups have suggested the actual figure may be higher as victims are unlikely to come forward. The UN states mass rapes have occurred in the area for at least 15 years. Some rape victims left hospital to participate in the march.The third "World March of Women" followed several days of talks aimed at changing the social acceptance of violence, especially against women, in the Congo. Peace and development were also on the agenda for women from nations including Togo, South Africa, Pakistan, and Brazil. Some men also joined the discussions.The use of a 25-second clip from John Lennon's song Imagine in a film critical of the Theory of Evolution has been deemed likely to be defensible under a fair use doctrine by U.S. District Judge Sidney Stein.The film Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed, produced by Premise Media and starring comedian Ben Stein, uses the clip to represent "the most popular and persuasive embodiment of this viewpoint that the world is better off without religion", according to Premise representative Anthony Falzone at a hearing last month. In the song, Lennon proposes the hypothetical "Imagine there's no heaven ... and no religion too".On April 23, 2008, Lennon's widow, Yoko Ono, along with his sons Julian and Sean, and music producer EMI Blackwood, Inc., filed suit against Premise Media seeking damages for alleged copyright infringement, as the song had not been licensed to appear in the film. On May 19, a preliminary injunction was issued, preventing distribution of the film. On June 2, Judge Stein of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that the fair use defense would likely succeed if it went to court, and lifted the injunction. In his judgement, he wrote that "the fair use of a copyrighted work for the purposes of criticism and commentary is not an infringement of copyright".Expelled is a documentary that claims that Intelligent Design proponents are being suppressed by the majority of the scientific community. It has received criticism from many scientists and film critics, and has also faced copyright claims over animated sequences that resemble the short animation The Inner Life of the Cell, produced by XVIVO and Harvard University.In a statement Ono commented that "it is a pity that this decision weakens the rights of all copyright owners". She plans to appeal the decision.Thirty-six years after he was found guilty of an armed robbery in London, a court has quashed the conviction of George Davis, ruling it unsafe. The court stopped short of ruling he was definitely innocent, leaving a prominent 1970s campaign that saw "George Davis is innocent - OK" graffiti daubed across the city only partially vindicated.The case dates back to April 1974, when armed robbers raided the London Electricity Board. A police officer was wounded by a gunshot to the leg. Davis was one of four put on trial the following year, but only he was convicted following two policemen who witnessed the robbery. He received twenty years imprisonment for wounding and armed robbery.By 1976 he was back out of prison with a Royal Pardon after doubts about his identification were raised by then-Home Secretary Roy Jenkins. The 1970s saw the slogan "George Davis is innocent - OK" written across bridges and buildings around the capital, some of which remains today. Support came from The Who frontman Roger Daltrey, who wore a t-shirt promoting his case, and punk band Sham 69 writing a song about it.One incident saw a cricket pitch vandalised in 1975, leading to the abandonment of an Ashes Test match in its final day at Headingley. By 1977, however, Davis was back in prison and admitted a role in a different armed robbery, at a Bank of Cyprus branch."I have been protesting my innocence since 1974," Davis said yesterday. Lawyers have said evidence that should have overturned the 1975 conviction "had been in the hands of the authorities since 1977."Following the conviction the case was reviewed by Detective Chief Superintendent Jack Moulder from Hertfordshire Police, who reported back to the Home Office in 1977. Journalist Andy McSmith, writing in The Independent, claims the result "was so damning that for 34 years the Home Office refused to let anyone, including Davis's lawyers, see it."Moulder's report drew on evidence from Inspector Brian Reynolds, who began the investigation into the robbery before responsibility was passed to the specialist Robbery Squad. Reynolds had criticisms of the Robbery Squad, but said senior officers warned him not to obstruct Davis's conviction in any way. The Robbery Squad was being led by Jack Slipper, whose claim to fame is that he tracked down the Great Train Robbers. The Criminal Cases Review Commission, which investigates alleged miscarriages of justice, collected evidence in the Davis case and referred it back to the Court of Appeal. 36 years ago, a young barrister called David Whitehouse defended Davis. Yesterday, Whitehouse's last day in court before retiring was in the Court of Appeal, hearing Davis's conviction overturned."If George Davis had not been so stupid as to rob a bank I might have got the conviction quashed [in the 70s]," he remarked outside court. Asked about being called stupid, Davis remarked "He can call me what he likes after [all] he's done for me."The appeal was heard by a panel of three judges. Lord Justice Hughes said they were in a "state of ignorance whether or not the defendant committed this robbery and we are unable positively to exonerate him". "We do not know whether Davis was guilty or not, but his conviction cannot be said to be safe," Hughes concluded."I have pursued this appeal for all these years because I wanted all those people who worked for, and helped, the campaign in the 1970s to know that their support was justified," Davis said.Following the ousting of Thailand's Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra from power, those seeking to peacefully protest the imposition of a military junta in the country on May 22 have adopted a gesture found in The Hunger Games book and film series, curling the little finger and thumb into the palm and raising the three middle fingers in the air. Use of the gesture as a form of protest began last weekend in Bangkok, the capital of the country. This form of protest has drawn the attention of Thailand's military junta, the National Council for Peace and Order, who announced its intent on Tuesday to arrest protestors who display the gesture, in violation of orders to stop. Speaking on behalf of the junta, Colonel Weerachon Sukhondhapatipak said to the Associated Press, "At this point we are monitoring the movement. If it is an obvious form of resistance, then we have to control it so it doesn't cause any disorder in the country." In a comment to the Bangkok Post, Thai army Colonel Winthai Suwaree shared a similar sentiment: "[The junta] must look at [the protester's] intention, what they want to communicate and surrounding circumstances".Following the ousting of Thailand's elected government in reportedly the fourteenth coup experienced by the country since the adoption of constitutional monarchy in 1932, the country remains affected by a curfew spanning midnight to 4am, with only Phuket, Koh Samui and Pattaya exempted, as they are beach resorts frequented by tourists, a group for whom the junta made the move in a bid to avoid adverse effects to the country's tourist industry. Nonetheless, in the wake of the coup, the United States Department of State (DoS) advised "U.S. citizens reconsider any non-essential travel to Thailand, particularly Bangkok". The DoS also informed US citizens to stay away from groups of protestors, citing that "even demonstrations that are meant to be peaceful can turn confrontational and escalate into violence." Other restrictions placed on citizens by the junta include internet censorship and restrictions on television broadcasts. Also banned were assemblies of five or more people with political intent.Solitary displays of the gesture was among a few forms of protest utilized by the Thai people in Bangkok on Sunday, amid the placement of almost 6000 soldiers and police officers by the junta in an effort to suppress protests. Other displays of defiance included protestors banding together in flash mobs or peacefully walking through the central shopping district donning masks in an attempt to bypass security forces stationed there.The gesture finds its origins in The Hunger Games series, where it was a sign of thanks, admiration, and farewell to a loved one, later gaining significance, in the second book Catching Fire, as a symbol of rebellion against the totalitarian government of Panem. Protesters, however, have found their own ways of deriving meaning behind the gesture, with some reportedly interpreting it as standing for liberté, égalité, fraternité, values popularized by the French Revolution. A purported alternative interpretation by protesters held the gesture stood for freedom, election, and democracy. Still others have created a photo montage of the gesture with a picture from the source movie, which circulated online, with the caption "1. No Coup, 2. Liberty, 3. Democracy" written on the three extended fingers. Manik Sethisuwan has taken to Twitter with this message: "Dear #HungerGames. We've taken your sign as our own. Our struggle is non-fiction. Thanks."Sombat Boonngam-anong, a social activist who has made efforts to rally the Thai people in continued protest, offered his own interpretation of the gesture on Facebook. "Raising three fingers has become a symbol in calling for fundamental political rights". Sombat belongs to the "Red Shirts", a protest group which has supported Shinawatra's government and the earlier government of Thaksin Shinawatra, her brother, and conducted protests amid prosecution by the junta. Sombat advocated a form of silent protest, raising of their right arms, "3 fingers, 3 times a day" for 30 seconds at 9 a.m., 1 p.m., and 5 p.m., in public locations where police officers and the military are absent. "Let's escalate the anti-coup movement three times a day together," said Sombat. Weerachon expressed awareness of the gesture's origins, stating "We know it comes from the movie, and let's say it represents resistance against the authorities. [...] If a single individual raises three fingers in the air, we are not going to arrest him or her. But if it is a political gathering of five people or more, then we will have to take some action. If it persists, then we will have to make an arrest." On Sunday, protestors were reportedly detained for that reason. The decision to criminalize displays of the gesture have drawn the criticism of Human Rights Watch, stating it expresses "a mindset that views human rights with disdain, and sees youthful defiance as the enemy." Human Rights Watch's Asia director, Brad Adams, remarked: "The Thai military's assault on basic human rights has apparently grown to not only target peaceful protesters but now also silent ones as well — since now just holding up an arm with a three-finger salute is enough to earn the junta's ire".The National Council for Peace and Order has stated it imposed military rule over the country due to political deadlock resulting from demonstrations spanning seven months, which occasionally erupted into violence. Last year, on the volatile political situation in Thailand, scholar Nicholas Farrelly wrote in the Australian Journal of International Affairs: "Each year, Thailand tends to experience at least one period of frenzied coup speculation. Coups clearly still play a major role in Thai mainstream politics."Police briefly cordoned off Mile-End tube station in East London on Saturday morning. A man has been taken away and the alert has now been lifted. This is the latest of many security alerts in London, which is at a high state of alert. further details awaited.A former maths teacher, Duch, age 66, is one of five Khmer Rouge leaders still living who are expected to be charged for the war crimes of the 1975-1979 regime which may have been responsible for the deaths of two million people. Pol Pot, the leader of the Khmer Rouge uprising, died in 1998 which brought a formal surrender and end to the organization.Arrested in 1999, Duch claims to be a born-again Christian and has admitted his personal responsibility for events at Tuol Sleng, though he denies personally torturing or executing prisoners. Prisoners at the camp were routinely tortured to admit they were CIA spies, or admit to other crimes, after which they were killed.It is expected that Duch will participate in the trial, addressing charges that he oversaw the torture and execution of more than 15,000 individuals, both Cambodians and foreigners."A confession is a good thing for Duch to do. If Duch pleads guilty, I will be eased in my heart," said former Tuol Sleng prisoner Vann Nath. Nath was spared at the prison for his value as an artist. "We will get a kind of justice — not compensation — but justice that can heal our mind when the court convicts Duch and he receives the punishment."Some victims wish for more, and more than just these five leaders. Rob Hamill of New Zealand, whose brother Kerry and friends John Dewhurst of the British Isles and Stuart Glass of Canada were arrested, detained, tortured, and killed after their sailboat passed into Cambodian waters, spoke of the pain and grief in his family with ThePress.co.nz. "I often think about how things could have been better. Not that things are terrible, but you know having Kerry in our lives would have [been better]."The court does not have the ability to impose the death penalty, but it can impose a life sentence on Duch. The defense appears ready to ask for a reduced sentence in exchange for Duch's confession.Cryptome.org, a US-based website, has published a list of 74 individuals[1] claimed to be members of the British "Secret Intelligence Service", MI6. Many are serving members of the UK Foreign Office, including 18 Ambassadors. The leak of a similar list in 1999 led to the prosecution of a former MI6 agent, Richard Tomlinson. The source for this latest leak is referred to only as "A". Earlier this year New York Times reporter Judith Miller was jailed for refusing to name the US-government source who identified a member of the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Valerie Plame.A general statement on the Cryptome.org web site states: "Cryptome welcomes documents for publication that are prohibited by governments worldwide, in particular material on freedom of expression, privacy, cryptology, dual-use technologies, national security, intelligence, and secret governance — open, secret and classified documents — but not limited to those. Documents are removed from this site only by order served directly by a US court having jurisdiction. No court order has ever been served; any order served will be published here — or elsewhere if gagged by order."Andrew Martinez, a former student at the University of California at Berkeley who was better known as "The Naked Guy" in the early 1990s, committed suicide on Thursday.  He was 33.Guards at the Santa Clara County Jail reportedly found Martinez unconscious in a jail cell, with a plastic bag cinched around his neck, at about 11:19 p.m. Wednesday. Martinez was taken to a local hospital where was pronounced dead early Thursday.  He had been incarcerated since January 10 on charges of battery and assault with a deadly weapon.  Martinez is best known for attending his classes in the nude in the fall of 1992.  He became an instant celebrity, appearing on national television talk shows where he defended his practice as a form of free speech and a challenge to sexual repression in Western society.Martinez was eventually expelled from UC Berkeley for violating the school's code of conduct, and Berkeley city officials passed a strict anti-nudity ordinance.Family and acquaintances report that Martinez had been suffering from undetermined mental illness over the past decade for which he never found comprehensive treatment, and had been in and out of halfway houses, psychiatric institutions, and jail.Said close acquaintance Bryan Schwartz, a civil rights lawyer in Washington, D.C., "He was a person with tremendous gifts and charisma who could have been a great asset to our society, but instead I feel like society -- me included -- failed him.  It's such a waste."On Thursday, Congress turned down the "Net Neutrality Amendment" to the Communications Opportunity, Promotion, and Enhancement Act (COPE Act) 269-152. The COPE Act is designed to make it easier for telecommunications companies to offer cable TV service and strengthen competition. Proponents hope it would lower the price of high-speed Internet for consumer by enabling Internet service providers to bundle phone, data, video and mobile phone services. The act is the first major telecommunications bill to come before Congress in over a decade, and it passed by 321-101 vote on Thursday.Portions of the "Net Neutrality" amendment to the COPE Act sought to assure that communication companies who provide Internet services treated all data delivery passing through their connections equally.  It specified that each broadband provider has the duty "not to block, impair, degrade, discriminate against, or interfere with the ability of any person to use a broadband connection to access, use, send, receive, or offer lawful content, applications, or services over the Internet." The amendment's passage would have prevented AT&T, Verizon, Comcast and other broadband providers from charging content providers like Google, Yahoo, Amazon or eBay for priority access to their networks. Democrats were largely in favour of the legislation with 140 Ayes and 58 Noes, whereas only 11 Republicans voted for the measure, with 211 against.House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi argued that "The imposition of additional fees for Internet content providers would unduly burden Web-based small businesses and start-ups," and that "They would also hamper communications by noncommercial users, those using religious speech, promoting civic involvement and exercising First Amendment freedoms."The phone companies and their Congressional allies argued that the restrictions in the amendment would discourage investment in upgrading networks. Chief technology officer for BellSouth William L. Smith told the Washington Post that telephone companies should be able to charge companies for having their content load faster than that of competitors. "If I go to the airport, I can buy a coach standby ticket or a first-class ticket," Smith said. "In the shipping business, I can get two-day air or six-day ground."The legislation has been subject to intense lobbying by telecommunication companies on one side, and content providers on the other. The bill is due to be discussed next in the Senate, where lobbying efforts from both sides are expected to intensify. The White House said that it supports the current bill.Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab pleaded 'not guilty' to charges of attempting to blow up Northwest Airlines Flight 253 before a court in the United States today. The charges stem from an attempt to bomb a passenger jet as it neared the city of Detroit.The charges include 289 counts of attempted murder, attempted use of a weapon of mass destruction, willful attempt to destroy and wreck an aircraft within the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States, willfully placing a destructive device in, upon and in proximity to an aircraft within the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States, and two counts of possession of a firearm/destructive in furtherance of a crime of violence. If convicted Abdulmutallab faces life in prison.US Attorney Barbara L. McQuade, said that "The attempted murder of 289 innocent people merits the most serious charges available, and that's what we have charged in this indictment,".Northwest Flight 253 departed Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, the Netherlands on December 25 bound for Metro Airport in Detroit, Michigan. During the flight, Abdulmutallab allegedly attempted to use plastic explosives which consisted of of Pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN) and Triacetone triperoxide (TATP) along with other ingredients  concealed in his undergarments to bring down the aircraft. The device apparently failed, resulting only in flames coming from his seat and loud popping sounds. Passenger Jasper Schuringa, along with others, restrained Abdulmutallab for the rest of the flight after which he was taken into custody by federal agents. The incident caused rapid changes in airport security around the world, and also in US intelligence services.Lydia Playfoot, a 16 year old schoolgirl from West Sussex, England, has been faced with expulsion by her school, Millais School of Horsham, for wearing a purity ring that symbolises her dedication to chastity. Her case, that she should be allowed to wear the ring as it is an "expression of [her] faith and should be exempt from the school's rules on wearing jewelery", was taken to the High Court on Friday. Judgement in the case was reserved for a future date.This case echoes a decision in a case last year. The Law Lords rejected Shabina Begum's, former pupil of Denbigh High School, in Luton, Bedfordshire, appeal to wear a Muslim Jilbab to school.Miss Playfoot spoke to BBC Radio regarding the case. She said "Muslims are allowed to wear headscarves and other faiths can wear bangles and other types of jewellery. It feels like Christians are being discriminated against." Her lawyers have argued that her right to wear the ring as a symbol of faith is upheld by the Human Rights Act 1998A police official in Mumbai has warned four suspected militants of Pakistani origin have entered the city, the capital of Maharashtra, India, and claims they are plotting attacks in the city. Police are now searching for the four people, thought to be members of Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), the Islamic fundamentalist militant group the Indian government holds responsible for the coordinated attacks which hit Mumbai in 2008. Joint police commissioner Himanshu Roy says intelligence suggests "the threat is serious."A United States counter-terrorism official said the attacks are likely imminent, and will occur over the Christmas and New Year period. "There's no question LeT remains interested in pulling off another large-scale attack in India," the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity, "and we are alert to the possibility that LeT might again try a holiday attack."Speaking at a press conference, Roy said "[t]hey have recently arrived in Mumbai. We are not in a position to reveal their nationalities now but they are LeT members."Armed police have been posted around high-profile destinations in the city, and roads around the Taj Mahal Palace hotel—seiged by militants in the 2008 attacks—have been closed. Police have released a sketch of one of the militants believed to be in the city."The police [are] on high alert all over the city. We cannot take any of these intelligence inputs lightly in the holiday season," another Mumbai official said. "Since yesterday, we are checking all the possible hideouts, small lodges and guesthouses, railway stations. We are checking all the vehicles that are coming into the city."166 people died and hundreds more were injured in the 2008 attacks, in which multiple gunmen attacked the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus railway station, a hospital, a police station, and numerous hotels, amongst other sites. The attacks were dubbed "India's 9/11" by local media. Only one militant survived the attacks, Ajmal Amir Kasab; in May this year he was sentenced to death by hanging, on 86 charges, including murder, terrorism, and waging war against India.At approximately 1600 EST (2100 UTC) a suspicious package was found near the baggage claim at Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia, United States, leading to the closure of around half of the terminal. Police later determined that the package was harmless and reopened the affected areas of the airport. Parts of the airport had been closed for two hours before being reopened.Officials from the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority said a canine unit was attracted to an unattended piece of baggage near the baggage claim. They did not disclose what the package contained, but an official said the package did not look similar to other suspicious packages sent to Maryland state government buildings earlier today.Due to the package, four baggage claims and a United Airlines ticket counter were temporarily vacated. Flights continued to operate at the airport during the investigation.At least ten attackers with knives, dressed in black, attacked a train station in Kunming, China yesterday. At least 28 victims were killed, with 113 more wounded by knives, Chinese state news agency Xinhua reported. The local municipal government accuses "Xinjiang separatist forces" for the attack. Xinhua called the attack "an organized, premeditated violent terrorist attack". One suspect was arrested, while four or five suspects were shot dead.Yang Haifei, a local resident, told Xinhua the attackers rushed in and began attacking people while he was buying a ticket. "I saw a person come straight at me with a long knife and I ran away with everyone," he said, while people who were slower were attacked and "fell on the ground". Preparations are underway for an annual legislature meeting, at which president Xi Jinping as well as his government are to deliver their first one-year work report on Wednesday. Xi Jinping states there should be "all out efforts" to apprehend the attackers, while the Ministry of Public Security's Security Management Bureau stated law enforcement will "crack down the crimes in accordance with the law without any tolerance." He calls for severe punishments "in accordance with the law", as well as to "crack down on those who have been swollen with arrogance".China has also blamed a suicide attack in Tiananmen Square late last year, in Beijing, on the separatists.Matthew Wright, host of British television programme The Wright Stuff, has apologised for remarks he made on the show in relation to the murder of Liam Aitchison.On the edition of the Channel 5 programme broadcast on Tuesday, the murder of Liam Aitchison was being examined as part of a newspaper review segment. At this point, Wright said the words "there's been another murder" while using a false Scottish accent, as a reference to the UK television crime drama Taggart. Charlie Baker, who appeared on the panel alongside Wright, remarked that the investigation into Aitchison's death would be like "the longest episode of Taggart of all time". The audience can be heard to be laughing at this point. "There's a lot of downtime in between," Baker continued.In the statement, the family of Liam Aitchison found what they called the "insensitive and offensive nature of the comments made" to be "very upsetting and insulting for, not just the family, but for the whole community of the Western Isles." On the website for The Wright Stuff, Liam Aitchison's father Norman wrote a comment which read: "Would your panel members be making a joke of this if it was one of their own children? My son's death is no joke and I am disgusted with every single one of you on that panel. Let my son rest in peace".On the edition of The Wright Stuff broadcast yesterday, Wright said he would "like to apologise" if any viewers had been offended by his comments. "Certainly, no intention on my part to belittle the seriousness, or the tragedy of this story, or to offend anyone who knew Liam," Wright clarified. "You know me, I have been touched by death too many times to belittle anything like that." Channel 5 believe that Wright had made his apology "clear", according to a spokeswoman for the channel. However, Wright mentioned that he had "[n]ot [been] helped by people running campaigns 'report Matthew Wright to Ofcom'," a UK media regulator. He advised such people to "grow up".Channel 5 subsequently revoked access to Tuesday's episode of The Wright Stuff from its on demand service. The comments have also been removed from their website.Angus MacNeil, the MP for Na h-Eileanan an Iar, described the behaviour of Wright as "beyond belief" and told of his intention to complain to Ofcom. The comments "disgusted everyone," MacNeil said. Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, a local authority within the islands, has complained to Ofcom. A page on the social networking website Facebook, entitled 'Report The Wright Stuff to Ofcom', has attracted in excess of two thousand likes. Ofcom is currently "in the process of assessing those complaints", according to a spokesperson. As of yet, the regulator has not "made any decision to investigate those complaints at this stage", although the concept of an investigation is currently a possibility.Earlier this month, the Northern Constabulary, which has not made any statement regarding this matter, launched a murder inquiry in the aftermath of Liam Aitchison's death, having considered his death to be as the result of a murder following an autopsy. He was last sighted in the town of Stornoway on November 22 of this year. His remains were found in an abandoned building in Steinish on November 29.A jury last week cleared four officers from London's Metropolitan Police of assaulting a Muslim arrested on suspicion of al-Qaeda involvement. After trial their lawyer described the charge as "unfounded and unsubstantiated" – but in 2009 the police said Babar Ahmed, 34, had suffered "a serious, gratuitous and prolonged" assault.Ahmed has been previously paid £60,000 in a civil case, which the jury was unaware of. After one hour of deliberations, they acquited Pc Roderick James-Bowen, 40; Pc Mark Jones, 43; Pc Nigel Cowley, 34; and Detective Constable John Donohue, 37, of assault occasioning actual bodily harm.The four officers claimed at trial that Ahmed's wounds were either self-inflicted or caused during legal restraint during his December 2003 capture. They said he had fought hard against arrest. The prosecutor contended the four officers, from the specialist Territorial Support Group, "punched and [beat Ahmed] on the floor," calling him a "fucking bastard" and a "fucking cunt.""On the floor the assault continued as his wife called out for the police to stop," Jonathan Laidlaw, prosecuting, told the jury. This was followed, he claimed, by a visit to Ahmed's prayer room, where he was positioned as if praying and asked "Where is your god now? Pray to him."The prosecution alleged further abuse against Ahmed in a police van en route to the police station, with Ahmed saying at Charing Cross police station he was attacked again in an area not covered by CCTV surveillance. He was left, in the words of Laidlaw, with "areas of bruising, reddening and grazes to [his] head and neck, bruising to the chest, areas of bruising to [his] back, extensive bruising and grazing of the arms. In effect, there were injuries all over the victim's body."The defence noted that MI5 bugged Ahmed's house and a recording of the arrest failed to show elements of the alleged attack. James-Bowen told the court of a "ferocious" fight with Ahmed, who used "significant force." Jones told the jury his superiors had informed him Ahmed had been trained in both armed and unarmed fighting.Less than a year earlier, a similar operation in Manchester resulted in an officer stabbed to death by a suspect now serving life in prison. The four officers dealing with Ahmed had been warned their suspect posed a similar threat.Speaking outside court, their solicitor, Colin Reynolds said the men were now able to "[get] on with their professional lives" following the dismissal by the jury of "unfounded and unsubstantiated allegations." Local media had been barred during trial from reporting that, between the two of them, Jones and James-Bowen had been accused of a total 40 assaults from 1993 to 2007, all of which have been rejected. Jones was previously tried for assaulting two teens in the back of a police van and yelling racist abuse at them, but was cleared.Fiona Murphy, who represents Ahmed, was critical of the Independent Police Complaints Commission. "We now call upon the IPCC to put its abject failures in relation to this case to one side and to give proper consideration to the misconduct aspects." Ahmed released a statement, saying, "Today's verdict means that no police officer has been held to account for this abuse. Therefore I urge the Metropolitan police to bring disciplinary proceedings against all officers who were personally involved in the assault – and those who turned a blind eye." His father read it out at a post-trial press conference. Ahmed was never charged, but was re-arrested in 2004 and has spent the last seven years in custody facing extradition to the US. The US seeks to try him for fundraising for militancy amid claims he is a member of al-Qaeda; though initially a ruling in favour of extradition was reached an appeal is pending.Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC, who oversaw the trial, expressed support for Ahmed's position detained without trial: "I express the hope that his ordeal as a man in detention in this country for a number of years without trial is brought to an end as soon as possible, either by his extradition or by his release. It is no concern of this court as to which, but it is a matter of concern and I would have thought should be a matter of concern to the public at large, quite apart from Mr Ahmed, that here is a man who has been in custody for literally years without knowing what his fate is to be."A "very dangerous" inmate whose convictions include rape and murder has escaped from Tembisa Hospital in South Africa. 29-year-old Andries Gamba Msimang, from Mozambique, absconded on Friday.Jailed in September 2009, Msimang "is serving a life sentence for murder, robbery, rape and house breaking with intent to rob and kidnap," says the Department of Correctional Services. The Department urges the public to summon police help if they see the escapee and not attempt to apprehend him themselves.The Department further explained the man has been in hospital since Tuesday when he suffered a stroke. Two corrections officers left to guard the prisoner in hospital have been suspended and their employer says they "may face charges of gross negligence and dereliction of responsibility."Police and the Department of Corrections are working together to try and return the killer to custody.A report by the Chinese government states corruption is "very serious". Officials, it says, have investigated over 240,000 cases in the past seven years including bribery and embezzlement.The document, released by state news agency Xinhua, states although "notable" steps have been made towards fighting corruption, attempts to flush out corrupt citizens need to be more effective. The report further warns of corruption within government, noting new regulations ordering government officials to report investment and income. It also praises the Internet and the media for exposing corruption. In recent years China has launched several campaigns against corrupt practices, but a Chinese anti-corruption researcher told Xinhua the report indicated the Chinese government now have "a more open and cooperative attitude toward the problem."There have been several high profile cases of corruption in the country over the past several years; this year the highest ranking justice official in Chongqing, Wen Qiang, was executed for accepting bribes, shielding criminal gangs and rape, and in 2008 a powerful party boss was jailed for 18 years for involvement in a pension fund scandal.Although the report notes efforts have been taken to stamp down on corruption in China, it adds ridding it completely will be difficult. "Since the relevant mechanisms and systems are still incomplete, corruption persists, with some cases even involving huge sums of money," it states. "The situation in combating corruption is still very serious, and the tasks are still abundant."Four officers from London's Metropolitan Police went on trial today accused of repeatedly beating a Muslim arrested on suspicion of helping "terrorist organisations operating abroad." The men deny assaulting Babar Ahmad, 36, in his home, in a police van and in a police station.The assault charges stem from the December 2003 arrest in the city's south-west. Less than a year earlier a similar operation in Manchester had seen an officer stabbed to death by a suspect now serving life in prison. Jonathan Laidlaw, prosecuting, told the jury in Southwark Crown Court the officers had likely been informed Ahmad had militant training and involvement in overseas fighting. The police team was from the specialist Territorial Support Group.Whilst acknowledging fears Ahmed, who was released without charge, could pose a threat, Laidlaw rejects this actually being the case upon arrival at his home. Woken from sleeping beside his wife at 05:00 by calls of "police, police", "[d]ressed only in his pyjamas and barefooted, Mr Ahmad raised his arms above his head to indicate that he was not going to fight or to present any sort of danger or threat to the police," claims Laidlaw. Police Constable Roderick James-Bowen, 40, was first into the room and knocked Ahmed back into a window, breaking it. Laidlaw had "no complaint" about this action but when "entirely submissive" Ahmed was handcuffed "[t]he defendants subjected him to a sustained and very violent assault - in effect they gave him a beating or they beat him up."The prosecutor contends the four officers - PC James-Bowen alongside PCs Nigel Cowley, 33, and Mark Jones, 43, and Detective Constable John Donohue, 36 - "punched and [beat Ahmed] on the floor". The accused are said to have called Ahmed a "fucking bastard" and a "fucking cunt". "On the floor the assault continued as his wife called out for the police to stop," Laidlaw continued. This was followed, he claims, by a visit to Ahmed's prayer room, where he was positioned as if praying and asked "Where is your god now?"As part of the investigation into suspicions Amhed led a group "providing logistical support, financial assistance, recruits and computer expertise" to foreign militant groups, MI5 bugged the house. The jury was played a ten minute recording covering the arrest in which shouts, screams and apparent muffled commands were heard.There followed a transfer via police van to Charing Cross police station. In the back of the van "[t]he officer sitting nearest to Mr Ahmad's head asked him where he was born and when he replied London, that officer punched him in the back of the head. The same officer then lifted Mr Ahmad's upper body and held him in a headlock with both arms. After releasing him [the officer] said: 'You fucking cunt, you'll remember this day for the rest of your life.'"At the police station Ahmed says he was led to an area unviewed by CCTV cameras and punched and kicked. He was presented in "a collapsing state" to the custody sergeant who was told Ahmed had been violent and resisted arrest. However, the custody sergeant was quoted in court as hearing screams at the police station. "I would describe the screaming as what I believed was a man and that he was in prolonged discomfort and pain. It was definitely the sound of pain and not of him shouting out," Laidlaw quoted the sergeant.The officers are accused by the prosecution of having "lied" about any resistance offered by Ahmed, who was left with "areas of bruising, reddening and grazes to [his] head and neck, bruising to the chest, areas of bruising to [his] back, extensive bruising and grazing of the arms. In effect, there were injuries all over the victim's body."Ahmed was re-arrested in 2004 and has spent the last seven years in custody facing extradition to the US. The US seeks to try him for fundraising for militancy amid claims he is a member of al-Qaeda; though initially a ruling in favour of extradition was reached an appeal is pending.One person is dead and 13 others, including 5 members of the Garda Síochána, Ireland's police force, are injured following the pursuit of a stolen bus throughout the south of Dublin city and county. A driver who was not authorised to take the vehicle early in the morning of May 7 stole the coach from the yard of private hire operator Dualway. The bus was later located at Dublin Heuston railway station by the coach company, where the driver attempted to run over the son of the owner of Dualway.The driver then returned to the Dualway depot in Rathcoole in what developed in to a high speed pursuit involving up to 20 patrol cars and a police helicopter. The Gardaí fired several shots at the driver's tires in an attempt to stop the car, as well as laying tacks. The bus was driven down the wrong side of the N7 Naas road, where it collided with a number of cars, killing a female driver, and rammed five Garda patrol cars that were blocking the road. The driver was apprehended and arrested at the Dualway depot after crashing the bus.Sections of the N7 as well as surrounding roads were closed following the incident for forensic examinations, and the Luas tram services were severely curtailed.Almost 1,000 people have been arrested in Iraq as part of a crackdown against al-Qaeda in Mosul, the nation's third-largest city.Troops have gone out into the surrounding countryside seeking many more who have fled into the countryside. It is hoped that Mosul, one of al-Qaeda's most prominent strongholds, will now be rid of the group but it is feared that unless the remaining suspects are caught they will simply regroup elsewhere, as they have been known to do before.Yassin Majid, an adviser to Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, said most of the leaders had fled, some to an unnamed neighbouring country. About 60 miles from Mosul are borders with Syria and Turkey. "Operations will continue and the Iraqi army will not leave Mosul until security and stability have been accomplished," he said.Mark P. Hertling, head of US operations in North Iraq, who has troops involved in the operation, said he didn't believe large numbers were still at large since the Thursday launch of the operation, but added that many of the leaders may have fled before it began to avoid arrest. "It's been very successful. I think the combination of the arrests plus the uncovering of a number of weapons caches will reduce the number of attacks in Mosul." he said. The city is now surrounded by barriers and checkpoints and is being searched by troops, but no fighting has been reported yet.1,068 arrests were reported by Interior Minister Jawad al-Bolani, who added that 94 have been cleared and released. Hertling said several of these were in high and mid-level positions in the command structure of al-Qaeda. Some of these are said to be suicide bomb cell leaders and people who arranged for foreign fighters to enter Iraq.The Prime Minister has promised an amnesty to fighters who surrender their weapons provided they have not killed civilians.Ten American soldiers were killed when a CH-47 Chinook helicopter crashed near the Afghanistan-Pakistan border close to a landing zone in the Kunar province. A military spokesman said it crashed while conducting combat operations. The Soldiers were involved with Operation Mountain Lion, which is aimed at rooting out al-Qaeda and former Taliban militants."The remains of all the 10 soldiers have been found and there are no survivors. There is no indication that the helicopter came down due to some enemy action. Additional aircraft and crews were also at the landing zone and confirmed that enemy forces did not cause the crash," said Lt. Tamara D. Lawrence, a spokeswoman for the U.S. military.However; Muhamad Hanif, a Taliban spokesman, said that the crash was the result of the Taliban. He also said that advanced weaponry was used to shoot down helicopters."We have no indication that that happened," said Lawrence in response to Hanif's claim. "The crash occurred in a very mountainous terrain and the landing zone was very difficult. It was a mountain-top landing zone. There were various weather factors that could have come into play…. There were high winds. We are investigating any possible causes for the accident but there were no enemy actions detected at the scene," she added.In June of 2005, Taliban forces brought down a Chinook in the same province, which killed all American soldiers onboard. According to the military, rocket-propelled grenades were used in that attack.There are at least 20,000 coalition forces in Afghanistan; 18,000 of them are American soldiers. At least 2,500 of the American soldiers are also involved with Operation Mountain Lion.Ten people have been arrested over a school fire in Uganda over possible negligence on their parts. The news comes as the death toll in the fire reaches 20 schoolgirls. Earlier reports also say two adults died, but later sources make no mention of this.Police spokeswoman Judith Nabakooba said the matron of the dormitory that caught fire and the guards at the Budo girl's school were arrested, but provided no details of their alleged role in the April 14 disaster. However, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni previously commented that there are "signs that there was negligence by the school administration." Nabakooba also announced a police reward of US$3,000 for more information on the blaze, although it is unclear if the value was given in Ugandan shillings or if the dollar is being used as an alternative currency.58 girls are thought to have been in the dorm at the time, which had been locked from the outside. Some mannaged to escape by wriggling through narrow windows. By the time fire services reached the scene, 15 kilometres from Kampala, most of the dorm had already been desroyed by the intense fire.It has been suggested by police that the fire may have been a vengeful act of arson, based on preliminary investigations, mainly interviews with eyewitnesses to the fire. Police Inspector General Kale Kaihura described the initial indications as pointing to "homicide".A Friday prayer service for the victims, spoken at by Anglican Bishop Samuel Balagadde Sekadde, was attended by thousands. Sekradde spoke of an act of heroism by 10-year-old Yvonne Namaganda, who was able to rescue six of her fellows before poisnonous fumes overcame her upon her return for a seventh.An estimated 10,000 conscientious objectors chose to withhold some or all of their U.S. income taxes due Monday, April 17, in protest to the use of US military power in Iraq. Some plan to instead donate their required tax to charity.The Internal Revenue Service does not distinguish tax resistors from any other person behind on their taxes, and will apply the same fines and interest used against the other Americans who do not pay their taxes on time. Legal action is possible for extreme cases, but more commonly the IRS uses wage or bank account garnishing.The tax protestors are well aware of these risks, yet refuse to pay on principle. Jim Allen, who served in the Army for 20 years and now teaches at St. Louis University, acknowledges that he will likely end up paying more due to the fines than he is refusing to pay today.  "I am not opposed to paying taxes, but I am when such a large percent is going to pay for war.  Sooner or later, they're going to get their money, but until that happens, I'm going to continue protesting. This is too important not to."  Allen and his wife withheld $1300 - or 42% of what the couple owes the IRS, estimating this to be the proportion of his taxes that would otherwise go to military spending.Other protestors simply refuse to file at all.  Becky Pierce of Boston fills out a 1040 to determine her tax, but then donates that amount to charity without filing.  Pierce says she follows in the footsteps of American protesters like Henry David Thoreau, a protester of the Mexican-American War who went to jail rather than pay taxes.  "You need to have control of your money," Pierce says. "I'm a self-employed carpenter. No one is reporting what I make. That's why I can go unnoticed."Police in Florida, United States, are looking for a 10-year-old boy who was last seen in the back seat of a car that was later carjacked. Authorities at the Broward County sheriff's office say that Louis Gonzalez was with his stepfather when his stepfather was forced out of the car by an armed suspect. Another suspect was also at the scene at the time of the crime. Both suspects were males.Gonzalez's stepfather had just came from the area bank.The car was hijacked at about 12:40 p.m. today at the corner of McNab Road and Andrews Avenue in Pompano Beach, Florida.An Amber Alert has been issued for the boy.He was last seen wearing a No. 3 Dwayne Wade Miami Heat jersey with red shorts. The boy was also wearing black Adidas sandals with black socks.Police are also looking for the missing car, a 2007 grey Nissan Maxima. The car is said to have temporary plates on it and is also said to have tinted windows and a sunroof.Kayla Concepcion of the Broward County sheriff's office said, "The most important thing we want out right now is the information that will help find this boy."The boys mother has been contacted.Anyone with information about the case should contact the Broward County sheriff's office at (1)-954-765-4321 or call 911.Police in Purcell, Oklahoma, about 40 miles (64 km) south of Oklahoma City, on Friday discovered the mutilated body of a ten-year-old girl in the apartment of a man who lived in the same apartment complex.The body of Jamie Rose Bolin was found in a storage bin in the bedroom closet of Kevin Underwood, 26, said Tim Kuykendall, district attorney for McClain County.  Underwood has been arrested on suspicion of first-degree murder and is being held without bail.  He has no criminal record or history of mental illness.The girl was last seen on Wednesday near the Purcell public library, and her family reported her missing that night.  Officials waited until Thursday night to issue an Amber Alert because no abduction was reported.Underwood reportedly drew the suspicion of law enforcement at an information checkpoint set up at the apartment complex.  Among the other items found in Underwood's apartment were a decorative dagger, a hacksaw, barbecue skewers, meat tenderizer, and a wooden cutting board, according to police.Preliminary autopsy reports find that the girl died of asphyxiation and blunt force trauma to the head.  Deep saw marks found on the body indicate that the suspect attempted to decapitate the girl, say authorities.  As the body was found unclothed, police also suspect that Bolin was molested after she died."Regarding a potential motive, this appears to have been part of a plan to kidnap a person, rape them, torture them, kill them, cut off their head, drain the body of blood, rape the corpse, eat the corpse, then dispose of the organs and bones," Purcell police chief David Tompkins said.According to Kuykendall, Underwood said he began fantasizing about eating someone a year ago. The prosecutor added that authorities believe "that while she was ultimately chosen to be the victim of this horrific crime, that other people had been targeted and considered," including a woman and a 5-year-old boy.  He added that this was one of the most atrocious crimes he had seen as district attorney, and that he intends to seek the death penalty.Yesterday, over one hundred tons of ivory was burned in Kenya. The elephant ivory's estimated worth on the black market was about $170 million and the rhinoceros ivory's around $70 million. The fire was lighted by the Kenyan president, Uhuru Kenyatta.Celebrities Kristin Davis, Leonardo DiCaprio, Nicole Kidman, George Soros, and Elton John were also there.Kenya Wildlife Service director Kihili Mbathi says the ivory has no worth for them. Only the living animals matter. Kenya, Tanzania, and other countries heavily affected by illegal hunting of elephants have varying policies on this matter. Tanzania saves every piece of ivory, while Kenyans burn the monetarily valuable ivory each year. Mbathi also says the burning of ivory is meant to stimulate discussion of a global ban against all ivory buying and selling.A protest against the Church of Scientology organized by the Internet-based group "Anonymous" held in Orlando, Florida drew 100 people on Saturday.The group "Anonymous" formed a movement called Project Chanology in response to what it views as suppression of freedom of speech on the Internet by the Church of Scientology. The group was initially motivated by the Church of Scientology's attempts to remove a promotional video featuring Scientologist Tom Cruise from the Internet. The Church of Scientology issued legal complaints to YouTube and to Gawker.com; YouTube took the video down, but Gawker has refused to do so.Project Chanology participants successfully took down several Scientology websites in mid-January utilizing denial-of-service attacks. The group has organized a series of nonviolent protests to take place outside Church of Scientology centers worldwide on February 10, 2008. There are expected to be at least 217 protests taking place on the 10th outside Church of Scientology buildings around the globe, including New York City, Montreal, Houston, London, Melbourne, and Los Angeles.Protestors at the Orlando, Florida rally held signs with messages including "Knowledge is Free Scientology Isn't", "Who Is Lisa McPherson?", "www.xenu.net", and "Honk if you hate Scientology." An unnamed organizer of the rally told the Orlando Sentinel that the group is protesting "a gross violation of the right to see free church material," referring to the Tom Cruise video the Church of Scientology attempted to suppress. According to WKMG-TV, protestors claim the Church of Scientology is a "dangerous cult" and said the organization is responsible for crimes and deaths. Dr. Lee Sheldon of the Church of Scientology of Orlando released a statement regarding the protests: "While we recognize the right to legal protest, when such protest escalates to spreading lies and hate speech, it is a concern for everyone. We look forward to continuing to provide service to the city of Orlando and Central Florida." According to a post from a protestor to the online newsgroup alt.religion.scientology, Scientologists complained to the police during the protest that the event should be shut down for advocating "hate speech", but the Orlando Sentinel reported that police monitored the event and made no arrests.Mark Bunker of XenuTV.com had previously criticized Project Chanology for the denial-of-service attacks against Scientology websites, but in a YouTube video post on Sunday, Bunker spoke positively of Saturday's nonviolent protest in Florida. "I saw a video today from Orlando and there were a hundred and fifty people out on Saturday to protest and it looked like a lot of fun. Got a lot of car honks and everything looked peaceful and I want to say nice job and I hope everything goes as smoothly on February 10th. I have to say a hundred and fifty people in Orlando that's pretty impressive. Can't wait to see what happens at other cities around the country and around the world actually."Police said that the letters all appear to come from the same source but they have not released the actual letters yet.  The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department is investigating, but nothing suspicious has been found at the hospitals.Security has increased ahead of an upcoming September 11 general election.Eleven people have died after a military helicopter crashed during an anti-narcotics flight in Western Mexico. The Bell 212 went down near Uruapan in Michoacan.Michoacan is a major area in Mexico's anti-narcotics operations, which are conducted by the nation's military. The rotorcraft went down around midday. Police cordoned off the scene and forensic officers have moved in to examine the site. The Defense Department is investigating.A statement by the military confirmed the crash. "There are 11 men dead, including a colonel, and one soldier was injured," said a state attorney general's office spokesman. The wounded soldier, who was the sole survivor, was flown to a Mexico City military hospital, and remains there in a serious condition.Although authorities released no crash details, witnesses say the helicopter lost power during attempts to land. "The motor stopped and the helicopter plummeted to the ground," said one local resident named Agustin Vargas. The flight had been headed to a marijuana field with the intention of raiding it.Charges have been laid against 11 of the 23 suspects being detained by British police for an alleged plot to blow up several trans-Atlantic airliners.Eight men were charged with conspiracy to commit murder and preparing acts of terrorism, said Peter Clarke, deputy commissioner of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch during a news conference in London, Monday. The eight are Abdullah Ahmed Ali, 25, Tanvir Hussain, 25, Umar Islam, 28, Arafat Waheed Khan, 25, Assad Ali Sarwar, 26, Adam Khatib, 19, Ibrahim Savant 25, and Waheed Zaman, 22.Two others were charged with failing to disclose information about potential acts of terrorism, whilst a 17-year-old is charged with possession of articles useful to a person preparing acts of terrorism under Section Five of the Terrorism Act, 2006.A woman was released without charges being laid leaving an additional 11 suspects in custody without charges, according to the Crown Prosecution Service.The suspects have been in detention since August 10 when they were arrested in connection with an alleged plot to set off explosives on at least 10 flights between the United States and the United Kingdom. Susan Hemming, head of the CPS counter terrorism division, said the alleged plot was to "manufacture and smuggle the component parts of improvised explosive devices on to aircraft and assemble and detonate them on board".An 11-year-old boy has died after being shot in the car park of the Fir Tree pub in the Croxteth area of Liverpool, shortly after 1930 BST. An eyewitness, who had been drinking outside the pub at the time, said the boy was one of three playing football in the car park when a teenager, believed to be male, on a BMX bicycle fired three shots at the group from approximately 30 metres away, one hitting the victim in the neck. The other shots missed the boys, one hitting a car. The boy's mother was called to the scene as people came out of the pub to help him. Other witnesses have suggested the incident may be gang-related.A spokesman for North West Ambulance Service said: "We treated an 11-year-old with serious gunshot wounds." He added the boy was taken to Alder Hey Children's Hospital, but police later confirmed he had died. Officers have sealed off the scene, including a neighbouring street of shops. There have currently been no arrests in connection with the shooting.In an appeal to the local community to help catch the killer, Merseyside Police Assistant Chief Constable Simon Byrne said: "Someone out there knows who put the gun in his hand and I want your help to get the community to turn that gunman in tonight. This is quite an awful crime, quite senseless, and the community holds the clue to solving this crime quickly. You can only imagine the heartache of the family that's been ripped apart."Local councillor Rose Bailey, who lives nearby, also appealed for people with information to come forward, saying: "It sends shockwaves through the community of Croxteth and really it must be devastating. To think your young son is out playing football and then to get a call to say he's been shot, I really don't know as a parent how you would handle that."The area around the pub was made a "designated area" by police last year, meaning officers could disperse groups and move people away from the area.The incident is another in a growing list of shootings of minors, many gang-related, in the UK's major cities in 2007.An 11-year-old girl faces serious assault charges in California after casting a stone at a group of boys who were throwing water balloons at her.  In April, Maribel Cuevas was apprehended by Fresno, California police and spent five days in a detention center after throwing the object at the group of boys who bombarded her with water balloons as she walked down the sidewalk.  A 9-year-old boy was hit with the stone, and suffered a wound to his head requiring medical assistance.Since then, Cuevas has spent one month under house arrest pending court.  Cuevas' lawyer, Richard Beshwate, told the BBC that "They [Fresno police] are treating her like a violent parole offender.  It's not a felony, it's an 11-year-old acting like an 11-year-old."Fresno Police Sergeant Anthony Martinez told reporters: "We responded. We determined a felony assault had taken place and the officers took the actions that were necessary."  Cuevas is due back in court next month on felony assault charges.The girl was placed in juvenile hall during her five-day detention, with only one 30-minute visit from her parents. She was then placed under a 30 day house arrest and required to wear an electronic monitoring bracelet. The house arrest allowed the girl to attend school.Maribel, who knows very little English, said that the boy initiated the conflict — the boy also admitted as much.An 11-year old daughter of an Afghan widow was abducted, raped and then traded in exchange for a dog and a sum of cash by warlords in Aliabad district of Kondoz province in north of Afghanistan, the mother alleged. The mother, while crying, told the Afghan women's association RAWA, "A month ago at 11 o'clock of night armed men entered my house and after beating and threatening me by gun, abducted my only daughter." She said that it was later found that her daughter had been raped and exchanged for a dog and a sum of money to another person. The girl's whereabouts are still unknown. She accused the district chief Malom Zafar Shah and the powerful warlord Commander Mehmood of being responsible for the crime. The mother told journalists: "I approached [the] human rights office and police but none of them could help to find my daughter. The district chief himself has 4 daughters but he sold my daughters to others. With many difficulties and problems I grown up [sic] my 2 daughters, one was previously sold [by him] to a Kandahari man and taken to Pakistan and another was exchanged with a dog. Please bring them to justice." Both Malom Zafar Shah and warlord Mehmood are from the "Northern Alliance" and members of Jamiat-e Islami Afghanistan led by Burhanuddin Rabbani (currently member of the Parliament). They have a long record of such crimes and brutalities against people of Kondoz. Malom Zafar has been appointed as district chief directly by Qasim Fahim the former defense minister and vice President and now member of Senate. In an interview with Ariana TV, Malom Zafar rejected all charges against himself and Commander Mehmmod telling "no Jehadi brother is involved in such crimes." Mohammad Zahir Zafari, chief of the human rights office in Kondoz says, they have tried since a month to find the child but the police are also unable to do anything as powerful people have links to the crime. He also revealed that his office was threatened a number of times to stop following the case. Pajhwok Afghan News quoted Zahir Zafari on November 7, - "The only person responsible for the abduction of Sanobar is the warlord Mehmood, who exchanged the girl with a dog which he got from Nimatullah and then sold it for 150,000 Afghanis (US$3000)." Such crimes happen on a daily basis in Kundoz and other parts of Afghanistan where warlords have established jungle law and have all the key positions in their possession. Few such cases find their way to the media, with journalists fearful of the consequences of  reporting on such incidents.An 11th man was arrested yesterday by U.S. federal agents in Fresno, California, on charges connected to the plot by 10 other men to overthrow the government of Laos.Later yesterday, the federal grand jury Sacramento handed down indictments for the 11 men, including former Royal Lao Army general and Hmong leader Vang Pao.Dang Vang, 48, was arrested at his Fresno home in an early morning raid by agents from the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, or ATF.Dang Vang, Vang Pao and the others are charged with violating the U.S. Neutrality Act, which outlaws using United States soil to conspire to overthrow a foreign government that has peaceful relations with the U.S."Federal law is without equivocation: you cannot conspire to overthrow a foreign government with whom our nation is at peace," U.S. Attorney McGregor Scott said in a statement to reporters.According to the ATF, Dang Vang put the group's "action plan" to paper, summarizing its plot to blow up government buildings in Laos and assassinate government officials. The plot even had a name: "Operation Popcorn," or "Political Opposition Party's Coup Operation to Rescue a Nation."In addition to the 77-year-old Vang Pao and Dang Vang, 48, those charged are:Harrison Jack, 60, a West Point graduate, retired California National Guard colonel and U.S. Army Ranger in the Vietnam War.Lo Cha Thao, 34, of ClovisLo Thao, 53, of SacramentoYoua True Vang, 60, of FresnoHue Vang, 39, of FresnoChong Vang Thao, 53, of FresnoSeng Vue, 68, of FresnoChue Lo, 59, of StocktonNhia Kao Vang, 48, of Rancho Cordova, CaliforniaMost of the men indicted are prominent members of the Hmong immigrant community in California's Central Valley. They were arrested last week in a sting operation as the group was trying to purchase a rifles, missiles, rocket launchers, mines and explosives from an ATF agent posing as an arms dealer.In an 88-page criminal complaint, federal prosecutors detailed the plot, which included airlifting the weapons to Thailand, and had an estimated cost of US$27.9 million. Funds for the operation were raised from donations by the Hmong community and other supporters of Vang Pao from across the U.S.During the 1960s and '70s, Vang Pao led a covert army of Hmong people, backed by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency, against communist forces in the Laotian Civil War, or "Secret War", which paralleled the U.S. war in Vietnam.Since the communist takeover of Laos in 1975, according to a March 2007 report by Amnesty International, Hmong people in Laos have taken to hiding in the mountains, on the run from a government that persecutes them for their role in the war.U.S.-Laos diplomatic relations were strengthened in 1992, and in 2004, President George W. Bush extended normal trade relations to the southeast Asian country.In an exclusive report, Wikinews has learned from a witness who wishes to remain anonymous, that at approximately 12:00 p.m. EST (UTC-5) Heidi Garner called 9-1-1 to report that while walking her dog, it had been attacked by two other dogs when it sniffed under a gate of the house. When police arrived to investigate and retrieve the assaulting dogs, they entered the house and found the 12 fire bombs. It is not known what the devices were made of or what the explosive material was, but unconfirmed reports say the main explosive source was gasoline.The Hazmat team, the bomb squad, and emergency services were then dispatched to the scene to dispose of the devices, according to witness reports. It is not known where they were taken.Both dogs were immediately put to sleep because they were fighting over the body of the dead dog. It is not known who is the owner of the dogs, as the house was not rented, and no one was supposed to be living there.Wikinews has also learned, while investigating the property history, the Erie County's Department of Finance says that the building, which also has a storefront, is allegedly owned by a Richard White who happens to live next door at 17 Allen. White bought the property from Edward G. Koch in 1996. The building was built in 1910.It is not known what the devices were going to be used for and an investigation is ongoing. It is not known if there are any suspects.Because of a severe amount of garbage and dog feces, the City of Buffalo has condemned the building.Police in the Netherlands have arrested twelve passengers after a US flight destined for Mumbai in India was escorted back to Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport. No further information about the arrests has been given. The plane, which had 149 passengers on board, was accompanied by two F-16 fighter jets on its way back to the airport after the security alert today. According to the Dutch Defence Ministry, the plane's pilot made the decision to land the aircraft after several passengers mustered suspicion. "A number of them behaved, in the opinion of the crew, in a suspicious manner," said a Defense Ministry statement. "As a result, the captain asked to return to Schiphol. The customs police have taken a number of people off the plane for questioning."An airport spokesman said that the plane's pilot decided to reroute while in German airspace.Earlier today, a spokeswoman said that several passengers were taken off the Northwest Airlines aircraft and have been detained for questioning. AP quotes Mirjam Snoerwang as saying: "A number of suspects were taken off the plane - I don't know how many. They're undergoing questioning now."The National Terrorism Coordinator has said that there is no reason to raise the terror alert level in the Netherlands. Spokeswoman Judith Sluiter said: "It is the same as it was before - light threat." Since August 10, when police in the UK claimed they had foiled a suspected plot to blow up several transatlantic planes, security has been stepped up worldwide.At least 12 people have died and 32 have been injured because of a human stampede in the night club News Divine in Mexico City, Mexico. About 1,000 people tried to leave the club at the same time through the only accessible door during a police raid. The establishment's owner, Alfredo Maya Ortiz, told those in the club to leave due to the authorities' appearance.The Secretaría de Seguridad Pública (Public Safety, SSP) police officers arrived at the club at 5pm after being informed of alcohol sales to minors. During the raid, Ortiz used the sound system to make an announcement asking everyone to evacuate. Everyone did so simultaneously.Three minors are confirmed dead following the incident, as are six teenagers between 18 and 22 years old and three policemen. Some of the victims lost their lives because they were flattened by the doors being opened. Others perished after falling to the floor and getting trampled by the stampede. There were a number of deaths due to cars unintentionally running over people. All bodies were moved to the GAM 5 territorial coordination."Everybody began to run to the door desperately, in that moment somebody fell to the floor; others where arrested by the police when they crossed the door. Some of them where hit and moved to some buses. When they [the police] weren't looking at us, I took one of my friends and started to run", said a reserved source. He or she also confirmed that drugs were sold there and the club was only a "small two-story club that was always crowded".In addition to the owner, club employee Mariana de la Cruz Gayoso and an unidentified person have been arrested. The head of SSP, Joel Ortega Cuevas, confirmed the destitution of the policemen who organized the raid in order to optimize the investigation.News Divine has been open for three years and in that time has been closed three times by the law. Most recently, it was closed earlier this year. There have been many reports and complaints of drug sales, fights, and aggression around the club.Merseyside Police have arrested 13 people in connection with the murder of school boy Rhys Jones in 2007. The arrests took place in the Croxteth area of Liverpool, where the murder occurred. Of those, 12 were arrested on Tuesday in dawn raids and the 13th arrested on April 16. One of the original 12 has been released on bail.Of the 12 the remaining in custody, two boys aged 16 and 17, and two men aged 24 and 25, were arrested on suspicion of murder. The other arrests relate to possible charges of perverting the course of justice and assisting an offender and in one case possession of a firearm and ammunition.There have been many previous arrests during this investigation, it is not known how many, if any, of these suspects have been previously arrested in the course of this investigation. In the UK non terrorist suspects may be held for up to 24 hours before charges are brought and additional 12 hours can be granted by a Police superintendent. The police can then apply to a Magistrate for a further extension, this may happen as early as 5 p.m. BST (UTC+1) on April 16.Merseyside Police announced at 6 p.m. on April 16, that a 17-year-old had been charged with murder. Charges of assisting an offender have been brought against two men Gary Kayes and Melvyn Coy, and two youths, one of the youths has also been charged with possessing a firearm.In addition to the charged, one man was released on police bail on Tuesday and four more today, one person remains in custody without charge and one woman has been released without charge.A 13-hour kidnapping of four people by a bank robber in Setúbal, Portugal, ended at dawn Thursday as members of the special operations group stormed the bank facilities.The kidnapping started yesterday at about 1400 local time (1300 UTC), when a 57 year old man attempted to rob a Banco Espírito Santo's bank at the Rodrigues Manito Avenue, in Setúbal. The alarm was given by a man outside of the bank who noticed the robbery.The rapid response by the Polícia de Segurança Pública's (PSP) district command of Setúbal forced the robber to barricade himself in the bank with two employees and two clients who were in the bank at the time of the robbery. Cornered, the man decided to take the four people hostage, not allowing many contacts on the part of the police negotiators.According to a PSP source, the kidnapper was armed with a 6.35m pistol and said to the negotiators that he had a explosive device with him. The police immediately sealed off the block and interrupted all telecommunications in the area, only allowing calls to the Portuguese emergency telephone number.At 0308 local time (0238 UTC) a dozen members of the Police Special Operations Group (GOE) stormed the bank. According to PSP's officer Manuel Augusto Silva, the kidnapper was armed but was surprised by the members of the GOE team and didn't react, being immediately arrested.Some minutes later, the two bank employees, a 20 year old women and a 30 year old man left the bank building. The two clients were then handcuffed and escorted from the building and were not identified.The last to leave the bank was the kidnapper, who left escorted by the police officers and with his head covered.As the victims, kidnapper and members of the special forces officers left the bank, a bomb disposal unit entered the bank to inspect the possible bomb of the kidnapper. A suspicious package was later detonated by the technicians following security procedures, but no explosives were found.Although both the Portuguese authorities and news agencies had said that two of the hostages were female, the hostages were in fact three men and a women. Also, the news of a €100,000 ransom requested by the kidnapper wasn't confirmed."There wasn't any record of any kind of injuries on the police officers involved, on the four hostages, nor on the detainee" Jerónimo Torrado, officer of the PSP of Setúbal, said.A 13-year-old boy was killed and ten people were injured in an accidental shooting incident in the Brazilian town of Rondonopolis.The police were staging a mock hijack as a training exercise with real people in a bus as an audience on Saturday. They fired their guns at cardboard cutouts of criminals in the exercise. However, they used live ammunition in their guns, and the shots went straight through the cutouts and the glass windows of the bus.Luis Henrique Dias Bulhoes, 13, was killed by a single shot to the head received from one of three 12-gauge shotguns that were amongst the weaponry the 16 police were using. Among the 600 people attending the exercise, six children and three adults were also injured.Police admitted to the blunder on Monday. They believe bullets from more than one gun reached the audience. Seven of the 16 policeman are temporarily dismissed from their positions pending investigations.A bombing in the Iraqi province of Diyala  has killed 15 people, according to local officials. The suicide bomb exploded at the entrance to a local government centre in the city of Baquba, which is one of the most deadly areas in Iraq. 39 people were also wounded by the attack.An anonymous witness of the blast described the bomber. "I heard some of the injured people saying they saw a woman wearing a black robe blow herself up."This attack comes after a bombing on Tuesday killed 51 people, according to local police. That bomb exploded near a bus stop in the Hurriya area, which is mainly populated with Shia Muslims. 75 people were also wounded in Tuesday's attack, which was the deadliest in the area for three months.Fifteen people are dead, and thirty more have become ill after attempting to steal fuel from a freight train travelling through Karbi Anglong, Assam, India. It is thought they broke into a tank containing toxic chemicals.According to a railway official, the train was in the remote region with 48 wagons of petrol and diesel when raiders intercepted it. The train was in a forested area at the time and was surrounded by armed men, a common occurrence in an area where trains transporting products to and from refineries are regularly targeted.Witnesses described liquid pumping out of a tank at high pressure. There are no reports as in to what the tank contained, but the fumes were toxic; when police arrived they found that fifteen had succumbed to the gas, and thirty more were sickened by it. A number of empty oil drums, presumably intended for fuel from the train, were also discovered.A 16-year-old male from Novato, California has been arrested in Tennessee over allegations he intended to hijack a commercial passenger airliner in the United States. The boy, who was unnamed due to his age, was a passenger on board Southwest Airlines Flight 284 from Los Angeles to Nashville on Tuesday, with his parents reporting him missing at 11:30 am the same day. Although he remained calm throughout the flight and made no hijacking attempt, authorities report he had handcuffs, duct tape and yarn inside the aircraft cabin with him. Although his arrest was only made public on Friday, it is reported that he was detained immediately on reaching Nashville International Airport.George Bolds, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said that the items were "suspicious" and that the boy had informed the FBI he had indeed intended to hijack the aircraft. An FBI agent told reporters that he felt the plot was ill-conceived, saying "His plan had a low probability of success."The FBI also conducted a search of his home on Thursday, finding in his room "a photograph of the inside of a small aircraft, something you'd find in a bookstore."Subsequent to his arrest he pled guilty on Friday to a "delinquent act," according to local officials. A juvenile court judge ordered him to be returned to California for continued perusal of that charge as well as others set to be made. He is currently in Davidson County Juvenile Detention Center in Nashville.Authorities believe that the teen was suicidal, but the FBI dismissed earlier reports alleging that he intended to crash the airliner into a Hannah Montana concert in Lafayette, Louisiana.Authorities arrested a 16-year-old girl on Tuesday on an attempted murder charge after the stabbing of another 16-year-old girl, Monica Hawkins, outside the Fountain Gate shopping centre in Melbourne, Australia.Hawkins was allegedly attacked last Friday and she was found injured around 1 p.m. local time (0300 UTC) on a footpath near the shopping centre. Hawkins was airlifted to The Alfred Hospital where she was admitted in serious condition. Emergency surgery was performed on her and she was discharged on Monday from the hospital.The suspect, not named by authorities, allegedly fled the crime scene but was arrested on Tuesday.The suspect attended the children's court yesterday and has been charged with attempted murder and intentionally causing serious injury.Seventeen people, including five minors, have been arrested in the Toronto area on terrorism-related charges.  Over 400 officers, drawn from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS), and the Toronto, Peel, and Durham police departments raided a dozen locations throughout the greater Toronto area.  More arrests are expected overnight.Anonymous sources have told Canadian Press that those arrested are suspected to have been inspired by al Qaeda, and that they had plans to detonate explosives somewhere in Ontario.  According to BBC News, three tonnes of ammonium nitrate, a common fertilizer that can be used as an explosive, have been seized.  RCMP assistant commissioner Mike McDonnell stated, "To put it in context, the 1995 bombing of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City that killed 168 people was completed with only one ton of ammonium nitrate.”  In order to protect the investigation, he was unable to provide any information as to the potential targets, but did state that the Toronto Transit Commission was not targeted. The suspects are currently being held under extremely heavy security at a police station in Pickering, just east of Toronto.  According to RCMP spokeswoman CPL. Michele Paradis, “The investigation is ongoing.”  The suspects are expected to appear in court today, in Brampton.They have all been charged under Section 83 of the Criminal Code of Canada. The father of one of the suspects, Mohammed Abdelhaleen, told reporters: "I'm shocked. It's crazy - it's just crazy. It has no meaning whatsoever."Yesterday, Zomato, a food ordering and restaurant finding company, announced security breach of more than 17 million accounts, via their official blog. A hacker operating under the alias nclay uploaded evidence to prove they had the stolen data — hashed passwords and emails — for sale, Hackread.com reported. Zomato later announced they contacted the hacker, who asked Zomato to organise a bug bounty programme.The food ordering company, with 120 million monthly users, said the payment information of the users was not located with this data and was not leaked. Zomato said it uses PCI Data Security Standards.As a security measure, all the passwords of the involved Zomato accounts were reset and all of the accounts were forcibly  logged out from the application and website. The company said only hashed passwords were compromised. Hashed passwords are encrypted and, per Zomato, every password had a different "salt", for cryptographic salting was performed before hashing the original password. A "salt" is a random set of characters added before encryption to make decryption to obtain the original passkey more difficult.The hashed password itself can not be used to access the account. In the blog post before contacting the hacker, saying "internal (human) security breach", Zomato suggested this could have happened after a worker's development account was hijacked. After contacting the hacker, and promising a bug bounty programme on Hackerone, they said, the hacker agreed and removed the stolen data which was put on sale on the dark web. Zomato said they are looking forward to working closely with the ethical hacker community on security vulnerabilities.Following a two-year investigation into far right political activists, the lead suspect of which was a member of the Belgian military, police have made a series of arrests at barracks, soldiers' homes and civilians' homes across Belgium. Those arrested are suspected of plotting terrorist attacks to disrupt the country.During the raids, police found home-made bombs, large quantities of ammunition, firearms, detonators and other equipment, along with Nazi symbols and extremist literature. Belgium's federal prosecutors' office has said that those arrested are "soldiers and people with an extreme-right ideology who clearly express themselves through racism, xenophobia, Holocaust denial, anti-Semitism and neo-Nazism". The prime suspect is a member of a Flemish splinter group of Blood and Honour, a militant neo-Nazi network.Of the 17 arrested, 10 were within the military, and they had been stockpiling "a slew of weapons". The alleged leader is thought to have recruited like-minded fellows since 2004 and to have organised paramilitary trainings, survival weekends and firearms practice for them. Some of the trainings took place on army grounds, without the knowledge of the General Staff. The federal prosecuter said the arrests were set off by an increase in the group's weapons traffic. Police also say they have evidence that the faction was in touch with a similar group in the Netherlands. No plans for a specific attack were uncovered, but detectives say there was a model letter to claim attacks.The arrests were part of a coordinated campaign and involved raids with over 100 police officers on 18 private addresses plus 5 military locations.An 18-year-old man, Travis Hawkins Jr., was charged yesterday by police in Mobile County, Alabama, for allegedly beating a woman who is romantically involved with his sister. Hawkins was bailed following a charge for second-degree assault.Mallory Owens, 23, the victim of the attack, is in the USA Medical Center in Mobile, recovering from the injuries. Owens has had to have facial reconstructive surgery and had a broken nose from the assault during Thanksgiving. Owens' family have told reporters they believe it to be a hate crime and called for the prosecutors to upgrade the charges against Hawkins.The father of the arrested man, Travis Hawkins Sr., has said they have hired a lawyer for his son, Hawkins Jr.Authorities in western Kenya have arrested 19 suspects in connection with a spree of recent mob killings.  Earlier this week 11 elderly people had been burned on suspicion of witchcraft.  The 8 female and 3 male victims were aged 80 to 96 according to BBC News.  Belief in witchcraft is widespread in the Kisii District of Nyanza Province and attacks against purported witches had happened before, but this week's attacks targeted an unusually large number of people.Police launched an investigation into the incident and have deployed additional personnel to guard the area to prevent revenge attacks. Approximately 300 young men were reportedly responsible for the attacks. According to deputy police spokesman Charles Owino, those who can be proven to have had direct involvement in the killings would be charged with murder.Roadside bombs have killed a total of 19 people and wounded almost 80 in a series of attacks on Baghdad on Tuesday. Two roadside bombs exploded in the Arabi market killing 10 and wounding 69. Earlier in the day, a bomb destroyed a minibus and a taxi in Baghdad's Nahda district killing nine and wounding eight. Two other bombs targeted police, according to officials, wounding three.Nineteen South Korean Christians are released from insurgents after being held captive for six weeks. The 19 South Koreans return to a nation that is glad the hostage situation has been resolved and is over. However, they also face a country that is angry with their decision to travel to Afghanistan despite the Afghan government advising them not to.One South Korean man was reportedly stopped by the police when he attempted to hurl eggs at the freed Christians. The South Korean people are demanding to know who is to blame for the crisis and damaging South Korea's reputation. The South Korean government promised to send no more Christian missionaries into the country.The designated TADA court pronounced accused no. 55 in the '93 Mumbai bombing case Sarfaraz Dawood Phanse guilty of conspiracy and transporting arms and ammunition used in the attacks. Five aides of prime accused Tiger Memon, Manzoor Querishi, Kasam Shaikh, Sultan-E-Rome, Abdul Aziz Shaikh and Mohammad Iqbal Shaikh, were acquitted of aiding and abetting terrorist activities.According to the Central Bureau of Investigation, the five men had travelled to Dubai in the February of 1993 to attend a meeting where the blasts were planned, and had also planned to go to Pakistan for weapons training. They had earlier confessed to their involvement in the conspiracy but, subsequently, retracted their statements.Developer and CEO of Savarino Companies, Sam Savarino, has confirmed to Wikinews that he has bought, and is planning to restore a severely damaged stable and livery on Buffalo's West Side. The building partially collapsed on June 11, which originally caused 15 homes to be evacuated.Savarino bought the building from owner Bob Freudenheim for US$1.00 and states that he hopes to save as much of the building as possible, including the facade, at least 20 feet of the side walls, all of the back walls including the elevator tower and if possible all three floors. There is one major downside to the purchase; he inherits the over $400,000 tax lien against the property."It was a "NYS Lotto" purchase ('a dollar and a dream'). I do inherit the City’s lien of $400,000 though," stated Savarino to Wikinews. The fee is what the city has been billed for the limited demolition it paid for before Savarino bought the building. Currently the city is suing Freudenheim to force him to pay for those fees.The building is currently undergoing minor demolition in preparations to make the rest of it stable. Once complete, Savarino plans to evaluate the extent of the damage and begin his plans to make the building into residential living spaces."Only unstable parts are being demolished. We will see what we have to deal with as the demolition proceeds but tentative plans are for living units on two floors with parking on the ground floor," stated Savarino. Construction is expected to begin as early as this year, but "more than likely next year," he added.Originally the city ordered an emergency demolition on the building after Freudenheim gave them permission to demolish it on June 12 during an emergency Preservation Board meeting. His reason was because he would not be "rehabilitating the building anytime soon." Freudenheim, along with his wife Nina, were part-owners of the Hotel Lenox at 140 North Street in Buffalo and were advocates to stop the Elmwood Village Hotel from being built on the Southeast corner of Forest and Elmwood Avenues. They also financially supported a lawsuit in an attempt to stop the hotel from being built. Though it is not known exactly how long Freudenheim has owned the stable, Wikinews has learned that he was the owner while fighting to stop the hotel from being built. Residents say that he has been the owner for at least 22 years. Residents successfully halted demolition after winning a restraining order in New York State Supreme Court, which will continue to monitor developments in the case. The next hearing is scheduled for September 2.Savarino states his project could cost at least $3,500,000 and before construction can begin, all plans must be approved by the city's planning board.Research has found that approximately two per cent of British pound coins in circulation are counterfeit, since the number of fake £1 coins has doubled in the past five years. This means approximately 30 million of these fake coins are currently in circulation.File:Euro coins version II.pngDespite these large increases, the Royal Mint has claimed that these figures show "a comparatively low incidence of counterfeit coins by international monetary standards." Other people, however, disagree with the mint's assessment.Robert Matthews, a coin consultant who was formerly the Queen's Assay master expressed his disagreement with the opinion of the Royal Mint to BBC News Online. "In 2004, people started refusing to take the South African 5 Rand coin, due to concerns about the number of counterfeits, and eventually the coin had to be redesigned and re-circulated," he pointed out. "Independent surveys showed the number of counterfeits to be 2% - the same as we've got here - and I'm worried that if we're not careful the same thing will happen to the pound coin." It is illegal to make or use counterfeited coins, according to the Royal Mint, who said that all people who believe they are in possession of a fake must hand it in.In comparison, the Euro has been estimated as having less than 0.1% counterfeit coins among the circulation of 50c, €1 and €2 coins.2,887 ecstasy (Methylenedioxymethamphetamine) tablets were intercepted yesterday morning (NZDT) at the Auckland, New Zealand International Mail Center in a joint operation between New Zealand Customs officials and the New Zealand Police. The tablets were being sent to a 32-year-old man living in Timaru from a man living in the United Kingdom. The Timaru man is being charged with importing a class B drug, a controlled substance.Altogether the tablets had a street value of an estimated NZ$173,000.The Timaru man has appeared in the Timaru District Court and will be in custody until Thursday.Bill Perry, Manager for Drug Investigations at Customs, said: "The parcel was posted from the United Kingdom to an address in Timaru. This interception highlights New Zealand's growing problem of illicit drug importation."So far during 2006 Customs has intercepted a total of 6,026 ecstasy tablets, a decrease of 14,033 for the year of 2005 (20,059). "However importations of ecstasy and other MDMA products are still an area of ongoing concern and monitoring for Customs," said Perry.The International Mail Centre is the hub for all mail entering or leaving New Zealand. Each month the mail center processes around three million incoming mail items and around two and a half million outgoing. Simon Williamson, Manager for the Northern Ports Customs, said: "Customs screens all mail entering the country using a range of methodologies including our officers' skills and experience, x-ray equipment and detector dogs. Volumes of mail are rising and Customs officers are gearing up for the busy Christmas season."During 2006 crystal methamphetamine seizures by Customs have risen tenfold relative to the previous year.At 12:41 p.m. local time (UTC-5), a man opened fire at Dawson College, in Westmount, Quebec, Canada; the college is located near the heart of downtown Montreal. Police report at least 20 people being injured.  The gunman was reportedly killed at the scene by police. Students told reporters that they heard several shots in the building at about 12:45 local time. One student told a local radio station that she saw two people who had been shot, including one who was hit at the neck. The student said a friend told her four people had been shot.Hundreds of students fled the building, and the area has been cordoned off. Nearby Plaza Alexis Nihon and Westmount Square were evacuated and the Green line of the Montreal Metro was shut down between Lionel-Groulx and Peel. Police officers wearing bullet-proof vests are keeping people away from the college. "They're telling me, 'Go the other way, lady, you're in the line of fire,'" said CBC News reporter Nancy Wood, who reported from the scene.Local media have reported police hotlines have been established for loved ones to gain more information: +1-(514)-280-2880, +1-(514)-280-2805, and +1-(514)-280-2806. The Montreal General Hospital has also set up a hotline at +1-(514)-843-2839.Police have reported that the situation has been neutralized as of 20:06, September 13, 2006 (UTC). Police have been told to stand down and are no longer looking for new victims or shooters.Dawson College is a CEGEP that hosts about 10,000 students.The United States Coast Guard (USCG) has seized 20 tons or nearly 40,000 pounds of cocaine with a street value of over US$500 million in what authorities call one of the largest cocaine busts in history.Three busts in total were made in a period of nearly one month. The first on February 19, off the coast of Mexico, March 18 off the coast of Panama and on March 25, also off the coast of Panama.In the first bust on February 19, "the Ecuadorian-flagged fishing vessel Don Juan K was approached in the Pacific Ocean February 19 off the coast of Mexico while allegedly offloading cocaine into "go-fast" (cigarette-style boat) boats. The fishing vessel's crew apparently set fire to Don Juan K in an attempt to destroy the evidence and flee in the go-fasts. The USCGC Sherman stopped the go-fasts and recovered about 900 pounds of cocaine as Don Juan K sank. The 14 crew members are being processed for further legal action," said a statement on the USCG's website.The second bust on March 18 yielded nearly 40,000 pounds of cocaine."The 330-foot Panamanian-flagged motor vessel Gatun was interdicted in the Pacific Ocean Mar. 18 off the coast of Panama while heading north toward the United States. Sherman's crew stopped and boarded the vessel and found 765 bales of cocaine weighing approximately 38,000 pounds in two shipping containers. Gatun was escorted back to Panama and its 14 crew members processed for further legal action," added the statement.In the third bust on March 25, at least 2,000 pounds of cocaine was seized, also from a ship off Panama's coast."[The] Sherman's crew stopped and boarded a small stateless go-fast in the Pacific Ocean Mar. 25 off the coast of Panama following a short chase, in which, the go-fast attempted to flee at a high rate of speed. Approximately 2,000 pounds of cocaine was found aboard the go-fast and its four crew members were processed for further legal action," said the statement.Several agencies both in the U.S. and in other countries in Central and South America and will continue to investigate the extent of the drug ring."The Coast Guard works in close coordination with Joint Interagency Task Force South, U.S. Attorney's office, Panama Express South, DEA, FBI, Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and Customs and Border Protection, as well as the Departments of Justice, State and Homeland Security on counter drug operations in the Pacific Ocean near Central and South America.  These drug smuggling routes are some of the most active, yielding roughly 70 percent of the cocaine seized annually by the Coast Guard," added the statement.On this day twenty years ago, a transatlantic airliner broke up in midair and came down onto the Scottish town of Lockerbie. All 259 people on board Pan Am Flight 103, and eleven people on the ground, lost their lives in what remains the worst air disaster in British history.The disaster was an act of terrorism, caused by a bomb loaded on board. Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi, an intelligence officer from Libya, was convicted of 270 counts of murder for the bombing in 2001. Libya has since paid US$1.5 billion in compensation to the victims.Today, Megrahi's legal campaign for freedom continues. The Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission granted him a second appeal, saying there may have been a miscarriage of justice. The terminally ill man will begin that appeal next year. Wikinews wrote to Mr Megrahi in prison but he did not respond.One who does not believe in Megrahi's innocence is Kara Weipz. Her brother Richard Monetti lost his life in the bombing. Weipz, who now heads the Victims of Pan Am Flight 103 group, says she represents the large majority of victims' families from the United States when she says that they "believe that there were others who acted with Mr. Megrahi and should be held accountable also," when asked if she felt there was much still to learn about the events twenty years ago.They have, she says, no sense at all that Megrahi may have been wrongly convicted; to the contrary she now has some closure from the trial. "The conviction has brought a sense of justice to the families. No we do not agree with the convict at all. We support the Crown office and the decisions of the Court," she told Wikinews.We asked her if there were any differences between her version of events, and about her thoughts on potential issues with the investigation. "There is no difference between the truth as we see it and the official version of events. The facts are the facts, Mr. Megrahi is guilty," Weipz told Wikinews. "I don't believe there were any issues with the investigation. What bothers me is people with conspiracy theories that spew them as truths. The programs that have been run on TV recently call them conspiracy theories as well." Did the authorities let her down? "Not one bit. I am thankful for the Scottish Police and the FBI."She also revealed that she was not concerned that people might have viewed compensation for the bombing, granted from Libya, as 'blood money'. "Calling it blood money is a misnomer. We entered into a civil trial. The outcome of a civil trial is a monetary one. We knew that since Libya was guilty that the outcome would be that they compensate the families. The only part that bothered me was [that] it was connected to the lifting of sanctions and removal from the State Sponsors Terrorism List. Our goal was to deter terrorism by making it expensive to kill innocent people."One of the aims stated by the website of her victims' group is to maintain the memory of her loved ones; this she felt was still being done - "Absolutely!!!!" was what she told us. She says that the last twenty years have been hard, however: "While I miss my brother [every day], I live a healthy and productive life in his honor. Hard - yes, productive - yes."Megrahi has not been in touch with Weipz, or with any of the other victims, she tells us. Refusing to be drawn into speculation, she tells us she has "no idea" what secret documents Megrahi's defense has been refused permission to see might contain - she has "never seen them" herself, so she does not know what they are.She also did not feel that Megrahi should have been released upon his recent request on compassionate grounds owing to his terminal cancer, as "he is receiving the same medical treatment in prison as he would outside of prison. The Court didn't feel it was appropriate either." Wikinews also asked her if she believes the legal process generally has been fair to him over the years - "Yes, I believe it has been fair."VictimsofPanAmFlight103.org states "we are committed to seeking the truth about this tragedy and keeping the memory of our loved ones alive." The final question Wikinews put to Kara Weipz was this: "Do you think we will ever know the truth?""I would love to say yes, but I don't think we will ever know the whole truth," she told us.A 20-year old male turned the tables on an abusive police officer in St. George, Missouri after he was pulled over inside a commuter parking lot by officer Sgt. James Kuehnlein of the St. George police department.The St. Louis, Missouri man, Brett Darrow, 20, had installed a hidden camera inside his car, much like the way some police officers do, and caught the entire incident on tape. Darrow then posted the video on the internet on places like YouTube.com.In the beginning of the nearly 13 minute video, the police officer states that Darrow was being pulled over because his vehicle "seemed suspicious." Officer Kuehnlein claims that high crime rates in the lot caused Darrow to be pulled over.Kuehnlein then asks Darrow to step out of the car and asks to see his ID. Darrow then asks what he did wrong and Kuehnlein then blows up on the boy saying "do you want to try me? Do you want to try me tonight? You think you had a bad night? I will ruin your fucking night. Try me young boy."Kuehnlein then threatens to send Darrow to jail for "some fucking reason I come up with" and we'll "see who knows the law better. Don't ever get smart mouth with a cop again or I will show you what a cop does." Kuehnlein then begins to threaten Darrow with a list of false charges such as resisting arrest. He can also "come up with nine other things" for every one thing Darrow can come up with. Kuehnlein then tells Darrow that he was being ticketed for not using a turn signal to turn into the lot, but the video clearly proves the officer wrong.During the entire incident, Darrow barely spoke a word as the officer threatened him saying "I just had a bad night."Darrow is then allowed to go, but only after Kuehnlein notices the camera, and not before threatening Darrow some more saying "I don't really care about your cameras, 'cause I'm about ready to tow your car, then we can tear 'em all apart."After the video was posted on the internet, people from all over started to call the police department and complain about the officers actions."I was very displeased when I saw the actions on the video. My officers are not trained and taught to act like that," said Scott Uhrig, chief of the St. George police who added "someone either violated the law or they didn't. You don't say, I'll lock you up and then come up with why afterward."Darrow states that he did not take the video to the police chief because he thought the whole thing would be forgotten and "swept under the rug. I wanted everybody to see that this kind of stuff does happen."Pending an investigation of the incident, Kuehnlein was suspended without pay.Most heroin sold in Europe comes from Afghanistan's poppies. This past week, the 2005 opium harvest was in full view and going full speed in Afghanistan. The cultivators gathering resin from the crop are operating even near the main road through Kandahar and the farmers are out gathering resin from opium poppies in full view.Last year 80% of the world's opium came from Afghanistan and production is up over 239% since 2003, according to U.S. government estimates.  Afghanistan is the world's largest producer of illegal drugs.In 2002 Super Bowl ads, the White House sent out the message that "drugs fund terrorists".  Doug Wankel, a former U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) official, says the opium industry is "financing terrorism. It's financing subversive activities. It's financing warlordism... And if it's a threat to the government of Afghanistan, it's a direct threat to the national security interests of the United States.""The Bush administration has decided not to destroy the opium crop in Afghanistan," stated a U.S. intelligence official returning from Afghanistan in relation to the 60% smaller 2002 crop. The source, who requested that he not be identified, noted "U.S. forces could destroy the crops using aerial spraying techniques, but no such actions are planned."U.S. plans to spray the crops were canceled at the request of Afghan President Hamid Karzai, who has called for jihad or "holy war", but is concerned that aerial spraying could be harmful to the health of Afghan villagers.  The U.S. claims that the spraying would be safe, but is granting Karzai's request.Karzai has indicated that he may change his mind if other U.S. strategies fail to halt the opium. Congress budgeted $774 million for anti-drug operations in Afghanistan just this year.File:Dakar 2006 Hummer Gordon.jpgThe threat of terrorism has caused the cancellation yesterday of the 2008 Dakar Rally, due to start today. The race, which was to be the 30th consecutive rally, was to start in Lisbon, Portugal and end on January 20 in Dakar, Senegal having crossed the Sahara Desert.The endurance event is the world’s biggest off-road rally and Paris-based organisers Amaury Sport Organisation had said as late as Thursday that more than 500 cars, trucks, motorcycles and quads from fifty different countries were ready to go as scheduled. However, the organisation changed its mind under pressure from the French government.Al-Qaida-linked groups are believed to have planned to attack the rally, and it is reported that specific threats were made against it by al-Qaida in the Islamic Magreb, a regional African offshoot. The day before Christmas a French family on holiday in Mauritania was murdered and al-Qaida are believed to be responsible; the rally was scheduled to spend eight days in Mauritania.Al-Qaida in the Islamic Magreb have recently seen a crackdown by authorities, but are continuing their operations and are now seeking to strike international targets. Last month they bombed the United Nations headquarters in Algiers; that attack killed 37.The Mauritanian government had promised a 3,000-strong security force to protect the competitors but the remote location of the desert and scrubland involved would make effective security arrangements almost impossible. French security consultant Louis Caprioli, former anti-terrorism head at the Direction de la Surveillance du Territoire, said “You would need really incredible security precautions, and I don’t think it’s possible with the new techniques of attack, such as suicide bombings.”French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said yesterday that Amuary had been warned by government officials that it would be too dangerous to go ahead with the plan. After last-minute meetings with ministry officials. “No other decision but the cancellation of the sporting event could be taken,” said a statement on Amuary’s website.Caprioli said the terrorists intended to prove “They can chase out the infidels. The cancellation was wise. But it gives the impression that the terrorists have won.”Patrice Clerc, head of Amuary, stated “When you are told of direct threats against the event and when the sinister name of al-Qaeda is mentioned, you don’t ask for details. It was enough for me to hear my government say the danger is at a maximum.”Security has caused many concerns for the race over the years. Extremists tend to view the race as a prime target, as it is highly covered by the media, and is a rare concentration of Westerners. As a result, major security measures have had to be undertaken by French and African authorities. Almost 50 people have been killed, several of whom at the hands of African fighters. Although there are fears for the future of the race, Amuary said that the event would continue in the future. “The Dakar is a symbol, and nothing can destroy symbols,” they said. “The cancellation of the 2008 edition does not endanger the future of the Dakar.” However, they have confirmed that it is unlikely Mauritania will be a destination in future events. Competitors in the event, however, are less optimistic, with many saying that they feel the race will not go ahead next year. Newspapers in Senegal have described the cancellation as a death sentence. Meanwhile, the town of Portimao in Portugal, intended to be the rally’s first scheduled stop, are considering filing for damages against Amuary.Victor Anderes, vice-president of a New York firm specialising in high-profile event security, called the cancellation an unprecedented one in sporting history, saying “Smaller cultural events have been cancelled , but this hasn’t happened with such a major international event.” However, he did accept that “The threat is significant. It would be almost impossible to secure the entire course.”CCTV footage has been released showing a truck bomb exploding outside the Marriott Hotel in Islamabad, Pakistan. The footage shows a camera, which was manually controlled to focus specifically on the developments as they happened.The nearly four minutes of footage, shows a large truck pulling up in front of the hotel at a guarded gate. After the truck attempted to ram through the barrier, some reports stated that guards began to fire shots into the truck."The truck was stopped at the barrier and there was an altercation between the attacker and the guards," said Pakistani Interior Ministry official Rehman Malik in a statement to the press.Guards began to run away once the truck slammed into the gates, but began to approach the truck seconds later. The cabin of the truck then explodes sending sparks and debris in all directions, with some of it hitting the camera. The truck begins to catch fire and people can be seen returning to the scene in an attempt to put out the blaze. Unsuccessful, the truck explodes, taking the camera out with it.Officials believe al-Qaeda is responsible for the attack which killed 53 people and injured almost 300. Rescuers are searching for survivors, as an unknown number of people are still missing. At least 21 of those killed were from foreign countries.Officials say the target was aimed for a residence a block away which was said to be housing Asif Ali Zardari, Pakistan's new prime minister. He was attending a dinner with several other Pakistani officials.According to media reports, the bodies of 21 infants were found washed ashore along the riverbanks of the Guangfu river in eastern China over the past weekend. They are believed to have been dumped there by hospitals.Local residents found the bodies at the outskirsts of Jining, a city in the province of Shandong, underneath a bridge. Video footage showed that the bodies were in yellow bags, at least one of which was marked as "medical waste". Eight of the bodies had identification tags on them, which were traced back to a local hospital, the People's Daily web site reported; the other thirteen were unidentified.The Xinhua news agency, meanwhile, reported that some of the bodies were fetuses. It was not immediately clear how many of the bodies were male or female.An official from the Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical College, who requested to remain anonymous, commented that "Several of the bodies of babies with [identification] tags were from our hospital, but not all of them. The officials from the health bureau are still in the hospital doing an investigation," as quoted by the Associated Press.Hamdi Issac, a suspect in the 21 July bombings in London, has been ordered by an Italian court to return to the UK. The Ethiopian national was arrested in Rome a few days after the July 21 failed terror attacks in London.Despite today's decision by Rome's appeal court, Issac's attorneys are expected to immediately appeal, delaying his extradition by up to a month.Yasin Hassan Omar, 24 — suspected of the attempted attack on Warren Street Tube Station — has been arrested by police in Birmingham in a raid yesterday.After being informed by a member of the public, police — supported by an army bomb disposal team from the Royal Logistic Corps (RLC) — launched a dawn raid at 04:30 am BST on a ground floor flat in Heybarnes Road that Omar was apparently staying in alone. According to the British tabloid newspaper "The Daily Mirror", Omar allegedly shouted at police to "Get back or I'll take you with me".After a struggle ensued involving, it is believed, a rucksack that police feared was a bomb, Omar was shot in the bathroom by a 50,000-volt taser stun gun that temporarily disabled him. The rucksack was apparently thrown outside the window by police officers.Around 100 homes were subsequently evacuated as a precautionary measure on the orders of the RLC bomb disposal team. The team then made a controlled explosion of the suspect package.In a house in nearby Bankdale Road, three men, thought to be Somalis, were arrested and taken to a local police station.Omar was later taken to Paddington Green, West London, the Metropolitan Police's only high-security police station.The flat in Birmingham remained guarded by police while forensic tests continued. Elsewhere, three women were arrested in Blair House in Stockwell, London in connection with the investigations into the attempted attacks on 21 July.Early this morning, nine people were arrested under the Terrorism Act 2000 in raids on two houses in Tooting, south London. None are believed to be the three remaining 21 July bombers at large.Three blasts occurred in Mumbai Wednesday evening in one of the busiest areas of the city. It has been estimated that 21 people have been killed and up to 113 injured. According to a regional government official, Prithviraj Chavan, the explosions were "a co-ordinated attack by terrorists."The first blast took place in South Mumbai's Zaveri Bazar at 1854 local time (1324 UTC), in which several were injured. Here, a motorcycle had a bomb attached to it that exploded next to a jewelry shop. According to eyewitnesses, fire broke out immediately after the blast. The second explosion happened  at the Opera House in Charni Road within a few minutes of the first one. This was the most powerful explosion, caused by a bomb that blew up inside a building. The third one took place in Dadar at 1905 local time (1405 UTC), where a taxi was rigged for the purpose. All three of the locations are commercial and residential areas with busy streets and heavy traffic.According to an eyewitness to the Zaveri Bazar explosion, "[b]odies and limbs were strewn everywhere. People were crying and screaming. The area was packed with shoppers at the time of the blast. A few offered assistance to the blood-soaked victims, while others looked on in a state of shock."The home ministry put the National Security Guard on alert following the blasts in Mumbai.A 21-year-old New Zealander, who has not been named, was sexually assaulted by another man early yesterday morning (NZDT) in Wellington, New Zealand. The New Zealand police have described the sexual attack as "prolonged and terrifying".The man was first threatened with a weapon at a shopping center located in Riddiford Street, Newtown, Wellington and was then forced into a dark and isolated carpark where the sexual attack occurred.Detective Sergeant Zane Smith, said that they have been given a very good description of the attacker and with that description have released an identikit picture. The attacker is a male Māori aged between mid-20s and early 30s, measures around 1.8 metres and has a solid build. The most identifiable feature is a Māori tattoo located on his chin. The attacker was also wearing a '50 Cent' green hooded top, faded black baggy jeans and was wearing sneakers coloured red and white.The attacker has still not been found and police are asking for anyone who may have been in the Riddiford Street shopping centre between 2:00 a.m. and 3:30 a.m.CCTV (closed-circuit television) cameras are being examined.22 million counterfeit cigarettes have been found in Cardiff, Wales by officials working for HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). They had an estimated value of five million GBP and impersonated the Classic Gold and Raquel brands of cigarette.The details of the discovery, which took place on December 19 last year, has only just been made public.The HMRC have stated that they have worked to find the source of the illegal products during the time since the discovery was made. The assistant director of criminal investigation for the organisation, Andrew Pavlinic, explained the reasons for this. "Had it been successful, it would have undermined the business of honest traders who only sell duty paid tobacco products," he continued. "The sheer quantity involved in this attempt suggests these cigarettes could have ended up in locations across the UK.""We have prevented UK consumers from being conned into buying cigarettes that are counterfeit and could have more serious risk to health than legitimate brands."The discovery was the largest hoard of cigarettes found by custom officials in the whole of 2008, although several other significant stashes were found throughout the year. For example, nine million counterfeit cigarettes were found in Suffolk in August, and eight million were found in Belfast in May.By virtue of 28 search warrants, the Australian Federal Police has charged and arrested 23 men across Australia of "trading images and videos of child abuse on the internet," being part of a global child pornography and video-sharing network involving people in 70 countries. A Victorian QC, a NSW policeman, and a childcare worker are among the 19 arrested so far across NSW, Victoria and Queensland. As part of the international crackdown on the online child pornography ring, the AFP’s Child Protection Operations Teams seized some 500,000 images and 15,000 videos, which not only showed victims as young as 12 months old, but even filmed children being molested for more than two hours.Retired former barrister, a Newham Victorian legal figure Neil James Williams QC, aged 74, was arrested by Australian Federal Police on October 22. Charged with one count of using a carriage service provider to view child pornography and one of possession of child pornography material, he appeared in the Bendigo's Magistrates' Court of Victoria and was released on granted bail, pending court hearing on March 4.Sydney man Richard Ngon Fung Lee, aged 24, a waiter from Blakehurst, New South Wales, one of five men arrested and detained, was accused of "downloading and possessing child pornography," and six counts of child sex. He did not file a petition for bail, as Sydney's Central Local Court jurist Allan Moore adjourned the criminal lawsuit until next week. He will also be charged with having sex with a 13-year-old girl.AFP Acting Deputy Commissioner Andrew Colvin said, "the videos seized as part of this operation have to be among the worst we have seen; in this case we haven't located any children that were depicted in these videos or these images in Australia; law enforcement does have tools, so we can get in and infiltrate these type of applications; if we are not knocking on your door this morning, then it could be tomorrow."The year-long probe dubbed "Operation Resistance" began after information from the Brazilian Federal Police last December. The tip-off supplied from the DPF via the Interpol, had contributed to identification of more than 200 suspects in 70 countries forming the global internet sex network. The Age reported that "six other Victorians arrested are a 40-year-old Bell Park man, 27-year-old Maldon man, Rodney Peter Smith, a 56-year-old Altona man, a 66-year-old Northcote man, a 32-year-old Lovely Banks man and a 47-year-old Windsor man." Some of those arrested will appear before the Geelong Magistrates' Court of Victoria next year. Another 200 suspects have been identified worldwide.Amid the legal and practical issue of identifying the victims, the children appear to be based primarily in Eastern Europe, and North and South America. All the charges filed concern peer-to-peer (or P2P) network, with each carrying a 10-year imprisonment penalty for possession of child abuse instrument. AFP acting assistant commissioner Neil Gaughan said more charges and arrests are expected this week. Only two children in NSW had been removed from contact with suspects. The AFP's one year investigation has also resulted in over 300 people being arrested, including 131 people as part of 2008's Operation Centurion.The police are urging anyone with information regarding overt or suspicious acts about child pornography to report the matter to the local police, or online through http://www.virtualglobaltaskforce.com.According to local media, 25 people have died in an illegal coal mine in central China, after a fire broke out there.The incident occurred at the mines of the Dongxing Coal Mining Company, near the city of Zhengzhou, the capital of the Henan province. It is believed that the fire was started by an electrical fault, the Xinhua news agency reports. There were 31 total miners inside the mine; six were able to escape, but the others burnt to death.The owner, manager, and an investor of the mine were taken into police custody on Monday. Their assets, and those of the mine, have been frozen by the authorities. It was not immediately clear what caused the blaze, although an investigation is underway.China's mines are the deadliest in the world; according to Al Jazeera, several thousand miners die each year due to accidents in them. Earlier this month, over 30 people were killed in another coal mine in the northern part of the country, after a flood. The government has pledged to crack down upon illegal mines and enforce safety rules.25 New Zealand police officers have left today, July 11, for three months in East Timor. The force will carry pepper spray and pistols.The police force will assist the 160 New Zealand Defence Force armed personnel that are already in East Timor as well as other country's personnel.Grant O'Fee, contingent commander, said "attempts will be made to establish good relations with village chiefs."The police teams will try to prosecute those who are responsible for arson and assault following the recent violence in East Timor.The recent two weeks of violence has died down since the former Prime Minister (PM) of East Timor resigned giving his post to the former foreign and defence minister, Jose Ramos Horta. This appointment has been congratulated by the United Nations (UN) Secretary General, Kofi Annan. Horta said the main priority for his government will be "restoring security and moving 150,000 people in refugee camps back home."On Friday an Italian judge ordered 26 Americans, a CIA-led team, to stand trial for kidnapping of Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr in 2003. He was brought to Egypt where he says he was tortured as a subject to CIA "rendition". He was later released. Also on trial is  Nicolo Pollari, Italy's former spy chief, and members of the SISMI military intelligence agency.This is the first criminal trial over "renditions", aspects of the Bush administration's "war on terror". One of the defendants Robert Seldon Lady, the former CIA station chief in Milan, said via his lawyer that he did not recognize the court.Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr, a Muslim cleric also known as Abu Omar was taken by a CIA-led team in Milan on 17 February, 2003 and allegedly transferred by vehicle to the Aviano Air Base near Venice, later by air to the Ramstein Air Base in Germany, and lastly sent to Egypt. He was released from prison on Sunday and says that he would like to return to Italy.  He also said he has been tortured with electric shocks, beatings, rape threats and genital abuse, and that "I have been reduced to a wreck of a human being."Though Mr. Nasr was under investigation for terrorism-related activities at the time of his abduction no charges have been brought against him. Italian officials says Nasr was suspected of recruiting fighters for radical Islamic causes and fought in Afghanistan and Bosnia. Montasser al-Zayat, lawyer, said Nasr had only traveled to Jordan, Yemen, Albania and Germany.According to a government document, the Australian federal government has detained 26 Australian citizens in immigration detention centres over the past ten years. In its count, the document does not include high-profile cases involving Cornelia Rau, Vivian Solon and "Mr. T", for which the government has already accepted liability.Responding to a question on notice from Labor MP Steve Georganus, Phillip Ruddock, former Australian immigration minister said that the commonwealth ombudsman was looking into 220 possible cases where people have been illegally detained and of those 26 had been identified as legitimate Australian citizens. "Of the 220 cases bearing the descriptor 'released not unlawful' the department has identified 26 cases involving Australian citizens" he said.According to Mr Georganus, his question was put to the government six months ago. He received a reply from Mr Ruddock last week.Mr Georganus said that the errors should not be occurring in a democratic country. "When you see 26 Australian citizens locked away in Australia in a democratic country in the year 2006, you lose all confidence," he said.At least 27 people in Karachi, Pakistan have died after they consumed poisonous, home-made alcohol at a private party. At least 11 more people are hospitalized, with eight of them in critical condition. Reports say that among the dead are police officers, and that at least one of the individuals responsible for brewing the alcohol has been hospitalized."The poisonous liquor has so far claimed 27 lives and another 11 are being treated in different hospitals," said police Deputy Inspector General Javed Bukhari, who also added that the alcohol "was supplied to all these people by the same source." At least 100 bottles of the poisonous alcohol were sold at the party.So far, three police officers have been suspended from duty because they failed to stop the alcohol from being made and sold. At least one officer is reported to have been involved in the brewing of the alcohol.Pakistan shifted from practicing secular policies to Sharia law 25 years ago, and as a result alcohol is not allowed to be consumed by Muslims in the country. If caught consuming or possessing alcohol, the individual could face three years in jail, or be caned. There are few stores that sell alcohol, and those that do are closed during Ramadan.Police are investigating the incident.A 28-year-old suspect, Sergej W, was arrested by German police near Tübingen yesterday for allegedly attacking the German football club Borussia Dortmund's team bus, injuring two people last week prior to the UEFA Champions League quarter-finals, the German federal prosecution said.The suspect, who holds a dual citizenship of Germany and Russia, was allegedly trying to bring down Borussia Dortmund's share value in the stock market. Sergej W bought 15000 puts for stock worth €78000 (£65300) on April 11 — the day Borussia Dortmund's bus was attacked. A put guarantees that a share holder can sell their stock, no later than a predetermined point in time, at a predetermined price even if the market price of the stock has dropped. The suspect booked a room in the hotel L'Arriveé from April 9 to 13, and then from April 16 to 20 — the time when Champion League's first and second leg of the quarterfinals were to be played. Dortmund's team commonly stays at L'Arriveé when playing home matches. Borussia Dortmund is the only German club whose shares are publicly traded on the stock market. The incident resulted in two casualties. Spanish defender Marc Bartra and a police official were injured, and the stocks fell slightly. The prosecutor said if the explosions had caused serious injured or death of any players, the suspect might have made a huge profit. The suspect is charged for attempted murder and causing serious physical injury.On April 11, Borussia Dortmund were to play AS Monaco at the Signal Iduna Park. The match was rescheduled due the attack for April 12. On the latter day, a 25-year-old Iraqi migrant was detained. A number of letters claiming responsibility were found near the site of explosion, about six miles from the stadium. Those letters reportedly hinted the explosions were authorised under the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, but were deemed fake after careful analysis.During the trial of a man yesterday for rape at an Atlanta court house, the man on trial allegedly stole the gun of a nearby deputy and shot dead the Judge, a reporter and another deputy. The suspect, Brian Nichols aged 33, was at court for the fourth day of his trial for numerous charges filed by a former girlfriend. Nichols was being tried a second time after his first trial ended in a hung jury (8-4 for acquittal).After fleeing the court house Atlanta police assumed he drove away in the reporters car and issued a nation wide "look out" for the vehicle. The car was found later parked in the courthouse garage. He is still at large, and a massive police hunt is under way. The prior day to the incident, Mr. Nichols was found to have two handmade knives hidden in his shoes. Georgia prisoners often make "shanks" to try to fend off gang rapes while in custody.There is a bounty of $60,000 for any information leading to Mr. Nichols' re-capture.Three car bombs were detonated in Baghdad, the capital of Iraq on Sunday morning, killing 30 people. The attacks were aimed at foreign embassies, according to sources. 224 people were wounded in the bombings which occurred in quick succession according to officials."They were suicide attacks against the Egyptian and Iranian embassies," commented Major General Qassim Atta, who is the spokesperson for the Baghdad operations of the Iraqi security agencies. According to him, one of the attacks were at a junction close to the German and Syrian embassies. The German foreign ministry officials claimed that an security guard of Iraq was killed while three others were injured. The head of the Egyptian embassy's security was killed and several guards were wounded in the blast.Atta stated that Iraqi security agencies had barred a car with a bomb in Masbah, central Baghdad. The car was allegedly to be used to attack the headquarters of security police, whose work was to protect embassy officials. The bomb was defused and the driver of the car arrested by security forces.The explosions which occurred almost simultaneously broke windows in adjoining buildings, sparked exchange of gunfire between the security personnel and the attacker, thereby sending smoke clouds in the sky. Two suicide car bombs were detonated in the neighbourhood of Mansur in west Baghdad while a third explosion occurred close to the Iranian embassy in the city. No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attacks.Said Mohammed, a witness of the blast near the Egyptian embassy, said guards had made an attempt to stop the bomber. "Three security guards shouted at the truck to stop moving, and opened fire on the driver," said he. He angrily shouted at Iraqi army officers on seeing this, saying: "How did the truck get here?"Pieces of shrapnel covered the street in front of the embassy building. The entrance to the building was destroyed; a crater five metres (16 feet) in diameter could be seen near it."The explosion [at the Iranian embassy] was really strong," said Abu Ahmed, a taxi driver who was an eyewitness of one of the blasts. "They never kill ministers, officials or heads of state. They kill taxi drivers, public employees and shopkeepers. How much longer will this last?"The frequency of attacks in Iraq has fallen from the levels in 2006 or 2007; however figures issued on Thursday showed that last month, 367 Iraqis had been killed in attacks, the highest this year.Police in the United Kingdom have shut down a global internet paedophile ring in a ten month operation that involved 700 suspects in 35 different countries, some of whom remain at large. 31 children have been rescued from their abusers.Sky News crime correspondent Martin Brunt said it could well be the biggest internet paedophile operation ever mounted in the UK. It was led by the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre.Timothy Cox, 28, from Buxhall, near Stowmarket, UK, has been identified as the ringleader and has been sentenced to an indefinite jail term. He hosted the network the paedophiles used to communicate, a web chatroom called Kids The Light Of Our Lives, on which they swapped photos and videos of child sex abuse. Some attacks were broadcast live over the internet.Judge Peter Thompson said that Cox posed a significant risk and had to be sent to jail for the protection of the public. He will not be considered for release until such time as he has persuaded the authorities that he is no longer a threat to the community. Such a term could mean that he is never released.Cox himself was found to have 75,960 indecent and explicit images on his computer and police found evidence he supplied at least 11,491 images to other paedophiles over the chatroom, on which he used the identity "Son of God". He admitted to nine counts of possessing or distributing images of children. Since his arrest in September, authorities worldwide have been infiltrating the network and collecting evidence against the other members, culminating in today's announcement.According to authorities in Mexico, 31 prisoners have died as the result of a fight which broke out in a prison, involving alleged members of drug businesses. Thirteen prisoners were also wounded in the brawl, which occurred in the Altamira municipality on Wednesday.Temporary weapons, such as knives, were reportedly used by inmates to attack each other; a signifcant number of deaths occurred as a result of the use of weapons like these, authorities stated. One anonymous state official spoke of deaths occurring due to clubs and stones being used as weapons. The violence apparently commenced when a number of prisoners entered an area of the prison they were prohibited from entering and attacked the prisoners situated there. Police officers, with the assistance of soldiers, were eventually able to intervene and restore order within the prison, officials reported. Marines are also understood to have intervened.22 of the prisoners killed had been sentenced to prison for state crimes, while the other nine had been jailed for federal offences, according to Mexico's public safety department. The department provided no further information about the incident. According to Voice of America [VoA], a significant number of the inmates at the prison are serving sentences on drug-related charges.Although unconfirmed by the Mexican government, it has been reported by Mexican media that the violence occurred between members of the Gulf cartel and Los Zetas, two Mexican drug cartels which rival each other. It is understood by VoA that violence from the Mexican Drug War spreads into prisons frequently. According to BBC News Online, a substantial number of Mexican jails are over capacity for prisoners and often experience drug cartel-related violence.A suicide bomber blew himself up on a bus carrying more than 50 people in Kabul, Afghanistan killing at least 31 and critically injuring 17 of the people on board. 28 were Afghan soldiers, and so far at least two civilians have been killed."At this time I can tell you that 31, almost all of them military personnel, have been martyred," said Afghanistan's Public Health Minister, Sayed Mohammad Amin Fatemi.Reports say that the suicide bomber, who was dressed in a military uniform, walked onto the bus and blew himself up, tearing it into two pieces. Several businesses were also damaged in the attack and military personnel were retrieving body parts from trees.Zabiullah Mujahid of the Taliban, says they are responsible for the blast and stated that the bomber was 'Azizullah', a Kabul resident.Two shootings at Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia have left 33 people dead, gunman included, in the deadliest civilian shooting in the United States. A further 15 people are being treated in a hospital. According to police, the gunman committed suicide. At a 4:45 p.m. EST press conference, it was stated that no names of the injured or killed will be released soon. According to the press conference, the shooter shot and killed two people at an on-campus dormitory in a "domestic dispute." He then walked to the other end of the campus and began to open fire on students.At least 34 people were injured when a series of explosions rocked different parts of the state of Assam in India, on Thursday night. According to the police, four explosions of a very high intensity occurred in different parts of the state after 7 p.m. Those injured in the explosions are being treated at local hospitals.Police said the first explosion occurred when militants lobbed a grenade at a crowded market in Islampur, 80 kilometres north of Guwahati, injuring 21 people. In the second incident, five passers-by were injured in another blast near the Golokganj police station close to the border with Bangladesh. The third explosion took place in the western district of Dhubri town where three people were wounded. The last explosion occurred in Nagaon, 120 kilometres east of Guwahati, injuring four people, including a policeman. The attacks come a day after the Central government announced dates for the third round of talks between government peace representatives and an 11-member civil society group from Assam chosen by the militant, separatist group United Liberation Front of Asom (ULFA). The ULFA has demanded the release of five of its top leaders from prison if New Delhi wants to hold direct talks with the separatist group. Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi said  "We have already recommended their release to the authorities in Delhi. We want peace back in the state."At least 30 people have died and 112 people have been injured, many critically in three explosions in a crowded market in the town of Malegaon, in the state of Maharashtra in India. The explosions appeared to have been caused by crude bombs and occurred between 1:45 PM and 1:49 PM (IST) on Friday afternoon. The blasts took place near the Noorani Mosque, when a Shab-e-Barat procession was passing through the market. Curfew has been imposed in the town, which itself has been cordoned off, to prevent communal tensions from escalating. Mobile networks in the city have been jammed.Maharashtra DCP P. S Pasricha, however, claimed that only one blast had occurred resulting in 5 fatalities. An MLA from the area later confirmed the occurrence of three explosions. Special Inspector-General of Nashik, P. K Jain, said that two state police companies and ten Rapid Action Force had been sent to Malegaon to control the situation. He also added that prior intelligence had been received about the possibility of such an attack. An angry mob attacked the Superintendent of Police when his team tried to reach the blast site. Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra, R R Patil is headed to the town to assess the situation. The Union Home Secretary  has asked the state authorities to speak to local leaders in Malegaon and ask them to help maintain the peace there. A high alert has been declared throughout the state and paramilitary forces are en route to control the situation in communally volatile areas. Malegaon, in the Nasik district of Maharashtra, is famous for its powerlooms, and one of the biggest cities in Northwest Maharashtra. It has a history of communal tensions between its majority Muslim population and their Hindu neighbours. The town witnessed riots in 1984 and then again in 1992 (in the aftermath of the Babri Masjid demolition) and, most recently, in 2001. The blasts happened a day after a controversy over India's national song, the Vande Mataram heightened communal tensions.38 people were reported dead Sunday, in a Taliban attack on a bank in Jalalabad, Afghanistan.  The incident, orchestrated by five suicide bombers disguised as policemen and soldiers, quickly escalated into a confrontation between security forces and the invaders armed with machine guns.  After a several-hour standoff, four of the five attackers detonated their bombs while the fifth was arrested by police.  A representative for the Interior Ministry told the press that "Thirty eight people were martyred which includes 21 security forces personnel and 17 civilians."  Members of the police force were apparently receiving their paychecks when the attackers entered the bank and began indiscriminately firing at guards and civilians.  70 others were also wounded.Although officials refused to itemize the casualties, they claimed that due to the random nature of the gunfire, both security personnel and civilian bankers were killed.  Attacks targeting police have become common in the Nangarhar province; this incident was the third major attack this week.In the biggest ever narcotics haul in India's capital, the New Delhi police have seized over 4,400 kg of Mandrax and Rs. 20 crore from a dealer in the city. The consignment, meant for a customer in the U.S, was seized from a godown in Badarpur, near the Delhi-Haryana border. The alleged trafficker, identified as Vinod Sharma, claimed that the contraband was not his and that he had nothing to do with the matter. Sharma started his career as a scrap-dealer in Delhi, and police suspect that with the help of some contacts he used container depots for drug-trafficking, whilst successfully dodging both the police and the Customs Department.On Sunday the Delhi Police arrested him at his Kalkaji residence. The Deputy Commissioner of Police for South District, Delhi Police, Anil Shukla said, "Sharma befriended container drivers and once they had driven past customs, he and his men would meet them at a distance and pilfer the containers."133 women and 401 allegedly abused children have been taken into state custody after officials received a call from a distressed 16-year-old girl. The children were found in a 1700-acre compound belonging to the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints during a raid which started on Saturday. Children as young as 6 months have been removed from the compound.The 16-year-old girl called in saying that she had been abused and forced to marry a 50 year old man. The girl also said that in the compound – which included a medical facility, a cheese-making plant, a cement plant, a school, numerous large housing units, and a white limestone temple – some females as young as 14 and 15 were already mothers. The girl has not yet been identified.The women leaving the compound were wearing home sewn, ankle-length dresses and were said to have been kept in isolation from the outside world.A spokesperson affiliated with the Texas Department of Public Safety has said that so far, one person has been arrested for "interfering with the duties of a public servant." She also told reporters that "an unknown number of men remain on the compound and are not free to leave."The children will be assigned attorneys and the case hearing will be held next week. Meanwhile, the children will be staying in temporary shelters, which officials say are filling up fast.Police had been monitoring the compound ever since it was bought by the sect one year ago.The Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, a polygamist sect led by Warren Jeffs – jailed last year for the rape and forced marriage of a 14 year old girl – is a breakaway branch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which abandoned the practice of polygamy in 1890.Police have charged five people with drug-related offences while 12 were taken to hospital during a rave in Homebush Bay, a suburb in Sydney's inner-west overnight. Over 4,500 people attended the party.The party was held overnight at Sydney Showground at Sydney Olympic Park, Homebush Bay - the home of the 2000 Olympic Games.According to police, 12 party-goers were taken by ambulance to Auburn and Concord hospitals where they were treated for suspected drug overdoses. All are believed to be in a satisfactory condition.Inside the rave, police arrested two males and a female. The males, aged 19 and 20 were charged with drug possession and a female, aged 35 was charged with two counts of drug possession. Outside the party, police charged a 16-year-old male with drug possession and supplying a prohibited drug. Police also charged a 27-year-old male for drug possession outside the venue.During the rave, security reported that they removed three people following offensive conduct. The rave ended at 7 a.m. without further incident according to police.Five women are reported dead after a shooting at a strip mall in suburban Chicago, Illinois, and police are searching for the perpetrator, who they say fled the scene. According to police, the shooting may have been part of a botched robbery.The shooting took place at a Lane Bryant clothing store in Tinley Park, a suburb of Chicago. Tinley Park police Sgt. T.J. Grady says a 911 call reported the shooting at 10:44 a.m. When police arrived, they found all five victims lying in a back room of the store.Other stores in the strip mall, including a Target, were temporarily locked down as police officers — armed with pistols and rifles — searched for the gunman."Every store was immediately canvassed and a search by air too has given us every indication that the offender has left the scene," Grady said.Selena Kujawa, who was inside the Target with her 5-year old son when police entered, said, "I was so scared I couldn't think."Grady did not identify the names of the victims, as their families are still in the process of being notified. However, the victims have now been identified as ranging between ages 22 and 37, and at least one is believed to be a store employee. He described the shooter as an African-American man, about 5 feet 9 inches tall and weighing between 230 and 260 pounds. He was reportedly wearing a black coat, a knit cap, and dark jeans. Grady believes the shooter is no longer in the immediate area. Tinley Park police chief Mike O'Connell said that more information would be made available Sunday afternoon, when forensic exams have been completed. "This is a very serious and sensitive investigation," O'Connell said.Illinois senator and Chicago resident Barack Obama released the following statement addressing the shootings: "I was deeply saddened to learn about the shooting in Tinley Park, and my heart goes out to the victims' families. This kind of violence is unacceptable — not just in a shopping center where we're supposed to feel safe, but wherever it occurs. And as the facts become clear, I hope the authorities find and prosecute whoever is responsible for this tragedy."St. Petersburg, Florida police were taped on video handcuffing a five-year-old kindergarten student who had earlier torn papers off a bulletin board and punched an assistant principal. The camera happened to be filming on March 14 as part of a classroom self-improvement exercise at Fairmount Park Elementary. Video of the event has been released by a lawyer for the child's mother.The little girl had already calmed down from her tantrum by the time of arrival of the police, but they cuffed her anyway. Police had been called when a phone call to mother Inga Akins, had led teachers to believe that it would take an hour for Ms Akins to arrive and take the girl away.The video reportedly shows three officers pin the passive girl's arms behind her back and put on handcuffs, as she screams, "No!"Attorney for the mother, John Trevena, called the incident "incomprehensible". He provided the tape to the media this week, after obtaining it from police."The image itself will be seared into people's minds when you have three police officers bending a child over a table and forcibly handcuffing her," said Mr Trevena.Police planned to investigate the incident and make public the findings in around two weeks.Around 50 people have been arrested ahead of a planned human rights protest in Swaziland. The protest had been planned against the monarchy of Swaziland to call attention to the country's alleged lack of human rights. Many of those arrested have been released but several people remain in custody.The King of Swaziland, Mswati III, has come under pressure for living in luxury with his thirteen wives while many Swazi people are on the poverty line. He has also faced criticism for having a high number of sexual partners, when 26% of 15 to 49 year olds are HIV positive.Several South African trade unionists were included in the protesters arrested.  A spokesman for Cosatu, the South African trade union federation, said that two of the unionists had not been released and their current whereabouts are unknown.Human rights group Amnesty International has commented on the events saying that, "The arbitrary arrest of these political activists, lawyers, trade unionists and journalists is nothing short of police harassment and intimidation."Swaziland is the last country in Africa to hold an absolute monarchy.Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, BRAZIL —This morning about 500 policemen occupied the Morro da Rocinha, a favela in Rio de Janeiro. The action is a part of a police operation against drug dealers.Police say they recovered 11 previously stolen motorcycles, a grenade, a fusil, a walkie-talkie and fireworks (the criminals usually use fireworks to warn fellows about the arrival of police). Three men suspected of drug dealing were arrested: Fernando Pereira Lima (aged 22) Alessandro Martins (aged 27) and a boy (aged 17 - Brazilian laws forbid the release of names of teenagers younger than 18 in reporting legal cases). The teenager allegedly shot the grenade against the policemen, but was himself hurt. He is stable after treatment at the Miguel Couto hospital.The drug dealers from Morro da Rocinha are in a war against drug dealers from the neighboring Vidigal favela. Local populations of both Morro da Rocinha and Vidigal are endangered by the criminals, and have demanded urgent actions by the authorities.According to a report on Wednesday by UpGuard, a cybersecurity firm, two databases containing user data from Facebook were found on Amazon.com web servers accessible to the public on the internet. Information leaked included user ID's, photos, Facebook friend and group lists, and interests. One of the databases is owned by the Mexican company Cultura Colectiva, which specializes in digital media, while the other is owned by a separate Facebook-integrated app, At the Pool. In these two instances, the records were publicly available because the "Amazon S3 Buckets" on which the data were stored were misconfigured to allow public access instead of only private access. The original report was not entirely clear about this point, and Wikinews confirmed with UpGuard that the two incidents involved two separate Amazon S3 buckets.UpGuard reportedly sent an email to Cultura Colectiva on January 10, and again on January 14, but received no response. On January 28, UpGuard reportedly emailed Amazon Web Services informing them of the situation, to which on February 1 Amazon Web Services acknowledged the bucket's owner had been informed. After the database had still not been secured, UpGuard reportedly emailed Amazon Web Services again on February 21, with Amazon Web services responding that they would investigate what else could be done about it. Reportedly, the Amazon S3 Buckets were only secured after Bloomberg contacted Facebook.The Guardian drew comparisons between this case and the Cambridge Analytica scandal, in which over 50 million Facebook profiles were harvested for data without users' knowledge or consent.The city of Nuremberg has marked the 60th anniversary of the opening of the trials against Nazi war criminals.At a ceremony in the Palace of Justice, where the tribunal was located, participants of the trials gathered and remembered. Whitney R. Harris, a member of the U.S. prosecution team, emphazised the importance of Nuremberg for contemporary international law claiming that "the principles of the Nuremberg case have been followed in recent years and the fact that we conducted Nuremberg has given impetus to the establishment of these more recent tribunals". But the president of the International Criminal Court (ICC), Philippe Kirsch, is frustrated that there is still opposition against modern international tribunals like his court: "The spectre of politically motivated prosecution which is a running theme against the ICC is so unfounded that it is to me intellectually difficult to understand".On November 20, 1945 the trials began in the courtroom 600 of the Palace of Justice. A total of 24  defendants were tried, among them Hermann Göring and Rudolf Heß. With Geoffrey Lawrence being chair of the court, the trial took 218 days and ended with 12 death sentences, 7 jail terms and 3 acquittals. One defendant killed himself during the trial, another one was declared unfit to stand trial. Some controversy does exist as to whether the Nuremberg Principles have been adhered to in the years following the trials.  Noted intellectual author, Noam Chomsky, has claimed that all US presidents since the end of the war would be judged to be war criminals according to these principles.In its recently released report called Attacks on the Press in 2007, the Committee to Protect Journalists has said 65 journalists were killed in 2007. According to the report, 32 of these deaths were in Iraq, which has had the highest number of deaths for the second year running. The report says that "journalists were killed in unusually high numbers in 2007, making it the deadliest year for the press in more than a decade." According to the report, the number of deaths has increased by eight from the previous year and is more than double the figure for a decade ago.The African director of the CPJ said that, in general, the government of the Democratic Republic of Congo, which came fourth in the list, “is fairly antagonistic to the independent press, and unfortunately we [the CPJ] monitor a lot of cases [in the Democratic Republic of Congo] of harassment, imprisonments, and even murders that are carried out with impunity."The report also shows that the number of journalists imprisoned in 2007 has decreased from the 2006 figure, with the 2007 figure, which was 127, being approximately the same as the 2005 figure. It also states that 57% of those imprisoned are done so on antistate charges, and that 17% have no publicly disclosed charge pressed against them. The director of the CPJ criticized these imprisonments in the report, saying that “imprisoning journalists on the basis of assertions alone should not be confused with a legal process. This is nothing less than state-sponsored abduction.” He continued by stating that he believes "every one of these 127 journalists should be released,"  and that the CPJ are "especially concerned for those detained without charge because they’re often held in abysmal conditions, cut off from their lawyers and their families.”A 65-year-old woman has been arrested in connection with the deaths of two Mexican midget wrestlers. Brothers Alejandro and Alberto Perez Jimenez were found dead in their hotel room in Mexico City, Mexico. The brothers' drinks had been spiked with a fatal dose of eye drops and the pair were robbed. The mini wrestlers entered their hotel room with two women. Later, surveillance cameras recorded the two women leaving the hotel alone. The police traced and arrested one of the female suspects by way of a stolen cell phone that belonged to the wrestlers. Police are still searching for the second woman. Alejandro and Alberto wrestled on the Lucha Mini Wrestling circuit. The pair fought under the names Espectrito Jr and La Parkita, known as "The Little Ghost" and "Little Death". The female suspect admits meeting the wrestlers but denies poisoning them.Prosecutors say that there are female gangs in Mexico City who drug and rob men.At least 68 different pieces of luggage has been found behind a pet store inside a garbage dumpster in Houston, Texas. The luggage came from several different international flights and authorities do not know how they got there or if the contents of the luggage have been stolen."We're going to be investigating and the authorities are going to be investigating," said spokeswoman for Continental Airlines, Mary Clark. All luggage was handed over to Continental Airlines.The luggage is reported to have been sifted through, and most pieces have come from all over the world. The luggage is reported to have come from Bush Intercontinental Airport. Some pieces of the luggage have name tags and Clark states that "we're trying to reach whoever we need to let them know the bags are there."Officers with the Houston Police Department are in charge of the investigation. The luggage was found by individuals who own the pet store.The FBI has stated that the bags do not pose any danger.A 69 year old woman and her 39 year old son from southern Australia have been charged with drug offenses following their arrest last week. Evelyn Harvey, a pensioner from Perth, and her son Johnny Harvey, from Prospect have been charged with "(possessing) a prohibited drug with intent" in Western Australia.West Australian police arrested the pair last week after police intercepted a package sent via road courier, allegedly from the son in South Australia to his mother in Perth. The package containted 3.16kg of compressed cannabis head with a street value of AU$40,700.Police allege that Mrs. Harvey was knowingly receiving the drugs and distributing them to dealers in Perth.Detective Senior Saregent Dockery said "If convicted we will apply to the court to have both of them declared drug traffickers".  Under Western Australia's crime legislation, the pair's property could be confiscated by the state.According to police, $5000 in cash was also seized from the pensioner's housing commission unit.Seven paratroopers accused of beating three Iraqis—one to death—are now standing trial in Essex, United Kingdom.On May 11, 2003 a part of a platoon of the 3rd Battalion Parachute Regiment visited a "small southern Iraqi village".  They pursued and stopped a white Toyota truck driven by Athar Finnjan Saddam who, along with 18-year-old Nadhem Abdullah, was taken out of the truck and thrown to the ground.  It is at this time that the paratroopers allegedly began beating both men brutally without provocation.Dalal Sadaam, a female relative who had just given birth, attempted to stop the violence only to be assaulted herself by the butt of a rifle to the mouth.  A woman who was pregnant at the time in the vehicle shouted for the soldiers to stop.  After the soldiers left, the other victims took Abdullah to a doctor.  The doctor sent him to a hospital, but he died en route.Only two of the paratroopers even recalled the incident months later, but evidence of the victim's blood has been found on at least one of the soldier's guns.  Eyewitnesses were mostly illiterate Marsh Arabs who have had trouble understanding the interviewer's questions but have been cooperating fully.  A price of about £2 million is currently being attached to the cost of the trial in the UK; however, the family of the victim may be able to extract civil damages from the UK in the emerging Iraqi judicial system.An alleged member of the Kashmiri militant group Lashkar-e-Toiba has been arrested by Indian police in connection with the July 11 train bombings in Mumbai which killed 200 commuters on the city's commuter rail network. The arrest followed a raid on a hideout in the Sanai Potha area of Surankote in the Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir(J&K) state. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Mumbai police aided by the Counter-Intelligence Wing of the J&K State Police apprehended the militant, identified as Abdul Hameed. Hamed has been taken to the Joint Interrogation Centre (JIC) in Poonch for interrogation by the Mumbai and Kashmir police forces. Hameed was traced through an identity card provided to him by a private security agency in Mumbai he worked for, which was recovered from one of the blast sites at Matunga. Officials say Hameed had been been deployed in Mumbai by the Lashkar-e-Toiba to establish a network in the city. Hameed had been close to Abu Usama, the "Divisional Commander" of the LeT in Poonch and is believed to have received direct instructions from the organisation's top leaders across the border in Pakistan to carry out the bombings.After seeking a remand from the local court in Poonch, authorities will fly Hameed to Mumbai for further interrogation. Hameed has already revealed some vital information about the bombings and more arrests are likely to take place in the Baramulla and Poonch districts of the state, police say. Pakistan and the LeT have have denied any role in the attacks, but Indian officials have said that LeT remains a prime suspect and that links between the blasts and the Kashmiri insurgency were emerging.Afghan security forces, along with the United States led coalition are reported to have killed about 70 suspected militants in Afghanistan. According to US authorities, Afghanistan is currently experiencing its highest level of violence in the last 6 years. The surge in militant attacks comes despite a multi-million dollar reconstruction effort to rebuild the shattered country and the presence of more than 50,000 foreign troops and 110,000 Afghan police and military officers. It was not possible to independently verify any of the death tolls because travel to the areas is extremely dangerous.More than 4,200 people - most of them insurgents - have been killed so far this year, according to an Associated Press count.Carlton Lindbergh Johnson, a 77-year-old pastor, was found guilty on three charges of raping and sexually abusing minors yesterday in Muskegon, Michigan. Johnson was arrested in June of 2013 following allegations to police from one of the victims in 2012.Johnson — who held a position as church leader at the Faith Congregational Church of God in Christ in the Jackson Hill neighbourhood of Muskegon — awaits sentencing in June for the two counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct and one second-degree criminal sexual conduct charge. By their testimony, two of the women were between thirteen and fifteen when Johnson assaulted them, and one only ten. A woman of seventy testified to being assaulted by Johnson as early as 1957.Rachael McEnhill, assistant prosecutor for Muskegon County, was asked why it had taken so long for victims to come forward: "I think that there was a lot of family pressure and pressure within the church. And according to the expert that testified, it is very common for people to go their entire lives without disclosing sexual abuse."An 85-year man, Reginald Hugh Donovan has been jailed for a month by the Christchurch District Court for shoplifting. He is the oldest person in New Zealand to be sentenced to prison.Mr Donovan has been previously banned from many stores for shoplifting and has been convicted about 50 times for it. The Christchurch District Court judge, Colin Doherty, said to Mr Donovan "You are a recidivist and incorrigible thief. You steal predominantly from local supermarkets. The extent of your offending is not great in monetary terms, but you persist."He has always promised to stop shoplifting after receiving sentences of supervision and community work. He blames his poor memory for his shoplifting problems.Mr Donovan was found stealing small items and he did not have enough money in his pocket to pay for those items. He suffers from deafness, dizzy spells, chronic breathing difficulties and the after-effects of a disabling accident.In the past year, the FBI has sharply reduced the number of staff investiging the post-9/11 Anthrax probe attack from 31 to 21; and the post office has reduced the number of investigators from 13 to 9. The investigation has been one of the most extensive in FBI history but has yielded no arrests. The reward for information leading to an arrest and conviction remains at $2.5 million.The FBI is preparing an internal report to take stock of the situation, as is usually done in high-profile cases which go unresolved for years, and are expected to remain so. The magnitude of the Anthrax probe parallels the 18-year Unabomber probe, which was only resolved because Theodore Kaczynski issued a public manifesto and his brother recognized his thinking and tipped off the FBI.The prevailing theory in the Anthrax probe is that "the culprit is a U.S. scientist who had access to the high-grade anthrax and the knowledge of how to physically manipulate it and use it as a weapon", a theory which emerged early in the investigation. The attacks used a weaponized Ames strain almost surely produced in the U.S. [1] [2], most likely at Fort Detrick.  The purpose of the attack also remains unknown but many believe it was committed by conservative elements in American society, due to the existence of coordinated harmless attack, the choice of targets, and the choice of strain. Some believe the attack was aided by Lt. Col. Dr. Philip Zack, perhaps with the intent to frame ex-coworker Dr. Ayaad Assaad whom Dr. Zack harassed while at Fort Detrick [3] [4].The post-9/11 Anthrax attacks killed 5 people and temporarily infected another 17.Zacarias Moussaoui, the only member of the U.S. September 11, 2001 attacks to be brought to trial, was removed four times from a Monday court session in Alexandria, Virginia where jury selection is underway for the penalty phase of the trial over his guilty pleas to conspiracy. Moussaoui disrupted the proceeding with verbal outbursts directed at the judge.Appearing before the U.S. District Judge Leonie M. Brinkema at the Albert V. Bryan United States Courthouse, the citizen of France Moussaoui began calmly by saying with a heavy French accent that, "I want to be heard by this court before the proceedings start."Judge Brinkema warned Moussaoui that it was not the proper time for him to speak. But Moussaoui, 37, who was unrestrained by shackles and wearing a green jump suit labeled with the word "PRISONER" across the back, said "These lawyers are not my lawyers," referring to the defense team led by federal public defender Gerald Zerkin. "Everybody here know that these people do not represent me."The unsolicited comments prompted the judge to dismiss him. Moussaoui offered no resistance as he was led away by marshals, but shouted over his shoulder to the judge, "I don't want them to represent. I'm al-Qaida; they are American. They are my enemies." He said of the proceeding, "This trial is a circus."A jury pool of 18 members, six of whom will serve as alternates, will be selected from the group of 500 potential jurors who appeared Monday. Four court sessions were convened that day to begin sorting through the candidates, and Judge Brinkema allowed Moussaoui to return for each of the three remaining sessions. She instructed potential jurors, "If any of you feel that that outburst or the way he conducted himself might affect the way in which you would go about judging this case, you need to clearly put that statement on the jury questionnaire."These instructions were repeated to each group of potential jurors after Moussaoui conducted similar outbursts during the remaining sessions, which resulted in his further dismissals.Moussaoui, in a surprise, pleaded guilty in April to six conspiracy charges of terrorism, leading to yesterday’s start of the jury selection to decide whether he will spend the rest of his life behind bars, or be executed for his involvement in the 9/11 attacks. Moussaoui was arrested on immigration charges three weeks prior to the attacks. The prosecution contends that he could have prevented the attacks by alerting authorities to the Al-Qaeda plans while he was jailed in Minnesota after his arrest.The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Tony Blair, has expressed his continuing support for a 90 day holding period for terror suspects.Despite the concern expressed by the head of MI5 and the demands from the Metropolitan Police for more powers, there was no mention of new anti-terror legislation in the Queen’s Speech.Yet the Prime Minister still wants to extend the present period for which police can hold a suspect from 28 days to 90 days. Blair stated that he believed that the evidence supported the longer period, and said that proposals would be based on an analysis of recent experience and that legislation could be brought in before Christmas if it was thought necessary. Gordon Brown has said that he, too, would support an extension to 90 days were an analysis to show that it was required.Lord Carlile, responsible for overseeing terrorist legislation, said he expected new laws to be proposed in the new year, but, if an extension of the period of detention without charge was proposed, it would have to be backed with evidence of the need for it, as the Home Secretary had promised. Shami Chakrabarti, head of Liberty, the human rights charity, said: "Ninety days is internment - our nightmare but a terrorist recruiter's dream”. She deplored the absence of proposals to use intercept evidence and other means in the pursuit of terrorists.Lord Goldsmith, the Attorney General, said that although the extension from 14 to 28 days was justified by experience, he was unaware of any evidence that would support the extension to 90 days. The Metropolitan Police had wanted the law to be changed so that interrogation could continue after charges had been made. Lord Goldsmith said of this that there would have to be safeguards to protect prisoners from being bullied by police interrogators, but it might provide an alternative to the extension to 90 days detention period.Although the Attorney General had, in September, agreed that the admission of intercept evidence in court would be an “important tool in the fight against terrorism”, Home Secretary, John Reid, had rejected the proposal because he had seen no evidence to support its use. The Attorney General now says that ways are being sought to enable phone tapping evidence to be admitted in court without revealing how and where it had been obtained.Downing Steet refused to comment on Lord Goldsmith's statement.The Conservative shadow home secretary, David Davis,  welcomed Lord Goldsmith’s statement about the 90 day period and said that this justified the stance taken by opponents of the Bill that had resulted in the rejection of the 90 day proposal and the acceptance of 28 days as the maximum period of detention without charge.Convicted on the first of June by a military jury for participating in prisoner abuse at Abu Ghraib, former sergeant Santos Cardona, 32, a dog handler in the United States Army, was today sentenced to ninety days of hard labour and demoted to the rank of specialist. Cardona was charged and convicted on two counts: aggravated assault, for using a Belgian shepherd dog to threaten detainees with actions "likely to produce death or grievous bodily harm," and for dereliction of duty in relation to this act. He was cleared of seven other charges. Cardona faced up to three and a half years in prison on these charges, and despite the conviction his attourney has expressed relief at the sentence. He will not be held in confinement during the term of his sentence.In a free trade zone in Antalya, Turkey, 80 women workers of FMC Novamed are in strike for almost a year now, since September 26th, 2006. They allege not only low wages but also severe abuses on FMC's part. Novamed, founded in 2001, is a factory managed by Turkish capitalists and located in the free trade zone in Antalya, Turkey. 95% of its workers are women. It is owned by Fresenius Medical Care (FMC), which is an international corporation with its headquarters in Germany. With factories in 12 countries and a total of 100,000 workers, FMC is a monopoly in the market of dialysis products.On Sunday, February 6, 2005 the police officer Luiz Pereira da Silva was murdered inside a MST camp in the Brazilian city of Quipapá, Pernambuco. His colleague, police officer Cícero Jacinto da Silva,  was captured and tortured. Another policeman, Adílson Alves Aroeiras, escaped. This week authorities from Pernambuco said they will strengthen the investigation.The three police officers were from the 10th Batalhão da PM (Military Police Battalion). They were travelling in an unmarked police car. Members of the MST destroyed the car with scythes, and set fire to it.The policemen were pursuing José Ricardo de Oliveira Rodrigues. Oliveira Rodrigues is accused of assaulting banks and robbery of goods transported by vehicles in the roads of the region. He hid at the MST camp known as "Bananeiras" (Banana tree). The peasants interfered with the arrest of Oliveira Rodrigues and got into a conflict with the police. Police officer Luiz Pereira da Silva was killed by three gunshots. Police officer Cícero Jacinto da Silva was captured, and later tortured. Officer Adílson Alves escaped. The MST activists disarmed the officers and took their bulletproof vests. Later on Saturday (February 7, 2005), Police Commander Major Sillas Charamba negotiated the release of Jacinto da Silva. The policemen's pistols were returned, but the bulletproof vests could not be because they had been destroyed.The MST says that the former MST leader Oliveira Rodrigues was already banished from the moviment. The MST says the peasants didn't know that the three men were policemen, that Oliveira Rodrigues deceived the other peasants, and that the policemen could not be identified as police officers. The MST say they have previously brought Oliveira Rodrigues to the attention of the police for the alleged theft of a motorcycle and beating of a woman.[1]The MST regional coordinator Jaime Amorim has been invited to go to the town Police Station and explain to the police that the MST has already denounced Oliveira Rodrigues. According to the Police Comissaire Antônio Carlos Câmara there are no recorded complaints concerning Oliveira Rodrigues from the MST at the police station.The Regional Superintendent of the National Institute of Agrarian Development (Incra) in Pernambuco,  Maria Oliveira, expects the arrival of a special federal task force this week  (February 15, 2005). The force will assist in the disarmament of MST members from the Bananeiras camp.The Secretariat of Social Defense of Pernambuco announced the backing of the investigations with the help of the Group of Special Operations and the Nucleus Specialized in the Verification of Multiple Homicides.The Police requested that Incra provide more information about the MST members from Bananeiras camp, some of whom are suspected of murderer and torture, so they can be properly investigated.Aaron Swartz, a fellow at Harvard University's Center for Ethics and an open source programmer involved with creating the RSS 1.0 specification and more generally in the open culture movement, has been arrested and charged with wire fraud, computer fraud, unlawfully obtaining information from a protected computer, and recklessly damaging a protected computer after he entered a computer lab at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts and downloaded two-thirds of the material on JSTOR, an academic journal repository.According to the indictment, Swartz is accused of sneaking a laptop into MIT, hooking it up as a guest on the MIT network, and then running a script to download files from JSTOR. After being caught, Swartz returned the hard drive containing the downloaded documents to JSTOR who intend not to pursue civil litigation against him, but he has been indicted by the U.S. District Court in Massachusetts. He has been bailed on a $100,000 unsecured bond after pleading not guilty to all charges.Swartz had previously downloaded around 20% of the U.S. Government's PACER database of court decisions, prompting the FBI to investigate his actions. In 2006, Swartz ran for the Wikimedia Foundation's Board of Trustees and also wrote an influential essay on "Who Writes Wikipedia?".Following Swartz's indictment, Greg Maxwell, a contributor to Wikipedia and Wikimedia Commons, has published a torrent on The Pirate Bay containing 33Gb of papers from the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society that were published before 1923 and are thus public domain in the United States, but previously only available at a cost from JSTOR.An investigation into Scientology and Tom Cruise which was set to air this past Friday on the American television program 20/20 was removed from broadcast by ABC News. This is not the first time that ABC News has pulled an investigation into Scientology from airing on 20/20. A press release published by ABC on Thursday announced the scheduled airing of the investigation. It described the program as "an in-depth look" by Elizabeth Vargas into the recent report on Tom Cruise and Scientology by journalist Maureen Orth for Vanity Fair in its October 2012 publication.An analysis of the situation by Editor-in-Chief Tony Ortega of The Village Voice pointed out that in 2008, actor and former Scientologist Jason Beghe was interviewed by Elizabeth Vargas after he had flown to New York. Beghe recounted to Vargas his experiences within Scientology and his decision to cease activity in the organization. However, this interview by Vargas was never shown on ABC. Ortega noted, "Then, Friday night, ABC caved again, and this time much more publicly." He highlighted a television screenshot which displays clearly the description given by ABC for the 20/20 program scheduled for Friday: "20/20. New. 'Lovestyles of the Rich and Famous; The Camera Never Lies' Journalist Maureen Orth discusses her recent article in Vanity Fair on Scientology and actor Tom Cruise; celebrity".According to Ortega, this was to be a significant investigation into Scientology. It was going to cover topics including the recent divorce of actress Katie Holmes from Tom Cruise, the role of minors within the Scientology organization, material on Scientology's chief David Miscavige, and controversy regarding the elite Scientology group known as the Sea Org. Ortega was himself interviewed as part of the investigation, which he was told would comprise an hour-long broadcast. In addition to Ortega, former Scientologists Marc Headley and his wife Claire were interviewed by ABC News for the 20/20 piece which they were informed would be complemented by a news segment on Nightline. Claire told the camera of her two mandatory abortions she experienced while a member of the Sea Org in Scientology; Ortega reported that this interview moved the ABC television crew to tears.Marc Headley confirmed that he had learned of the ABC News decision. In a post Friday to a legal fund webpage he set up to support his family with litigation costs from Scientology, he commented: "We just got word that both ABC 20/20 & Nightline have pulled the TV shows that were going to air tonight. It appears that someone at OSA is trying to sandbag the downstats over the next few weeks." OSA is an abbreviation for the Office of Special Affairs — a department within Scientology which has been compared to an intelligence agency that handles legal affairs and public relations. Downstat refers to a negative impact on statistics gathered by Scientology members of the Sea Org due to critical investigations of the organization by the media.Abdelbaset Ali al-Megrahi was revealed today to have requested his second appeal to be dropped. Al-Megrahi was convicted of planting a bomb on Pan Am Flight 103, which detonated as the aircraft flew over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988 killing all 259 people on board and eleven more on the ground.Megrahi had been offered transfer to his home of Libya if he dropped the appeal, but had previously stated he would not return unless his conviction was overturned. He has terminal prostate cancer and it is thought that he is due to be released shortly on compassionate grounds, having served eight years of his minimum term of 27 years in Greenock prison.Megrahi lost his first appeal in 2002, but a review found that there was reason to believe there may have been a miscarriage of justice. The decision to drop his second appeal comes as a surprise, with some victims' relatives expecting the proceedings to continue even after his death. A court hearing to consider the request is due on Tuesday.Opinions about the conviction are split, with the families of most British victims considering the man to be innocent while those in the United States are satisfied with his guilt. Briton Martin Cadman, whose son Bill was among the dead, told The Daily Telegraph "It's been nearly 21 years since the event and where are we? Nowhere." Last year, on the twentieth anniversary of the disaster the head of the US group Victims of Pan Am Flight 103, Kara Weipz, told Wikinews that "There is no difference between the truth as we see it and the official version of events. The facts are the facts, Mr. Megrahi is guilty."Pakistan Army announced on Thursday they had recovered an abducted Canadian-US couple and their three children from the tribal areas of Pakistan in an operation carried out from US intelligence. The couple were abducted in 2012 by the Haqqani network.According to media reports, wife Caitlan Coleman from the US, husband Joshua Boyle from Canada, and their three children, two boys and a girl, were recovered from custody through an intelligence-based operation conducted by Pakistan Army.The couple was abducted by the Haqqani network in 2012 while they were on a tour to Afghanistan. Caitlan Coleman was seven months pregnant at the time. She gave birth during her abduction to two boys and a girl.In December, a video was released of the couple in which both were sitting with their —then two— children. They asked authorities to negotiate to set them free.According to a US official and Pakistan Army's press release on Friday, the couple with their children were repatriated.The Amber Alert issued for four-year-old Alisa Maier of Louisiana, Missouri was canceled after Maier was found alive at a gas station late Tuesday night, just over 24 hours after her kidnapping. A person of interest in the incident shot himself when approached by police on Wednesday afternoon.The young Maier was playing with her six-year-old brother, Blake, when investigators say she was kidnapped at around 8 p.m. CDT (0200 UTC) Monday evening. The brother ran inside the home to alert his parents after seeing an unfamiliar person drive away with his sister. Police say that the boy was the only witness to the incident, and provided them with a vague description of the suspect and vehicle in the case. Both of Maier's parents were inside their residence at the time of the abduction, and did not notice the incident until their son came in for help. Maier's mother attempted to pursue the kidnapper while waiting for police to arrive, but was unsuccessful.An Amber Alert was issued shortly afterwards, and over 100 searchers, some volunteers, began scouring through Louisiana on Tuesday morning. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) also joined in the investigation. Currently, the Louisiana Police Department, Missouri State Highway Patrol, FBI, and St. Louis County Police Department, are all involved in the investigation.At around 9:45 p.m. CDT (0245 UTC) Tuesday, Maier was found alive and apparently unharmed wandering near a car wash in Fenton. St. Louis County police were alerted to the area after several people reported that a small boy had been left unattended at the gas station. After talking with the child, police realized it was the missing Maier. She was taken to SSM St. Clare Medical Center for evaluation, released, and then taken to the St. Louis County Police West County Precinct. Early Wednesday morning, she was taken to another hospital, SSM Cardinal Glennon Children's Hospital, for more tests. Police said that Maier's hair was cut, possibly to make her look like a boy, but have not said whether she was sexually assaulted.Maier's family was said to be "elated" over the girl's safe return. They recently moved into the town of 4,000, where they have family, but Alisa Maier was born in Ohio. Louisiana is about 80 miles (128.7 kilometres) north of St. Louis and is situated next to the Mississippi River.On Wednesday afternoon, law enforcement officials were following a man driving a dark car to a home in Hawk Point, Missouri when the man reportedly shot himself around 4:30 p.m. CDT (2130 UTC). The man, called a "person of interest" in the case, was then transported to a Lake St. Louis hospital. Authorities have not officially released the man's identity, but sources identified the individual as Paul Serling Smith, a 38-year-old registered sex offender previously convicted of sodomy. The shooting occurred about midway between where the kidnapping took place and where Maier was found. Smith was listed in "critical condition" Wednesday night, and later died.Smith was reportedly spray-painting his car silver when three police officers approached him. He refused to put down a handgun he was carrying and shot himself in the head. According to one official source, police were able to find the man through a tip from one of Smith's relatives.A Richmond Hill, Ontario man is currently released after he was abducted and escaped last night.Chee Kian Jeff Chan, 28, was forced by three people into a black Mercedes SUV (which was caught on security camera) in the parking garage of his condominium at 23 Oneida Cresant in the Yonge Street and High Tech Road area. A small amount of blood was found at the scene. He was dropped off at an unnamed location in Toronto Wednesday night.The suspects were wearing black clothes and balaclavas covering their faces at the time of the incident. The licence plate number of the Mercedes SUV is not known because there was no plate on the front of the vehicle.Chan walked into the Major Mackenzie Dr. W. police station, at about 6:45 p.m. last night, suffering from injuries and went to a hospital for examination.York Regional Police say that he is a poker player, after hearing about a man with the same name that took seventh place at the River Rock Casino Resort near Vancouver, British Columbia on November 19, 2005, earning him $44,753.No ransom note was received and police believe that it was an extortion attempt."He was unaware of a lot of things during his ordeal," Constable Laurie Perks said.  "He didn't know what they looked like. His vision was concealed and so he therefore didn't know where he was through most of his ordeal."It is believed that Chan's three captors released him after 28 hours because of the media coverage surrounding his disappearance.The investigation is still ongoing.A 13-year-old male student, Clay Moore, from Parrish, Florida, was abducted at gunpoint earlier this morning shortly before 9:00 AM while waiting for his school bus with about 15 other students. A male believed to be around 30 years old and reportedly between 5 feet, 7 inches and 5 feet, 8 inches, drove up and motioned him into his faded red extended-cab pickup truck. Witnesses reported that Moore, a student at Manatee School for the Arts, told the unknown abductor, "Sir, I don't know you." before leaving with the man, who looked Hispanic or like a white male "with a dark tan". A student on the scene called 911 to inform the authorities of the abduction. An Amber Alert was put out for Moore, who is about 5 feet tall and was wearing a Manatee School for the Arts jacket over a green polo shirt.Clay Moore was found later, near Kibbler Ranch off of State Road 64, according to Sheriff Charlie Wells, with no visible injuries. He used a cell phone to call his mother and tell her that he was safe. "We believe it was somebody else's cell phone, somebody that was rendering aid to him, and allowed him to use the phone," Wells said.The abductor has not been located as of now, but the authorities are investigating.The abductors of American journalist Jill Carroll released today a silent 20-second video of the abducted journalist on Al-Jazeera television news channel. Along with the video came a statement demanding the United States release all female prisoners in Iraq within 72 hours or they will kill her. Al-Jazeera has not revealed where the video was sent from.In the video, Carroll is seated in front of a white background, apparently speaking, although the tape contained no sound. She appears pale and tired with long brown hair parted in the middle and pulled back from her face.Carroll is a 28-year old freelance reporter working for the Christian Science Monitor newspaper in Iraq since October 2003.  She was kidnapped on January 7 in one of Baghdad's most dangerous neighborhoods. Just after leaving the office of a Sunni Arab politician, Adnan al-Dulaimi, her car was ambushed by gunmen who killed her Iraqi translator. The driver got away unharmed as he was pulled from the car by the gunmen who then drove away with the vehicle.Carroll's family has issued a statement pleading for mercy. Both Al-Jazeera and the editors of the Boston, Massachusetts-based paper have also called for her safe release. According to Reporters Sans Frontieres, a Paris, France-based advocacy group, Carroll is the latest of 31 journalists to be abducted in Iraq since the war began in March 2003.  Six journalists have been killed by abductors, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists.File:Jack Abramoff Jan1006.jpgJack Abramoff, the disgraced ex-lobbyist began his six year prison sentence today. Abramoff himself pled guilty on January 3,  to three criminal felony counts in a Washington, D.C. federal court related to the defrauding of American Indian tribes and corruption of public officials. The following day he pled guilty to two criminal felony counts in a separate federal court, in Miami, related to his fraudulent dealings with SunCruz Casinos.On March 29, he was sentenced to five years and 10 months in prison and ordered to pay restitution of more than $21 million. His prison sentence was the minimum permitted under a plea bargain with federal prosecutors. Abramoff arrived at about 6:30 a.m. ET at a prison facility in western Maryland and began serving a nearly six-year prison sentence for a fraudulent deal to buy a fleet of casino ships in Florida. The camp is all male.Stephen Finger, executive assistant at the prison, said all inmates work while there. Incoming inmates such as Abramoff typically are assigned to jobs such as food service work. Finger said that inmates can work their way up from low-level jobs paying 12 cents an hour to better positions paying up to 40 cents an hour.Abramoff has ties to many Republican officials including former Representative Bob Ney, two of former Representative Tom DeLay's Aides, Senator Conrad Burns (lost on Election Day) and Representative John Doolittle.Jack Abramoff pled guilty today to charges of mail fraud, tax evasion, and conspiracy charges stemming from the Indian Tribes investigation.Abramoff, founder and former chairman of the International Freedom Foundation and former member of the Board of Directors of the National Center for Public Policy Research, reportedly agreed to cooperate in the prosecutor's case against Abramoff's former business partners, who are subjects of the SunCruz Casinos fraud investigation.  Part of the three-count indictment charged Abramoff with influence-peddling a House Representative's Scotland golf trip with US$50,000.  The money in question was solicited from an Indian Tribe in Texas by Abramoff, and is rumoured to have gone to Representative Bob Ney (R-OH).In exchange for his testimony, Mr. Abramoff is expected to be sentenced to a maximum of 10 years imprisonment, and will be allowed to serve sentences concurrently.  He is due in a Florida court on Wednesday in regards to the SunCruz case.Iraq's Abu Ghraib prison has been set alight during a riot.  The jail became notorious after prisoner abuse was discovered there after US forces took over.Wardens had been searching for drugs and banned items such as mobile phones when three inmates started a fire by burning a mattress. The fire injured three wardens but not prisoners, who began rioting. That injured three inmates. The Iraqi army responded and US helicopters assisted. The decision was later taken to evacuate the jail to other prisons around Baghdad.Iraqi media had claimed that there were fatalities, but this has been denied by authorities. According to a US military spokesman, the initial scuffle was an apparent escape attempt. There have also been reports of inmates being upset at conditions, although the justice ministry says it is now a model prison, under its new name of Baghdad Central Prison.Abu Ghraib, however, was not always a model prison. Under Saddam Hussein the jail was used for mass detention and murder of politically inconvenient people, and US soldiers have been caught torturing and sexually abusing prisoners, sparking public outrage and helping fuel the insurgency.File:Phoenix aerial Arizona USA1.jpgThe 29-year-old father of a 5-year-old Phoenix, Arizona girl is being accused of regularly beating his daughter over the past few months.KPHO-TV reported that Ezra Hazell abused the girl because she did not do her homework.Hazell was charged on Tuesday on five counts of child abuse.The girl's 25-year-old stepmother, Kristie Hazell, was also charged with two accounts of child abuse.Police report that wounds across the girl's back, buttocks, legs, arms and chest total 100.Police said that Hazell would order the girl to go into a push-up position, before beating her with a nylon military belt or a computer cord. Also, police said that one time, Hazell placed a book in front of the girl's head and if she got the answer to a question from the book wrong, he would beat her.The victim is now in the care of Child Protective Services.A school nurse reported the incident to police.According to a newly-released report compiled by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), bribes paid to police, military, and public officials over the past year have cost Afghan civilians collectively over US$2.5 billion, nearly the equivalent of a quarter of the country's legitimate GDP. Entitled "Corruption in Afghanistan", the report was based on polling of approximately 7,600 people in cities and villages around the nation. According to the report, 59% of those surveyed said that government sanctioned corruption was a more pressing concern to them than insecurity (54%) or unemployment (52%).The report adds that more than half the population had to pay out at least one bribe in 2009. Furthermore, in a country where the economic output is only $425 per person, the average bribe cost nearly $160. Three out of four bribes were paid in cash.Another finding is that one in every three Afghans believed that bribery was just a normal part of society. That being the case, only 9% of those surveyed—for whatever reason—ever chose to report these type acts to the proper authorities. The reports go on to say that there is a widely-held perception among 54% of Afghans that foreign nations and non-governmental organizations are just in their country "to get rich."The head of the UNODC, Antonio Maria Costa, said in a statement to the international media, "The Afghans say that it is impossible to obtain a public service without paying a bribe. Bribery is a crippling tax on people who are already among the world's poorest."Costa went on to note that there is a "new caste of rich and powerful individuals who operate outside the traditional power and tribal structures and bid the cost of favors and loyalty to levels not compatible with the under-developed nature of the country. Criminal graft has become similarly monumental, perverse and growing and is having political, economic and even security consequences.""It's time to drain the swamp of corruption in Afghanistan, to stop money and trust disappearing down a big black hole. Corruption is the biggest impediment to improving security, development and governance in Afghanistan." This report was released Tuesday, nine days before a scheduled international conference on Afghanistan in London. There, Afghan President Hamid Karzai is expected to face criticism for his perceived passive stance on corruption from the coalition of nations—especially the United States—that have thousands of troops committed to Afghanistan as part of the Global War on Terrorism.President Karzai was sworn in for a second five-year term last November after a controversial and hard-fought election during which he was widely accused of various types of fraud. Nevertheless, he has staunchly defended his record on corruption, stating that the entire issue had been "blown out of proportion by Western media."A family has a video of what they claim to be "Tigger" punching their son. Visiting the Disney-MGM Studios on Saturday, Jerry Monaco Jr. of New Hampshire alleges that Tigger purposely punched him without provocation. The footage was caught on the family's video camera, and the Monacos and their attorney are demanding an apology from the actor.The costumed character actor at the time was employee Michael J. Fedelem.The contact between the actor's mitted hand and the teen's face is brief. The video shows the following sequence of events:Monaco Jr.'s left arm is moving behind Tigger, while Tigger's right arm is on Monaco Jr's shoulders.Tigger abruptly moves his right arm down and around, sweeping Monaco Jr.'s left arm off of his back, pinning Monaco Jr.'s arm to his body.Tigger then starts rotating clockwise, wherein Tigger's left arm moves across his body.  It appears that Tigger briefly pulls down on his chin, in what looks like a move to possibly prevent the head from flying off.Monaco Jr. stumbles, in combination with his arm being pinned and Tigger's rotation.Tigger's left hand appears to hit Monaco Jr.'s head or face.Monaco Jr. appears to hit Tigger in the head area with his free right hand.The footage is very brief. It shows little before or after the punch, a total of only four seconds. Jean Erik Redrupp, General Manager of Park Operations, stated to Local 6 that "I just wanted to follow up with you and let you know that we have spoken to the cast member in question and have reacted very strongly toward him."Monaco Sr. told the station that "The general manager apologized to me. Everybody will come up and apologize to me but Tigger. He won't be a man about it and get out of the costume and come out and apologize to my son. I didn't want VIP treatment. I didn't want an extra day at Disney. I didn't want any of that. I wanted him to apologize and that is the one thing that they won't do." In the statement, he did not clarify whom "everybody" was.Both Disney and the Orange County Sheriff's Office launched investigations on Saturday. Fedelem has been suspended by the company until the investigation is complete. Disney commented in a statement to CBS News that: "We received the complaint alleging that a character struck a guest; guest and character altercation is not tolerated. The Orange County sheriff is launching an investigation and we are conducting our own investigation and we have suspended the cast member pending the outcome."Monaco Sr. took his son to the hospital the night after the altercation. Monaco Jr. claimed that he had neck pains. "I'm a little sore and most of the pain is gone because I have medicine," he told the CBS Early Show today.In footage, Monaco has no visible bruising.The videotape was in regular rotation on news stations on Sunday and Monday. As of 4:00 pm ET 8 January 2007, Google News listed over five hundred news outlets filing stories on the incident.Two men charged after the body of a Chinese student was stuffed into a suitcase and thrown into Auckland's harbour on Good Friday would deny their guilt, a court was told today.One of them appeared in Auckland District Court today to be confronted with the charge of kidnapping a 19-year-old English language student, ransom and murder. The other accused appeared on a charge of hiding evidence for the murder. They have been granted name suppression until their next appearance in court. According to lawyers, pleas of not guilty would be entered.The man accused of killing a Laval, Quebec police officer on March 2, 2007 was released Tuesday on a CA$200,000 bail.Basil Parasiris has been charged with several offences stemming from a drug raid carried out by police in the early morning hours of March 2. Among the alleged offences are a first-degree murder charge in the shooting death of Constable Daniel Tessier, attempted murder in the wounding of Tessier's partner, Stephane Forbes, and several weapons offences. Parasiris will remain free on bail pending a preliminary hearing to be held in August of this year.For his part, Parasiris has not denied that the shooting took place, and has apologized to Tessier's family. He claims that he was acting in self defence, as he didn't know that it was police entering his house in a planned raid, and instead believed intruders had broken in. "I'm really, really sorry (about) what happened. My condolences to the Tessier family," Parasiris told CTV News. "I honestly thought there was a home invasion or something."The judge overseeing the bail proceedings, ruled that Parasiris would not pose an immediate threat to society, but did place strict conditions on his release. While awaiting trial, Parasiris, 41, will have to live with his father, obey a curfew, and not travel outside Canada.In what is believed to be the first ruling of its kind in Canada, releasing on bail a defendant charged with killing a policeman, the judge criticized some of the police tactics used during the raid. Justice Jean-Guy Boilard of the Quebec Superior Court noted that the police didn't use a "knock notice" before entering Parasiris' house, but rather used a battering ram to break down the door. When serving a warrant under normal conditions, police are to knock at the door and identify themselves. Jacques Larochelle, Parasiris' lawyer, indicated that he will contest the warrant's legality.The prosecution argued that, even if it was not clear to Parasiris that police were entering his home, he should not have been so reckless with a gun.During the fatal raid on the Parasiris home in March, police collected four loaded handguns, as well as a small amount of drugs and cash. According to reports, the 357-magnum handgun allegedly used by Parasiris to shoot the officers was legally registered.The Canadian parliament's Ethics Commission said former immigration minister, Judy Sgro, did nothing wrong and her staff had put her into a conflict of interest.  Harjit Singh, the pizza shop owner who signed an affidavit accusing her of offering help for him to stay in Canada in exchange for pizza deliveries and help on her election campaign, admitted he lied. The controversies forced Ms. Sgro to resign from her post in January.Ms. Sgro read a letter from Mr. Singh in the House of Commons Tuesday. "Reputations should not be tarnished by unsubstantiated allegations and innuendo solely for partisan politics,” she added.After a 17-year fight to stay in Canada, Mr. Singh was deported to India in February. In his letter he said: "I now admit that I did not have a meeting with Judy Sgro. Further, at no time, did Judy Sgro request any campaign assistance from me nor did she help me with my immigration problems. I am providing this apology and retraction voluntarily and of my own free will."In a press conference, Ms. Sgro also discussed the confidential letter she'd received from ethics commissioner Bernard Shapiro. In his letter informing her of the commission's decision Mr. Shapiro wrote "It appears that you have acted appropriately but that your staff did not.” The report on the incident from the commission is not actually finished, according to the commissioner, but he said Ms. Sgro was free to release the letter.File:Nadine Strossen 5 by David Shankbone.jpgThere are few organizations in the United States that elicit a stronger emotional response than the American Civil Liberties Union, whose stated goal is "to defend and preserve the individual rights and liberties guaranteed to every person in this country by the Constitution and laws of the United States".  Those people include gays, Nazis, women seeking abortion, gun owners, SPAM mailers and drug users.  People who are often not popular with various segments of the public.  The ACLU's philosophy is not that it agrees or disagrees with any of these people and the choices that they make, but that they have personal liberties that must not be trampled upon.  In Wikinews reporter David Shankbone's interview with the President of the ACLU, Nadine Strossen, he wanted to cover some basic ground on the ACLU's beliefs.  Perhaps the area where they are most misunderstood or have their beliefs most misrepresented is their feelings about religion in the public sphere.  The ACLU categorically does not want to see religion disappear from schools or in the public forum; but they do not want to see government advocacy of any particular religion.  Thus, former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore's placement of a ten ton monument to the Ten Commandments outside the courthouse is strenuously opposed; but "Lone Ranger of the Manger" Rita Warren's placement of nativity scenes in public parks is vigorously defended.  In the interview, Strossen talks about how certain politicians and televangelists purposefully misstate the law and the ACLU's work in order to raise funds for their campaigns.David Shankbone's discussion with Strossen touches upon many of the ACLU's hot button issues:  religion, Second Amendment rights, drug liberalization, "partial-birth abortion" and whether or not George W. Bush should be impeached.  It may surprise the reader that many ideas people have about the most visible of America's civil libertarian organizations are not factually correct and that the ACLU often works closely with many of the organizations people think despise its existence.Late last month, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) filed objections to the United States Government's 'secret' attempts to obtain Twitter account information relating to WikiLeaks. The ACLU and EFF cite First and Fourth amendment issues as overriding reasons to overturn government attempts to keep their investigation secret; and, that with Birgitta Jonsdottir being an Icelandic Parliamentarian, the issue has serious international implications.The case, titled "In the Matter of the 2703(d) Order Relating to Twitter Accounts: Wikileaks, Rop_G, IOERROR; and BirgittaJ", has been in the EFF's sights since late last year when they became aware of the US government's attempts to investigate WikiLeaks-related communications using the popular microblogging service.Grey Deacon, a spokesman of the Minuteman Project, told the "Worldnet RadioActive" show in an exclusive interview on April 14 that representatives from the American Civil Liberties Union are now criminally involved in helping illegal entrants cross the US border and avoid detection.  He alleges that the ACLU activists are making noise and flashing lights to alert potential illegals to move on to a non-patrolled area of the border."The ACLU's position is that illegal aliens have a right to enter our border and stay in this country as long as they want," said Deacon. "That's what one of the leaders of the group told me personally."These allegations exist despite the ACLU's officially stated position of not directly interfering with the Minutemen's activities.  The ACLU's press release of March 30 affirmed that the participation of ACLU members would be strictly limited to being "neutral observers" and "recorders", not "participants", according to ACLU of Arizona Board President Stan Furman, a former Arizona State Senator."We recognize the right of a country to defend its borders," said Eleanor Eisenberg, Executive Director of the ACLU of Arizona, "but it must be done by the proper authorities and in a humane way," suggesting that the primary concern on the ACLU in interacting with the Minuteman Project was to prevent violence.The ACLU also quotes prior allegations against the group that sponsors the Minutemen, writing that they are "alleged to have engaged in activities that go beyond First Amendment-protected activity and that is intended to intimidate, harass or otherwise interfere with the rights of others."Two days before the beginning of the G20 summit in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania activists are already claiming harassment from police officers.  The ACLU is filing charges against the Pittsburgh Police Department after claiming that "more than 30 Pittsburgh police officers with semi-automatic weapons" raided a Seeds for Peace food truck in the middle of the night and demanded to search it even though they lacked a warrant.  After refusing to allow them to search the truck, the suit claims, the officers then arrested the activists for two hours on loitering charges.  Officers claim they raided the food truck for "national security" reasons.  Activist groups Seeds of Peace Collective and Three Rivers Climate Convergence denounced "systematic attempts to harass and discourage lawful First Amendment activities," after filing a complaint on Monday against the Pittsburgh Police Department.  The suit focuses on three separate incidents that include the midnight raid on the truck, as well as several other citations given to owners of the vehicle at different points during the past two days.The Seeds of Peace Collective drives a bus that runs on vegetable oil and was founded in 1986 to provide food and water to protesters. "I'm not going to comment on [the ACLU lawsuit], nor will I, throughout this week, get into the back and forth of any organization that may decide to sue our police department or may decide to take us to court," said Pittsburgh mayor Luke Ravenstahl.  The collective was still able to provide food for 200 people yesterday at the Three Rivers Climate Convergence.  "We got food out tonight. That brings my morale up," said Katy Kelly, with Seeds of Peace.Protesters are coming to Pittsburgh this week to advocate everything from universal health care to an end to capitalism.Visibly relieved and sobbing as the verdict was read, Robert Blake was acquitted on all counts and walked out of the courtroom yesterday a free man.Charged with murdering his wife, the jury acquitted Blake due to lack of evidence. He was also charged with two counts of soliciting to have his wife Bonnie Lee Bakley killed. The jury acquitted him on one count, and the judge dismissed the second after the jury became deadlocked in an 11-1 vote.He was greeted by a crowd of cheering supporters outside the courthouse. The star of the television series Baretta crushed out one of his trademark cigarettes and spoke to the gathering, thanking his lawyers and private investigators who he described as, "This small band of dedicated warriors that saved my life."In a speech that lasted 30 minutes, he talked of having to spend $10 million for his defense and said that he was now a poor man who needed a job. The 71 year-old actor also said he was ready to "cowboy it...Get in a motor home or van, feel the wind in my hair and find a little bar in Arizona or someplace."The prosecution, which did not seek the death penalty, painted Blake as caught in a loveless marriage with Bakley. Tricked into marrying her by his love of their daughter Rosie, now 4, they claimed that he had felt trapped by a woman who had a history of being a low-life grifter. They alleged that Blake, frustrated after trying to find someone to kill his wife for him, killed her himself. They also claimed that he was the trigger man who, after dining with his wife in their favorite restaurant, put two bullets in her head as the two of them sat in their car outside. The jury foreman in the trial, Thomas Nicholson, described the prosecution case against Blake as "flimsy." He said "they could never connect all the links in the chain. We couldn’t put the gun in his hand." Blake's defense team was also able to successfully discredit witnesses who testified on the solicitation charges.British actor Ryan Thomas has become involved in a vehicle collision in Manchester, England.  The actor, who is aged 25 and plays the character of Jason Grimshaw in ITV soap-opera Coronation Street, was believed to be involved in a collision involving his Chrysler striking a lamppost.  This occurred at around 0400 GMT on October 31 in the city centre of Manchester.It has been reported that Ryan has been taken away for questioning by the police. Another man was also arrested in connection with this incident, and was later charged with the offence of driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol, according to recent reports. Thomas was however not charged with offences relating to the accident.A spokesperson for the Greater Manchester Police has said the following about this incident: "Police were called following a report of a collision. Officers attended and found a Chrysler had collided with a lamp-post. A 25-year-old was interviewed by police on Friday 6 November 2009."Angry fans of the AEK Athens football team damaged the ferry "Ierapetra" during the route from Heraklio, Crete, to the port of Rafina in Attica. About 700 AEK supporters boarded the ferry after the end of the Greek football cup final between Olympiacos and AEK which took place in Crete. The victory of Olympiacos over AEK, 3-0, angered the supporters of AEK, which is believed to be the catalyst for damage in both the stadium and the ship. The Prosecutor ordered a preliminary inquiry into the incidents that took place onboard the Ierapetra. During the trip, a group of youths started breaking everything for no apparent reason. They caused extensive damage to the passenger lounges and the bars, while they responded to the crew’s pleas with cursing. A Greek police officer was injured in the leg by a flare, and a crewmember was also injured. The owner of the ship, Dane Sea Line of Piraeus, estimates the cost of damage to the ship at €150,000. The Greek media has accused the administration of Greek police and the Ministers of Public Order and Shipping of negligence in not doing more to prevent the events.Fans of the American hard rock band Aerosmith have launched legal action against the band in response to a late cancellation of a scheduled concert on the Hawaiian Island of Maui.Attorney Brandee Faria filed a class action suit in Hawaii Circuit Court on October 19.  The suit alleges that the band's cancellation cost fans between US$500,000 (€349,944) and $3 million (€2.1 million) in travel and accommodation costs, as well as other related expenses.The sold-out September 26 Maui concert - originally planned months before as the final show of a world tour that began in Brazil in April - was canceled by the band on the basis that they could not make it to the island in time after a September 24 concert in Chicago.  The Chicago concert, which attracted 18,000 people, was rescheduled at the last minute after the original September 10 concert date had been postponed due to illness.The band canceled the show at Maui's War Memorial Stadium, which was set to be attended by 9,000 people, and apologized to fans.  The band's management company, HK Management Inc., gave no initial reason when they canceled on September 20, but blamed logistical reasons by the next day. However, just days later, on September 29, the band traveled to the neighbor island of Oahu to play a corporate event in Honolulu for Toyota car dealers and private guests.  An audience of 6,000 people celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Japanese automobile manufacturer at the University of Hawaii, with Toyota paying $500,000 (€349,944) to hire the campus.  Aerosmith received $1 million (€700,000) to perform at the event.  Faria alleges that Aerosmith abandoned the scheduled public concert on Maui in favor of the more lucrative corporate event on Oahu."...Defendants simply canceled the only public performance by Aerosmith in favor of the larger Chicago venue and the lucrative, private concert for the Toyota car dealers," the complaint states.Local officials had hoped the concert would attract other big names to the island.Faria said that "I've had people contact me being out of pocket at much as $800 or $900," adding that if the cancellation is found to be deceptive ticket holders may be eligible for a minimum of $1,000 each. The complaint also says that those aged 62 or over should receive at least $5,000 each. Currently about a dozen ticket holders are  involved with the suit. If the action is approved by a judge, steps will be taken to contact everyone who purchased a ticket.In spite of the U.S. Government's "five pillar counternarcotics strategy" for combating narcotics in Afghanistan, approximately 140,000 hectares of poppies were planted in Afghanistan this year, according to the Associated Press. This would be an increase of about 40 percent from 2005. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime's Rapid Assessment Survey released last month indicates that poppy planting for 2006 increased in 13 provinces, decreased in only three and remained stable in 15.Afghan government officials are asking the drug lords to invest their illegally earned profits in Afghanistan, according to Helmand Gov. Mohammed Daud, the governor of the biggest opium-growing region. During a trip to the region by U.S. Ambassador Ronald Neumann, Daud said; "We as a government will provide them the opportunity to use their money for the national benefit."The narcotics trade currently accounts for 35 per cent of Afghanistan's income.Doug Wankel, a former Drug Enforcement Administration official who is point man for the U.S. counternarcotics initiative at the American Embassy in Kabul, says the opium industry is "financing terrorism. It's financing subversive activities. It's financing warlordism. ... And if it's a threat to the government of Afghanistan, it's a direct threat to the national security interests of the United States."The USA's "five pillar strategy" includes public information, alternative livelihoods, eradication, interdiction, and law enforcement/justice reform.An Afghan security officer opened fire on American troops while conducting a joint operation with them, Afghanistan officials reported. Two soldiers were killed and two others were injured.A spokesman for the governor of Wardak province said the shooting happened late on Friday, while both countries' forces were patrolling the area together. It was not immediately clear what motivated the shooting.NATO-led forces in Afghanistan released a statement saying two US soldiers died from wounds received in what they described as a "hostile attack", but did not give any further information.NATO reported that two other US troops died on Friday in a bomb attack in southern Afghanistan. Another died from injuries received after a bomb explosion in eastern Afghanistan. The violence comes as US and NATO armed forces have recently began to meet with stronger resistance from Taliban fighters.Afghan security officers have attacked US soldiers at least two times in 2008. One soldier was killed last October after an Afghan policeman threw a hand grenade at a foot patrol. About a month before that, an Afghan security officer started shooting at a police station, wounding three US soldiers and killing one.This year has been the deadliest for foreign troops in Afghanistan since troops entered the country almost eight years ago.A "rogue" policeman from Afghanistan has shot down and killed five British soldiers in the Helmand province of South Afghanistan today. According to the government, the attack happened in the Nad-e'Ali District of Helmand. All the soldiers died from their wounds. The officer opened fire and injured several other troops, before fleeing the scene. At least eight others were injured."One individual Afghan National Policeman, possibly in conjunction with another, went rogue. His motives and whereabouts are unknown at this time," said a spokesperson for the UK armed forces. Authorities are still searching for a suspect.Three of the soldiers were from the Grenadier Guards while the other two were from the Royal Military Police. They had been living with the police in a compound.This raised the death toll of British troops killed in Afghanistan to 229 this year, the highest in any year since the 1982 Falklands War. Lt. Col. David Wakefield expressed his deepest sadness at the deaths. "Five British soldiers, five of our own, shot down in the course of their duty. They will not be forgotten," he said. British Prime Minister, Gordon Brown said,"The death of five brave soldiers in a single incident is a terrible loss. My thoughts, condolences and sympathies go to their families, loved ones and colleagues. I know that the whole country too will mourn their loss."A governor of the German-garrisoned province of Kunduz, Afghanistan was killed by a bomb attack in a mosque while attending Friday prayers in Taloqan. Faiz Mohammad Tauhidi, a spokesman for the governor of Takhar, confirmed that Mohammad Omar was killed by the blast along with twenty others. Up to thirty five may have been hurt in the attack, but the number of injuries is not yet clear. A Taliban spokesperson confirmed that the group was responsible for the bombing.Mr Omar was killed by a bomb as he was leaving the Shirkat Mosque. He was born in Takhar province, and as a politician had close relationships with the President of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai. Abdul Jabar Taqwa, governor of Takhar, said he was upset by the attack. "He was the target, and the terrorists were able to kill him," he said. "This is a big loss for us because Mohammad Omar was a very brave and good governor." Three attempts have previously been made on his life, and his brother was assassinated last year by the Taliban.Last week Mr Omar announced plans to increase efforts to stop the Taliban, who started attacking NATO troops in Kunduz three years ago. Since the invasion, attacks have been frequent. Mr Omar had previously served as the mayor of Taloqan between 1991 and 1992. During the civil war, he was a member of the Islamic Dawah Organisation of Afghanistan for a short period of time, before he was appointed as the governor of Baghlan Province, a position he served between 2001 and 2003.The NATO-led International Security Assistance Force said they were aware of the attack, but did not comment further. Provincial Security chief Shah Jahan Noori agreed that the governor was the main target of the attack. It has not yet been confirmed whether the bomb was planted near the mosque beforehand, or whether Mr Omar was killed by a suicide bomber. "The situation is chaos, we do not know whether it was a suicide attack or whether the bomb was already planted in the mosque," Noori said.Zardad Faryadi Sarwar (also known as Zardad Khan and Commander Zardad), a warlord who controlled several checkpoints at the road between Kabul and Jalalabad in Afghanistan in the early 1990s, was convicted today of torture and hostage-taking. The Court at Old Bailey in London found that Zardad pursued a reign of fear along his checkpoints and ordered summary executions and torture of innocent civilians. He was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment.Zardad denied all charges throughout the trials, and claimed he had been set up by enemies in Afghanistan."I have never killed anybody and if anybody in the whole of Afghanistan can produce that evidence against me then I will accept that crime," he said.The case is considered to be a landmark in international law. British law allows the prosecution of crimes like torture and hostage-taking in the UK even if no British citizen was involved and the incidents occurred overseas. "There are some crimes which are so heinous, such an affront to justice, that they can be tried in any country", Attorney-General Lord Goldsmith said.Zardad fled to the UK in 1998 after he had fought both the Russians and the Taliban in Afghanistan's long civil war. He settled in a suburban London home and was first confronted by BBC Journalist John Simpson in 2000. Simpson's report sparked a lengthy investigation that would eventually lead to British prosecutors travelling to Afghanistan and questioning Zardad's victims. A first trial began in 2004 but failed because the jury couldn't agree on a verdict.Safia Ahmed-jan, the director of the Afghan Ministry of Women's Affairs for the Khandahar province and an advocate of women's rights and a strong critic of the Taliban's repression of those rights, was shot dead by unidentified gunmen outside her home in Khandahar city in southern Afghanistan on Monday. Safia Ama-jan, as she was known locally, is the first woman official to be targeted by the Taliban-led insurgency since it was deposed in 2001.Tajikistan will now protect their border unaided by Russia, as Pyandzh unit border guards leave the area. The guards continued to protect part of the Tajik-Afghan border until September 1, having begun in a 1993 intergovernmental agreement.Russian Border Service deputy Lt. Gen. Viktor Trufanov told Interfax newswire: "The last sector of the Afghan-Tajik border under the control of the Pyandzh unit of Russian border guards was transferred to our Tajik colleagues on September 1 in conformity with the intergovernmental agreement." This week, expert Russian border guard officers and tacticians have met with the Tajik State Border Committee, in order to assist in the turnover, according to chief of the border command Major-General Nikolai Kasharin.Since Russia took over border control duties in 1993, China View reports that 40,000 Tajik citizens have been trained by the guards, in anticipation of the handover.Tajikistan is a prime route for illegal drugs from Afghanistan, which is the world's top opium producer. Drug interdiction and stopping the transport of arms are both high on the list of border guard priorities.On August 22, Tajikistan border guards spotted and shot down a home-made aircraft carrying heroin, on route from Afghanistan.Tajik officials say that the piloted paraplane was transporting 18 kilograms of heroin above their southeast border. Border guards launched a search operation to find the pilot, believed to be wounded.The deputy head of Tajik's border troops, Sabza Sarkorov, said to the media that this was actually the first narcotics interception of its kind. Smugglers have used paraplanes to move drugs across the border for three years. Earlier attempts to bring them down have been unsuccessful until now. The country is a prime route for illegal drugs from Afghanistan, which is the world's top opium producer.In Kabul between 100 to 200 women protested the Shia Family Law and were met by a mob of 800 counterdemonstrators who were mainly men and Shia clergy. Many women were prevented from attending the protest by male family members and were denied entry to board buses by public transportation employees.  The Shia Family Law was passed for the 3 to 6 million Shia Muslims who reside in Afghanistan. Under the law, women must not refuse the husband's sexual demands, women must comply to intercourse every four days unless sick, women may not gain employment or receive education without their husband's permission, wives leaving home must do so with male escort or with permission and they must dress up and wear cosmetics according to the husband's desires. Refusal to do any of these would be illegal for the woman and can be enforced — the husband may stop feeding her."If a woman says no, the man has the right not to feed her," said Ayatollah Mohammed Asif Mohseni, Shia cleric.The protest began outside Mohseni's Khatam Al Nabi mosque and School of the Last Protest, and continued 2 miles (3.2 km) onward to parliament where they delivered a petition to repeal the law. Mohseni, a leading Shiite cleric in Afghanistan, was instrumental in implementing the new law."This law is against Islam and it's against women. It's against the people of Afghanistan." said Sima Ghani, an organiser for the women's protest, "Women have God-given rights. But these men are claiming those rights in the name of culture. It is against everything God has ever given us."Women attending Khatam-ul-Nabieen Shia University marched in a separate protest in favour of the Law. The University, which is attached to the Shia mosque, also receives funding from Mohseni.Counterdemonstrators chanted "Slaves of the Christians", "Down with the Christians. Down with the apostates", "Death to the enemies of Islam!", "We want Islamic law!", "death to America", and "Death to the slaves of the Christians!", and picked up stones and threw them at the women protestors.  One man yelled out to the female protestors, "You are a dog!  You are not a Shiite woman!"  Men shouted “Get out of here, you whores!  Get out!” as female protestors were disembarking from a bus.The Marefat School had windows broken and doors torn down. Teachers were attacked and stoned by counter protestors who believed Aziz Royesh, the headmaster, had assisted the women's protest.The United Nations has reported that women have received death threats if they defy the new law. Sitara Achakza, a Woman's rights activist and member of Kandahar's provincial council, was murdered at her home on Sunday, April 12 by Taliban gunmen.Another woman protestor, Masuma Hasani, said "I am concerned about my future with this law.  We want our rights.  We don't want women to just be used.""Go home if your mothers and fathers are Muslims. These people will beat you if you stay," yelled out a Shia cleric.Women carried banners reading "We want dignity in the law" and "Islam is justice". Women who participated in the hazardous and rare protest defied customs; some wore jeans, others uncovered their faces."We think those who oppose this law in fact oppose the Koran. This law does not approve rape, it is rather about loyalty of wife to husband and husband to wife. Rape is what you can see in the West, where men don't feel responsibility for their wives and leave them to go with several men." said Nesa Naseri, counterprotestor and a female student of Sharia Studies."Whenever a man wants sex, we cannot refuse. It means a woman is a kind of property, to be used by the man in any way that he wants," said Fatima Husseini, 26, a female protestor.The law has had separate interpretations because at one point during the rally both sides chanted “We want honour and dignity for women", and "Allah Akbar," or God is great.Politically it has been said that Afghan President Hamid Karzai signed the legislation as an appeasement to the Shiite religious clerics in the face of the presidential re-elections in August. The Taliban who ruled Afghanistan for five years ending in 2001 imposed similar laws, when the burqa was imposed for women's wear and women were required to obtain permission from a male relative to exit the house.Whereas the Afghan Constitution legally upholds sexual equality, and Afghanistan at one time signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it also upholds its constitutional prerogative to place Islamic beliefs ahead of all other practices.  Karzai has asked the Justice Department to review the law, and the legal enforcement of the law shall be placed on hold.  Homayun Hamidzada, a spokesman for Karzai, says the law is not legally binding until it is published in the government register which means it can be modified.Hamidzada said, "We have no doubt that whatever comes out of this process will be consistent with the rights provided for in the Constitution — equality and the protection of women.""We Afghans don't want a bunch of NATO commanders and foreign ministers telling us what to do," said Mohammed Hussein Jafaari, a cleric.Mariam Sajadi said "We don't want foreigners interfering in our lives. They are the enemy of Afghanistan."  "We must trust Allah, instead of listening to the Western countries and the European countries who come here to meddle and interfere." said Sayed Sajat of the counter protest."Afghan women have raised their voices and they proved this isn't what the international community is imposing on Afghanistan, these are the demands of Afghan women," said Sabrina Saqeb a protest organiser and MP.Today, multiple bomb blasts at a Kabul Shi'a cultural centre, religious school, and Afghan Voice news agency killed at least 41 people and injured 84, Afghanistan's public health ministry spokesperson Waheed Majrooh said.According to reports it was a suicide attack. According to multiple reports and eye-witnesses, at least three explosions were heard. Militant group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) claimed the responsibility of this attack via Amaq News Agency. Children were gathered at the Tebyan cultural centre on the 38th anniversary of the Soviet invasion in mostly Sunni Afghanistan.In 2017, at least 73 attacks on journalists took place in Afghanistan, according to the Afghan Journalists Safety Committee. There have been multiple attacks on Shi'a Muslims in Afghanistan by ISIL. 39 were killed in an attack on October 21 at a Shi'a mosque in Afghan's capital Kabul. More than 80 were killed in another attack in May when a truck bomb detonated in Kabul's Wazir Akbar Khan area.Two French journalists kidnapped on Wednesday north-east of the capital Kabul are believed to be in good health, although the condition of their three Afghan assistants is unknown."The two French journalists appear to be alive, in good health and being well treated," said a source involved in the attempts to release them.According to another French journalist, suspected members of the Taliban captured them in the Kapisa province's Shinkai district, although the abductors have yet to claim responsibility.A local spokesman confirmed that the group of two journalists from France 3, their translator and his brother and cousin had been abducted, and that Afghan security forces along with French soldiers from the local NATO mission were looking for them.France Télévisions, who employs the journalists, has not confirmed the kidnapping, merely stating that they had received no news from them in the past 48 hours.A group of African refugees complained to the Helsinki Citizen's Assembly (HCA) Refugee Support Program that they were taken under custody and that they were forced to work for the Turkish police. According to H.R.M., a 38 years old refugee from Democratic Republic of Congo who has been in Turkey for the last 16 months, on November 30th, when the Pope was visiting Hagia Sophia and Sultan Ahmed Mosque, he and his twelve roommates decided not to go outside because of the rumours that blacks were being taken under custody by the Turkish police. However, when he ended up having to go outside to buy food at 10pm, he was taken under custody and put on a police car. H.R.M. claims to find himself in Sultanahmet area, where According to H.R.M.'s claims, this took about two hours, after which they were taken to a work site where they were made to empty the fences in the trucks. He tells:He complains that he was treated like a slave by the Turkish police. He says:Özlem Dalkıran, a spokeswoman for HCA Refugees Support Program told that they were receiving many reports of collective false arrests and forced labor and that they will be reporting these to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The İstanbul Police Office released a press statement that said they "do not think any response to the allegations would be appropriate". There are many illegal African immigrants in Istanbul seeking a way into Europe; which has led to conflicts with native Turks.Ugandan troops arriving in Somalia as part of an African Union (AU) peacekeeping force, came under attack even before they went on patrol.The Ugandan troops, 400 of whom arrived on Tuesday and another 400 the day after, were deployed to the capital Mogadishu as replacements for Ethiopian troops to support the Transitional Federal Parliament (TFP). Ethiopia intervened to help the TFP oust the Islamic Courts Union (IUC), which had held power for six months."Convoys of Ugandan troops were ambushed as they were passing the main junction in Mogadishu, and they exchanged heavy gunfire with the insurgents," said Shino Abdukadir, an eyewitness.Somalia's Deputy Defense Minister Salad Ali Jelle said the Ugandan troops suffered no casualties. There were 10 civilians killed in the attack.Assane Ba of the African Union said: "The AU has promised to deploy in Somalia and in Mogadishu. The attacks and threats do not set back the deployment."A Mogadishu radio station broadcast a message from IUC member and Hizbul Shabaab leader, Aden Hashi Ayro, calling for attacks on the peacekeepers. "It is time for the Somali youth to fight the occupation by Ethiopia and others. The Muslims shall not surrender to non-believers."A police officer has shot and killed his wife and two of their children at the train station in the French city of Noyon in the department of Oise, the local prosecutor said, after the wife had informed the officer of her intention to separate from him. Their sons were aged three and five; a third child, twin to the five year old victim, survived the attack and is in the care of child services. The killings took place around 11:30 local time (0930 UTC) on Sunday.The wife, born in 1983, called the gendarmes (police) in the morning, and they arrived to find her explaining to their five children about the domestic argument which had escalated. The husband returned while the police were present, and they reported he seemed calm and did not interfere with the children being moved to a neighbor's home, so they departed. The woman reportedly chose to leave her house when her husband was not there, and headed to the station, where the husband awaited them armed.After assassinating his family, the police officer committed suicide. The wife's family lived in Guiscard, near Noyon. The station at Noyon was closed after the incident. Late on Sunday, the police were searching for a witness who escaped after observing the events.On Monday, Eritrea reopened their embassy in the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa just a week after both the countries signed a declaration of the end of the two-decade-long conflict between the countries.71-year-old Eritrean President Isaias Afwerki raised the Eritrean flag in Addis Ababa and Ethiopian prime minister Abiy Ahmed handed Afwerki the keys for the embassy. Abiy said, "Both nations have chosen peace as opposed to war [...] We won't allow anyone to stop this from happening."A former province of Ethiopia, Eritrea voted in favour of a sovereign state and declared independence in 1993. The Eritrean embassy in Ethiopia was shut down in 1998 and, per reports, about 80 thousand were killed in the border conflict between the two nations from 1998 to 2000.The Ethiopian Prime Minister visited Eritrea earlier this month and on July 9, leaders of both countries signed a declaration of the end of the conflict in Eritrean capital Asmara. After announcing the end of the conflict, telephone lines were set up between the two countries and on Wednesday, Ethiopian Airlines flew the first direct plane between Ethiopia and Eritrea in twenty years. Chief Executive of the airlines Tewolde GebreMariam said, "This day marks a unique event in the history of Ethiopia and Eritrea".According to the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC), the city's taxi cab drivers overcharged their riders by more than US$8.3 million over the past two years, by setting their meters to illegally high settings.The agency reported that some taxi drivers set their meters so they would charge at the suburban fare, which is twice as high as the urban fare — within city limits, fare is 40 cents per 1/5 mile, outside city limits, 80 cents.  48,300 licensed cab drivers work in the city; according to data, 35,558 of them charged a rider inappropriately at least once, the city noted.  The statistics also say that 3,000 of drivers had doubled the rates 100 times or more.Riders who overpaid spent about $4.45 more per trip than they were supposed to, the commission said. 0.5% of all 361 million taxi trips taken in the past 26 were affected by inappropriate charging, the TLC reported.New York's mayor, Michael Bloomberg, commented about the findings in his radio show, saying: "Some of these people could face serious charges. Now, how we would ever recoup the money and get it back to the individual payers, no, but we can stop the practice and we can make sure there's penalties."The New York Taxi Workers Alliance, a taxi driver advocacy group, however, commented that the overcharging could have been due to technology problems, and not because drivers were intentionally raising fare. Bhairavi Desai, who is with the group, noted that "[t]here should be a thorough investigation before judgment is cast on an entire work force."Ahmad Wali Karzai, the half-brother of the Afghan President, Hamid Karzai, has been shot dead in Kandahar. Wali Karzai was head of the Kandahar Provincial Council at the time of his assassination. The perpetrator was Sardar Mohammed, the head of security in charge of protecting Karzai. Mohammed was killed instantly after the assassination.President Karzai released a statement after the killing of his brother. He said "This is the way of life for the people of Afghanistan. The homes of all Afghans feel this pain. Our hope is this (violence) will come to an end and peace and happiness come to our homes and will come to rule in our country."The motive as to why Mohammed would have killed Karzai remain unclear, but the Taliban have claimed responsibility for the assassination. Local politician Khaled Pashtun said he was sceptical about the Taliban's involvement. The group has claimed responsibility for several attacks and killings without evidence of their involvement.Karzai had survived several assassination attempts before. He escaped uninjured after a fuel tanker filled with bombs exploded near a building where he was hosting a meeting in 2008, and again in 2009 when his convoy was attacked by machine guns and rocket attacks.General David Petraeus, the commander of the International Security Assistance Force, said "President Karzai is working to create a stronger, more secure Afghanistan, and for such a tragic event to happen to someone within his own family is unfathomable." Another US offical told the BBC, "[Ahmad Wali Karzai] had his unsavoury side, but he was someone we could work with and he kept a lid on things in Kandahar."Soon after a UN report highlighted the food crisis facing Somalia, a ship carrying food aid to Somalia has been hijacked off the coast of the country and its ten crew members abducted. The pirates are demanding a ransom of half a million dollars for the return of the ship.Neither the UN World Food Programme (WFP) nor the ship's owners are willing to pay the ransom. Last year, pirates killed 30 sailors.The WFP hopes the ship will be released soon but cannot continue shipments until then because of safety concerns. If the ship is released soon, there will be no interruption in aid supply.The WFP believe the crew is still on board the ship and that the crew are "fine". They hope the ship will be returned to them shortly.The WFP supplies about 3,000 tons of food for about 275,000 Somalis per month, and the country currently has about two weeks of stocks left.Robert E. "Bob" Robideau, an Ashinaabe activist who was acquitted of killing two FBI agents and who was involved in the Leonard Peltier case, died on Tuesday February 16 after suffering seizures at his home in Barcelona, Spain, Robideau's family and Spanish authorities say. He was 61-years-old. Robideau had shrapnel in his head, UPI reports, from a 1975 incident in which ammunition in his car exploded.Robideau had been living and working in Barcelona as director of the American Indian Movement museum, after two stints as National-International Director for the Leonard Peltier Defense Committee. Robideau, Leonard Peltier, and Darelle "Dino" Butler were charged together for the shooting deaths of FBI Special Agents Jack R. Coler and Ronald A. Williams in South Dakota; the jury trying Robideau and Butler ruled that the killings had been in self-defense, but Peltier, who had fled the country, was tried separately and sentenced to two consecutive life sentences.Robert Robideau was born on November 11, 1946, a member of the Turtle Mountain and White Earth Ojibwa tribes and descendant of the chiefs Obe-quod and Ke-che-ha-kuk-kung-ay-we-ne-nee.The Colorado American Indian Movement released a statement on Robideau's passing, saying, "Bob was a great role model for AIM members everywhere. He epitomized what it was to be a member of AIM, not through posturing, not through rhetoric, but in action. He put his life on the line, and he was relentless in his defense of Indian people everywhere. He will be very deeply missed, and will always remembered".After joining the American Indian Movement in 1973, Robideau, along with Ward Churchill and Russell Means, split from Vernon Bellecourt's movement in 1993 and established the Autonomous American Indian Moment. Following his 1976 acquittal and Peltier's 1977 conviction for the FBI agent murders, Robideau became involved in work to free Peltier, but split from Peltier's defense team in 2004 over differences of opinion in the Anna Mae Aquash case. Robideau also appeared in the documentary Incident at Oglala, discussing the shootings.Robideau had degrees in anthropology from Portland State University and arts from the Institute of Native American Arts in Santa Fe, New Mexico. He is survived by his wife Pilar and his two sons, Michael and Bobby.An Australian air safety group claims that Yogyakarta International Airport was opearating illegally with no license when Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, a Boeing 737, crashed at the airport, killing 16 Indonesians and five Australians.Flight Safety Pty Ltd had been asked to carry out an independent investigation by an anonymous client after the March 2007 disaster, which occurred when the aircraft landed at excessive speed and shot off the end of the runway. Flight Safety has now announced that they have found Yogyakarta International had been granted a five year license but this would be withdrawn after twelve months if several conditions were not met. Since these conditions remained unchanged, the license effectively voided six months before the disaster, claim Flight Safety. One of the conditions was extension of the runway and provision of an adequate Runway End Safety Area (RESA). The group adds that it also conducted checks on Solo International Airport and Semarang International Airport, and that these airports also had invalid Airport Operating Certificates. The final report was not released at the time as the client in question felt it 'too sensitive', and Flight Safety says that it was rapidly covered up three months later when it leaked in Indonesia.The group says it notified the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), and that they in turn said the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) - who assisted in the crash investigation - was in control of the situation. However, Flight Safety claim that when approached, the ATSB denied knowing about it. Allegedly, the ATSB had missed the licensing discrepancy because they only checked the front page of the airport's license and did not conduct a detailed analysis of the small print.Flight Safety claim that the Indonesian Director of Aviation Safety told them that the situation had been rectified. However, the group have now conducted a re-audit and say Solo and Yogyakarta airports both remain illegal. They go on to accuse the ICAO, ATSB and Indonesian Director of Aviation Safety of "keeping quiet" and described them as 'compromised'.Flight Safety go on to claim that the survivors of the crash and relatives of the deceased have not been informed either, and say that this will have a serious effect on the compensation process and on any insurance claims. Crikey, an Australian news service, also suggested that AU$12 million of aid promised by Australia to help Indonesia improve air safety is also being misused. All Indonesia's air carriers are currently on the list of air carriers banned in the EU.An official statement by Flight Safety head Chris Weir concluded "It [the group's findings] should now be exposed as the safety issues remain unresolved."Mardjono Siswo Suwarno of the National Transport Safety Committee, the body responsible for investigating the disaster, denied that Yogyakarta Airport was illegal, saying "At that time [the license] was still valid, but the RESA was not long enough... But still in the [Garuda] case, even if the RESA length was adequate, the plane would have still overrun because the speed was 1.8 times normal speed."The final report found that the pilot-in-command, who has been arrested and charged over the crash, attempted to land after fifteen Ground Proximity Warning System activations to tell him he was landing too fast, and says that although a longer runway and full-sized RESA wouldn't have stopped an airliner traveling at such excessive speed it could have reduced the toll of deaths and injuries.The directors of Yogyakarta and Solo airports claim that since the re-audit they have taken steps to improve safety and rectify any problems, but have not actually admitted their airports were illegal. Indonesian director general of air transportation Budi Mulyawan Suyitno said that although local budget limitations have prevented some airports from being improved there are no problems currently at Yogyakarta, with improvements including declaration of a RESA for 140 metres of the 2,250 metre runway and stationing Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting trucks at the airport.A man who hijacked a domestic flight over Afghanistan has been found to be working for British Airways.34-year-old Nazamuddin Mohammidy was one of nine men who forced the Ariana Airlines airliner to divert to the United Kingdom's Stansted Airport in 2000. A standoff followed for the next 70 hours with the men, who had guns and hand grenades, threatening to kill all 160 on board unless asylum was granted to them. The men ultimately gave themselves up to police and SAS.Mohammidy was jailed for 30 months but he and the other eight had their convictions overturned by the Court of Appeal, claiming the Taliban was subjecting them to "medieval and brutal tyranny" forcing them to flee. They went on to win a High Court case to prevent their deportation.It has since emerged that British Airways have employed Mohammidy to clean their offices, including a training center one mile from Terminal 4 at Heathrow Airport. It came to light when police officers stopped him near Terminal 5 believing he may be an unlicensed taxi driver, but he was able to suppply a worker's pass. He is now facing unrelated charges concerning an alleged assault on his landlord.The Conservatives have used this as an opportunity to attack the current Labour government. Shadow home secretary David Davis said "It would be an outrageous and potentially devastating breach of security if a former hijacker had access to British Airways property near the airport and a pass allowing him access to secure areas. Days after it was revealed that foreign airside workers at our airports do not have to pass proper security checks it is clear the Government do not have a grip on airport security."British Airways say he did not have a pass to allow him onto the tarmac at Heathrow and did not work inside the airport, but he could get into some secure company areas.A Pegasus Airline flight carrying 178 passengers was hijacked today by a man named Mehmet Gökşin Göl. The plane took off from the town of Diyarbakır and headed toward Istanbul, Turkey's most populated city. Göl later gave himself up and surrendered to authorities at Ankara international airport in Turkey. Reports say he was attempting to divert the flight to Iran and that he is suffering from a mental illness.All passengers are safe and have been removed from the plane and there are no reports of injuries.The man, identified as Mehmet Gökşin Göl, entered the cockpit and threatened to blow up the plane, claiming to have an explosive device on board, Ankara Deputy Governor Hayati Soylu said. The man was not armed and did not have explosives.He was detained at Ankara's Esenboğa airport where pilots landed the Pegasus airline flight, which was going from Diyarbakır to Istanbul.There were 178 passengers on board, including three babies, the airline said. None of the passengers were hurt.There was no information as to why the man wanted to divert the plane to Iran.Fırat Keleş, a passenger on board, told a Turkish television network that the man could be seen reading the Koran during the flight. There was no panic on board, he said.This incident occurred six months after a man hijacked a flight en route to Istanbul in October 2006.An Al Jazeera cameraman working in Libya  was killed in an alleged ambush  on Saturday  as he was returning with his team to the rebel-held city of Benghazi. Al Jazeera, in an official statement, called the act a "cowardly crime" and  "part of the Libyan regime's malicious campaign targeting Al Jazeera and its staff".Ali Hassan al-Jaber, along with two colleagues,  was returning from a reporting assignment on an opposition protest in a nearby town, when unidentified gunmen opened fire on the car in which the group was traveling. Al Jaber was rushed to a hospital but a bullet had apparently penetrated his heart and he died. One of his colleagues was wounded.The director general of Al Jazeera Wadah Khanfar paid tribute to Jaber at the network's media forum. He said,  "He was one of those people who lived and eventually died in the pursuit of truth. We are determined to carry on regardless. We cannot sacrifice our lives except for noble causes. There is no nobler cause than the pursuit of truth."Al Jaber, a Qatari national, is the first journalist reported  to have been killed in the Libyan conflict. Reporters who were previously welcomed  by opponents of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi now feel threatened by Gaddafi supporters as his forces near Benghazi. There are signs that Gaddafi intends to drive the foreign press out of Libya. He has already announced that foreign reporters working in the east of the country are working for "Al-Qaeda." Many journalists are now planning to leave the city.The director of Al Jazeera, Wadah Khanfar, said that the killing of the cameraman followed "an unprecedented campaign" against  the news organization by Gaddafi. He said, "Al Jazeera reiterates the assault cannot dent its resolve to continue its mission, professionally enlightening the public of the unfolding events in Libya and elsewhere." He described the  people in  Benghazi who expressed support of the station once news of the ambush was reported.On Monday, Qatar-based news network Al Jazeera's Acting Director General Mostefa Souag said Snapchat's actions were "alarming and worrying" after the US-based messaging and media sharing platform blocked their channel from the discover publisher section in Saudi Arabia, following a request from the Saudi government. The block was introduced on Sunday, and the Saudi government accused Al Jazeera of content violating cyber crime laws of the kingdom.Mostefa Souag said Snapchat's action "sends a message that regimes and countries can silence any voice or platform they don't agree with by exerting pressure on the owners of social media platforms and content distribution companies. This step is a clear attack on the rights of journalists and media professionals to report and cover stories freely from around the world".A spokesperson of Snapchat's parent company, Snap, Inc., on Sunday, said, "We make an effort to comply with local laws in the countries where we operate". Al Jazeera's Snapchat content outside the discover channel can be accessed by Saudis. Snap, Inc. said the channel's content is available in fourteen Middle Eastern countries.Al Jazeera's website was blocked in Saudi Arabia and the UAE in late May, amid controversy over remarks allegedly made by Qatar. Four countries, Bahrain, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE broke their diplomatic ties with Qatar for allegedly supporting "extremists". Accused by those four nations of funding militant groups, Qatar was issued with a list of thirteen demands, including shutting down Al Jazeera, to lift the sanctions. In July, Egypt foreign ministry announced citizens of Qatar could no longer travel to Egypt without a visa, ending the visa-free travels to the country for Qataris. However, a spokesperson of the foreign ministry said those measures would not apply to Qatari students studying in Egyptian public universities, nor to partners or children of Egyptians.Al Jazeera's head of Incubation and Innovation Research, Morad Rayyan, said, "We are urging them [Snapchat] to review the decision that was made. They were the ones who invited us to be one of their news partners for the region."A warning has been sent out by Osama Bin Laden's lieutenant Ayman al-Zawahri saying that more attacks will be carried out because of Tony Blair's foreign policy decisions.The comments were from a videotape shown on the satellite television channel al-Jazeera. The message said was: "Blair has brought you destruction to the heart of London, and he will bring more destruction, God willing."Al-Zawahri also warned other nations to leave Muslim lands to avoid further violence. He was quoted as saying: "What you have seen, O Americans, in New York and Washington and the losses you are having in Afghanistan and Iraq, in spite of all the media blackout, are only the losses of the initial clashes, If you continue the same policy of aggression against Muslims, God willing, you will see the horror that will make you forget what you had seen in Vietnam."  Tony Blair has denied that his policies caused the July 7 bomb attacks. Downing Street has refused to comment on the tape.Police were on high alert today in London, with 6,000 officers watching for a repeat of the attacks two and four weeks ago and they continue to investigate the 7 July bombings and are holding 15 people in connection with the 21 July attempt.The President of Chad Idriss Deby has confirmed that the senior Al-Qaeda commander Abdelhamid Abou Zeid has been killed by French troops in Northern Mali. Abou Zeid is a senior commander in the Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb who are fighting French-backed Malian forces, he was killed along with 40 other militants four days ago in the Adrar des Ifoghas mountain range. He is believed to have been behind the abduction of 20 Westeners as well as the killings of British national Edwin Dyer in 2009 and French national Michel Germaneau in 2010.President Deby said in a statement on Friday: "Chadian forces killed two jihadi leaders, including Abou Zeid", "On February 22, we lost several soldiers in the Ifogha mountains after destroying the jihadists' base. This was the first time there was a direct confrontation with the jihadists". Chadian troops have been involved in helping to fight off troops as part of a wider African force and they have been playing a key role in trying to free Northern Mali.A French government spokesperson, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem warned that reports of his death were as yet unconfirmed. Al-Qaeda are currently holding seven French nationals hostages in Sahel and there are no confirmed reports that they have been executed.Al-Qaeda in Iraq has released video of Sudanese hostages that members of the organization have kidnapped last week.The video indicates that the militants intend to kill five kidnapped employees of the Sudanese Embassy in Baghdad in two days unless the Sudanese government removes its diplomatic mission from Iraq. Sudan has announced that it will abandon its embassy today, apparently in a bid to free the hostages.Al-Qaeda has said it will continue to launch more terrorist attacks on the U.S. and warned the death of their leader Osama bin Laden, would "not be wasted". The statement from the organization, posted on jihadist internet forums, came as the Pentagon released videos filmed inside the terrorist leader's compound which was raided last weekend. Intelligence officials said at a briefing in Washington, D.C. that the videos showed that bin Laden was still playing an active role in al-Qaeda plotting.Although the video tapes have no audio, they show bin Laden watching news coverage of himself on television and preparing to record a propaganda film. The tapes are the latest intelligence to emerge from computer equipment seized from bin Laden's compound during the raid on his compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan by U.S. special forces last weekend. Earlier this week it emerged bin Laden had been planning an attack on the American rail network on the tenth anniversary of the September 11 attacks this year. U.S. officials yesterday stressed that the al-Qaeda plot was only "aspirational", but involved derailing multiple trains by damaging rail lines at various sites. Tonight one intelligence official said the information gleaned from the computers was the "single largest collection of senior terrorist materials ever." The computer equipment also revealed that there were hopes of attacking major transportation hubs, and that during the six years he lived at the compound in Pakistan, bin Laden stayed in close contact with senior affiliates and played an active role in developing terrorist plots. An unnamed U.S. official told The New York Times that bin Laden "wasn't just a figurehead," but "continued to plot and plan, to come up with ideas about targets and to communicate those ideas to other senior al-Qaeda leaders."Confirming the death of bin Laden in a statement this week, al-Qaeda said his killing would be a "curse" on the U.S. and its allies. "Their happiness will turn into sorrow, and their blood will be mixed with their tears. We call upon our Muslim people in Pakistan, on whose land Sheikh Osama was killed, to rise up and revolt." The revelation that al-Qaeda was planning more attacks against the U.S. comes only several days after officials warned the terrorist group was likely to be plotting a revenge attack to avenge the death of bin Laden.Al Jazeera has aired two video tapes by Al Qaida on Thursday evening. In one of them, the terror group's second in command Ayman al-Zawahiri has claimed responsibility for the July 7 London bombings and threatened further attacks. The alleged leader of the London bombers, Mohammad Sidique Khan, appeared on a separate recording and outlined his reasons for the bombings.Speaking in English with a Yorkshire accent, Kahn stated that the Blair government is to blame for the attacks. He claimed that the West is backing governments who commit crimes against humanity. Western citizens should no longer feel safe, he said and threatened similar attacks upon them: "Until you stop the bombing, gassing, imprisonment and torture of my people we will not stop this fight. We are at war and I am a soldier. Now you too will taste the reality of this situation" Al-Zawahiri described the 7/7 attacks as "a slap to the policy of British Prime Minister Tony Blair" and called the attacks a response to the UK's foreign policy "just as 9/11 was a response to America's".Scotland Yard said they are "aware of the tape; we will consider it as part of our ongoing investigation". British Foreign secretarcy Jack Straw said there was "no excuse, no justification for terrorism of any kind".Gous Ali, a Muslim whose girlfriend was killed in the bombing, condemned the broadcast as being "wrong and all lies". "It's all brainwashing by some wacko scholar who believes his own version of the Koran and has made it his own battle. There is no holy war", he told the BBC.Muslim Council of Britain spokesman Inayat Bunglawala said that holding the British Public responsible for the war "is just plain wrong - this country was bitterly divided and many millions, perhaps the majority, clearly opposed the war."Experts are currently investigating the tape for possible clues.The American Library Association (ALA) is observing Banned Books Week 2005 from September 24 until October 1, the last week in September.  The ALA's list of suggested activities for members [1] includes various activities which draw attention to the books that have been challenged or banned within the last few years (see 100 Most Frequently Challenged Books of 1990–2000), such as posting lists, organizing readings, and assigning research papers on censorship in the U.S. to students.Attempts to ban books from library shelves rose by more than 20%, to 547 formal challenges, in 2004.  The most frequent attacked books included several with gay themes, including Maya Angelou's "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings."  The most challenged book was Robert Cormier's classic novel "The Chocolate War".    In Norwood Colorado, parents recently burned copies of Rudolfo Anaya's "Bless Me, Ultima" after having them pulled from the High School curriculum.Lam Luong, a 37 year old shrimp fisherman from Irvington, Bayou La Batre, Alabama, United States, has confessed to throwing his four children off an 80 feet high bridge after a fight with his wife the day before. Police have charged Luong with 4 counts of capital murder.Family members and friends told Fox News that the couple had been fighting over several things, including Luong's girlfriend, on Sunday evening and Monday morning. Luong later drove off with his four children, whom he reported missing to the police and claimed he had left them with his girlfriend who lives in a hotel. Police however became suspicious due to "holes in his story" and he later changed his story. The Associated Press say that the authorities believe that Dauphin Island Bridge is where Luong threw the four children, of which he was the biological father of three, into the water.Initially the family had feared that Luong had traded his children to fund a drug habit. Luong's wife, Ngoc Phan, is at the family home which they shared with her mother. She was not available to comment to the media, but other family members said that they still have hope that the children are alive.Police and other authorities are using divers, dogs and helicopters to search for the bodies in a 100-square-mile area with a total of 70 people on the case. The search had to be called off on Wednesday due to fog. Luong is scheduled to appear in court on Thursday January 10, 2008.The Supreme Court of Alabama yesterday ordered all judges to halt in issuing same-sex marriage licenses in the state. The ruling goes against an earlier order by the United States Supreme Court, allowing judges to issue same-sex couples a marriage license. The ruling said "As it has done for approximately two centuries, Alabama law allows for ‘marriage’ between only one man and one woman. Alabama[...] judges have a[...] duty not to issue any marriage license contrary to this law. Nothing in the United States Constitution alters or overrides this duty."David Kennedy, a lawyer who represented an Alabama couple who fought an earlier court ruling, said "I don't really think that they can do that. I'm not surprised, but I'm somewhat appalled. The Supreme Court of the United States ruled that the stay (on the order striking down the gay marriage ban) would expire on Feb. 9. On Feb. 9, same-sex marriage effectively became legal in Alabama". He added "Whenever state law conflicts with federal law, federal law wins".The issue of same-sex marriage has been contested over recent months. Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore had told judges not to issue licenses. The national Supreme Court intervened in January, deeming Moore's decision unconstitutional. Moore was not among the judges behind the latest decision. Of the 67 state counties, only a third of them began to issue same-sex marriage licences.The status of the licenses that have already been issued in Alabama hasn't been made clear. The Alabama Supreme Court said that the pre-issued licenses were "purported". On this issue, Kennedy said "These people are married. There's nothing the Alabama Supreme Court can do to overturn that."The UK government announced yesterday the British mathematician and computer pioneer Alan Turing would be posthumously pardoned for his 61-year-old "gross indecency" — homosexual activity — conviction.At Bletchley Park, Turing had worked on breaking the Enigma code used by the Nazis during World War II. The ability for the British to decode German communication may possibly have shortened the war by two years. In 1952, Turing was convicted of gross indecency after he had a relationship with another man. He was subjected to chemical castration as an alternative to going to prison.In 1954, Turing died aged 41 from cyanide poisoning. An inquest found he'd committed suicide, but some dispute this and believe it was an accident.The pardon was granted under the Royal Prerogative of Mercy.Chris Grayling, the justice secretary, said: "Dr Alan Turing was an exceptional man with a brilliant mind. His brilliance was put into practice at Bletchley Park during the Second World War where he was pivotal to breaking the Enigma code, helping to end the war and save thousands of lives."His later life was overshadowed by his conviction for homosexual activity, a sentence we would now consider unjust and discriminatory and which has now been repealed. Dr Turing deserves to be remembered and recognised for his fantastic contribution to the war effort and his legacy to science. A pardon from the Queen is a fitting tribute to an exceptional man."Prime Minister David Cameron said: "Alan Turing was a remarkable man who played a key role in saving this country in World War Two by cracking the German Enigma code. His action saved countless lives. He also left a remarkable national legacy through his substantial scientific achievements, often being referred to as the father of modern computing."The pardon follows a formal apology made in 2009 by Prime Minister Gordon Brown, as well as an e-petition campaign that attracted 37,404 signatures.The Republican Party of Alaska is requesting United States Senator Mark Begich, Democrat, to resign to pave way for a new election. This request is based on the U.S. Justice Department withdrawing charges against former Senator Ted Stevens.Stevens was originally convicted in October just before the November election. He lost the election to Begich by a narrow margin. Given that the U.S. Justice Department has dropped charges that had affected the outcome of the election, they may have re-elected Steven if it was done before the election. According to Party Chairman Randy Ruedrich, Begich won over Stevens only because "a few thousand Alaskans thought that Senator Stevens was guilty of seven felonies." Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, through her SarahPAC spokeswoman, agreed.Begich indicated that he would not step down as he felt that Alaskans wanted a change and a senator that is "independent as Alaska.""Today, with our country in a severe recession, it’s more important than ever that we have a senator focused on fixing our economy so Alaskans have the jobs they need to support their families," Begich also stated.The other U.S. Senator from Alaska, Republican Lisa Murkowski, stated "In light of the good news yesterday, I am sure many of us wish we could turn the clock back to last November. Unfortunately, that is not an option."The US Department of Justice has asked for corruption charges against former Senator Ted Stevens to be dropped because evidence was withheld from the defense team by the original prosecutors.  The Justice Department has stated that it will not retry Stevens.In a statement, US Attorney General Eric Holder said, "After careful review, I have concluded that certain information should have been provided to the defense for use at trial. In light of this conclusion, and in consideration of the totality of the circumstances of this particular case, I have determined that it is in the interest of justice to dismiss the indictment and not proceed with a new trial."Stevens was convicted in October on seven felony counts of lying on senate disclosure forms about gifts, largely in the form of free renovations to his home, received from an oil service company; his conviction is thought to have been a large factor in his November electoral defeat to former Anchorage mayor Mark Begich, the current junior Senator from Alaska. Stevens immediately appealed his conviction and has maintained his innocence.Stevens, 85, spent the six weeks leading up to the election on trial in Washington and lost just days after being convicted. Begich’s victory was a coup for Democrats in Alaska. It also was a victory for Democrats in the Senate, who, with Begich’s win, landed 58 of the 60 votes they need to have a filibuster-proof majority. Begich received 151,767 votes (47.77%) to Stevens' 147,814 (46.52%).  The winning margin was 3,953 votes (1.24%).  Three other candidates were in the race:  Bob Bird of the Alaskan Independence Party (13,197; 4.15%), Ted Gianoutsos (independent) (1,385; 0.44%) and Fredrick D. Haas of the Libertarian Party (2483 0.78%)United States Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska has been indicted by federal grand jury on seven criminal counts for making false statements in his Senate financial disclosure forms. The longest-serving Republican in the Senate, Stevens is the highest-profile politician ensnared in the corruption scandal surrounding VECO Corporation and its executives' attempts to influence politics.VECO, a subsidiary of CH2M Hill as of September 2007, is an oil pipeline and services company. It is alleged to have funded renovations to the Stevens home in Girdwood, Alaska in 2000. The renovations include a new garage and first floor, a two story wrap-around deck, as well as new wiring and plumbing. In 2007, VECO chief executive Bill Allen pleaded guilty to charges of extortion, bribery, and conspiracy.The 28-page indictment alleges that Stevens "knowingly and willfully engaged in a scheme to conceal" gifts from VECO, which totaled "hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of things of value."A press release was issued by Stevens' office in response to the allegations: "I am innocent of these charges and intend to prove that." And Stevens himself commented, "I have never knowingly submitted a false disclosure form required by law as a U.S. senator." Senator Daniel Inouye, a close friend of Stevens, commented: "As far as he's concerned, he's not guilty. And I believe him."Stevens was reportedly caught unawares on Tuesday when the indictment charge was filed. "Apparently, the media knew about it before he did," Inouye stated, adding that he had just talked to Stevens. Ted Stevens was in a meeting with other Republicans when he found out about the charge.Stevens is the longest-serving Republican senator in history and is up for reelection this November. Calls to his office in Washington for comment were redirected to a voicemail indicating that his "office is closed."The United States Department of Justice says it has already obtained seven convictions in the case: Peter Kott, a former Speaker of the Alaska House of Representatives; Thomas T. Anderson, a former state representative; Victor H. Kohring, another representative; James A. Clark, chief of staff to the former governor of Alaska; William Bobrick, a lobbyist; Bill Allen, VECO chief executive; and Richard L. Smith, VECO vice president of government relations.An Albanian girl who publicly exposed alleged corruption in the Vlorë police department has died violently. Eighteen-year-old Joana Besnik Dudushi, using the pseudonym "Stela," revealed on the live show "Fiks Fare" in April that officers forced her to work as a prostitute. Dudushi would later accuse her patrons of rape and police would collect hefty bribes to let them off. She had previously been arrested for prostitution on February 25, 2005. Dudushi was found stabbed to death in the Albanian port city Vlorë.Dudushi had not been placed in witness protection as she was pressured to withdraw her accusations. An internal investigation of the Vlorë police found no evidence of wrong-doing on the part of officers in the case of the alleged forced prostitution.The murder probably took place on Sunday, July 31 according to the local police, which also states that at least ten suspects have been questioned.  The body of Joana Dudushi was found near her apartment where she lived with her several-month-old baby.A group, calling itself the Political-Military Council of the Kosovo Liberation Army (UCK) says it was behind yesterday's armed clash with Macedonian police forces which left at least six dead. In a statement, the organization claims that its members, formerly of the “Albanian Territorial Liberation Army“, had been "forced to assemble a regular military unit in order to protect the endangered Albanian people, and every inch of Albanian territory.“ This Thursday, the situation in the Tetovo region village, the scene of yesterday's battle, is calm.Andrei Lugovoi, the man who British authorities say poisoned and killed a ex-Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko with polonium-210, a radioactive isotope, says that the British government tried to recruit him to be a spy and that Litvinenko was working as a spy for British intelligence. He also claims that the British government is connected with the murder of Litvinenko and that he "has evidence" to prove his claims, but did not state what the evidence might be.According to Lugovoi, who spoke to reporters during a press conference in Moscow, the British government wanted him to collect personal information that related to the Russian President, Vladimir Putin."[I was] openly recruited as the British security service agent. They asked me to collect any...compromising information about [Russian] President [Vladimir] Putin and the members of his family," said Lugovoi.Lugovoi also stated that Litvinenko and a Russian tycoon named Boris Berezovsky were also working for the British government saying "Litvinenko became an agent who left the control of (British) special services and was killed. In the words of Sasha himself, first he was recruited and afterwards, on his advice, Boris Abramovich gave to the British some security council documents [from Russia] and also became an MI6 agent."Lugovoi also told the press that he had no motive to commit the murder and that Litvinenko was not an enemy of his."Sacha [Litvinenko] was not my enemy. I didn't feel cold or hot from whatever he was doing, from the books that he was writing. I've been in business for a long time and I was not really interested. [Litvinenko was killed] If not by the British intelligence services themselves, then under their control or with their connivance," added Lugovoi.So far, British officials denied to comment on the claims saying that the incident is a matter for the criminal system."This is a criminal matter and not an issue about intelligence. A request for extradition for Mr. Lugovoi to face trial in a UK court has been handed over. We await the formal Russian response," said the Foreign Office of the U.K..Litvinenko died on November 23, 2006, due to complications from his Polonium-210 poisoning.In order to prevent cheating in high school diploma exams, the Algerian government ordered a series of two-hour nation-wide internet blockades, starting on Wednesday, reports from tech giant Oracle and Agence France-Presse confirmed.Per the blockage, neither the cellular nor the wired data connections are to provide internet access during the exam hours. Social networking website Facebook has been blocked for the entire period. More than 500 thousand students had to appear for re-examination in June 2016 after question papers were leaked on Facebook. During the re-examinations, there were partial bans on Facebook and Twitter, and during that month, multiple employees working at the education ministry and the exam printers were arrested on suspicion of leaking the exams.CCTV cameras have been installed at the locations where the exam question papers are printed, and metal detectors have been installed in over 2000 exam centres. According to various reports, around 700 thousand students are due to take the exams, whose results are expected to be declared a month later from July 22. Electronic gadgets are banned from the exam centres.National education minister Nouria Benghabrit said the decision for the nation-wide blockade was "not comfortable" for the ministry, but it "should not passively stand in front of such a possible leak." According to internet service provider Algérie Télécom, the move was "aimed at ensuring the high school diploma tests run smoothly."Other countries including India and Iraq also have a record of using internet blackouts as preventative measures against cheating during exams.An Algerian driver has been released by his hostage takers in Niger. The man was abducted on April 20 along with a French tourist he was driving.The Frenchman, who is in his 70’s, is still being held hostage; the pair were taken at gunpoint near the Mali and Algerian boarders. The gunmen are reported to have links to al-Qaeda.It is reported that the driver was released in the last few days and has already returned to Algeria. Apparently, he was released in the Mali desert and made his own way back to Algeria. "Some people riding camels found him wandering. After some explanations, they took him to Algeria," said a Nigerien military source to the Reuters news service.The pair were abducted only days after four countries near the Sahara opened a military base to combat al-Qaeda. The vicinity in which the kidnapping took place is known as the "red zone"; foreign offices recommend that tourists avoid the area near the Sahara. Hostage takings have become more frequent with governments having more trouble controlling the problem. Recently the Mali government sparked a row with Mauritania over the release of four militants.Algerian media has reported that the Algerian army has killed ten al-Qaeda rebels in an eastern area of the country. However, the Associated Press have only reported the number as eight. The rebels were killed in what is considered a stronghold of al-Qaeda's North African wing.According to reports, seven insurgents were killed in the Kabylie region, around 100 km from the capital city of Algiers, over the weekend. A further three rebels were reportedly killed on Thursday although circumstances are less known.The Algerian security authorities said that troops launched an operation at dawn on Saturday after villagers reported insurgents in the area searching for food. They added that the killings started with a helicopter bombardment on the suspected area.Al-Qaeda is well known in Algeria for kidnappings and bomb attacks. Over the past couple of years, violence has become a rarer occurrence.Rape and murder are suspected after a 15-year-old girl fell to her death from a hotel in Mecca, Saudi Arabia.  Police yesterday announced that they have arrested four men over her death, suspecting that she fell from her balcony after she was either pushed or jumped trying to escape being raped.The young woman had arrived in Mecca from her home in Marseille, France to undertake the pilgrimage of Umrah. She was staying in Al-Ghazzah District's Al-Muhajireen Hotel, which is close to the Masjid al-Haram (or "Grand Mosque"), along with her Algerian mother, French father and seven-year-old brother. She landed on the roof of a neighbouring hotel, where she struck and slightly injured two Bangladeshi men working there. She had been missing since 9 p.m. local time on Tuesday, and was due to leave on Wednesday morning, when she died. Following the death, around 300 fellow Algerian Muslim pilgrims closed down the road past the hotel in protest, seeking an audience with their ambassador and prosecutions for the suspected offences.Mecca Police director Brigadier General Ibrahim Al-Hamzi sent security teams to negotiate with the crowds. After three hours, the road was reopened. Police spokesman Major Abdul Mohsin Al-Maiman says criminal investigators and a forensics expert have examined the body and four workers at the Al-Muhajireen Hotel have been arrested; two Yemeni men and two Bangladeshi men.The Saudi Gazette reports on anonymous sources claiming that the Yemenis should not have been in the country and were working illegaly. The Gazette also reported on allegations that one suspect has admitted entering a relationship with the girl, but not the source of this information. The suspects were transported to Al-Qararah Police Station for interrogation and the General Prosecution and Investigation Board is expected to take over the case.The body is awaiting detailed examination at the morgue of King Faisal Hospital in Al-Shisha. A coronor's preliminary findings indicated she had suffered multiple fractures. Initial medical reports support rape prior to her death shortly after midnight. Al-Maiman says she died on impact.A cousin of Saddam Hussein, Ali Hassan al-Majid, also known as "Chemical Ali", was sentenced to death by hanging yesterday in Iraq by the Supreme Iraqi Criminal Tribunal, along with two other officials from the former Baath Party. They were sentenced for their roles in the Al-Anfal Campaign, an anti-Kurdish campaign that resulted in the deaths of 180,000 Kurds.It was during an attack against the Kurds that he received the nickname "Chemical Ali", for the infamous Halabja poison gas attack, in which he ordered chemical weapons to be used against a town full of Kurdish civilians. The trial did not deal with this specific incident.Judge Mohammed Oreibi al-Khalifa told al-Majid that, according to a New York Times report, he had "been convicted of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes for ordering army and security services to use chemical weapons in a large-scale offensive that killed or maimed thousands." Al-Majid was head of the Baath Party's Northern Bureau Command at the time of the offences.Al-Majid is reported to have said "Thanks be to God" as he left the court building, although he was trembling and silent when the verdict was read out. Reuters described him as "old-looking" during the sentencing.Former defense minister Sultan Hashim Ahmad al-Tal was also sentenced to death, for a large-scale attack on civilians, and for the usage of chemical weapons and illegal deportation against the Kurds. He insisted he was innocent as he left the courtroom, saying "I will not say anything new, but I will leave you to God. I'm innocent,".Former deputy director of operations for the Iraqi Armed Forces Hussein Rashid Mohammed was the third to be sentenced to death, for a number of allegations against the Kurds, including making anti-Kurdish military plans. He interrupted the judge during the reading of the verdict, saying that all the defendants were merely defending Iraq from Kurdish rebels. He is reported to have said "God bless our martyrs. Long live the brave Iraqi army. Long live Iraq. Long live the Baath party and long live Arab nations,".There were also two sentences of life imprisonment, one for former head of military intelligence's eastern regional office Farhan Mutlaq Saleh and one for director of military intelligence under Saddam Hussein Sabir al-Douri. Charges were dropped against former governor of Mosul and head of the Northern Affairs Committee Taher Tawfiq al-Ani due to insufficient evidence. This move was expected as the prosecutor had earlier requested his release.The sentences, unless overturned on appeal, will mark the end of the so-called Anfal trial, the second trial against regime officials since the 2003 invasion of Iraq. The other trial was that of Hussein himself, which ended in his execution. Prior to his death, Hussein had also been a defendant in the Anfal trial.Solo American hard shock rock artist Alice Cooper has commented that The Osbournes, a reality TV show starring heavy metal vocalist Ozzy Osbourne, ruined the career of the Black Sabbath frontman.Cooper said he felt that by allowing daily life in his house to be broadcast to the world, he destroyed the mystery that had previously surrounded him."Most fans thought he lived in a big, dark castle with skeletons in the cellar." said Cooper."When that show aired they knew he was just some guy who potters around his Beverly Hills mansion. "It was meant to be some kind of comedy but the audience was laughing at Ozzy, not with him. And as a close friend, that made me very sad." Meanwhile, both artists have related news this week. Finnish solo symphonic power metal soprano Tarja Turunen, most famous as the former Nightwish frontwoman, has released a 30-second preview of her cover version of Alice Cooper's top ten hit Poison, which will feature on her upcoming album My Winter Storm.Cooper himself has stated that during an upcoming tour he will replicate a mock hanging for the first time after a near-fatal accident performing the same stunt in 1988, only this time he will also be wearing a straightjacket.Meanwhile, Ozzy has blamed illegal music downloads for poor sales of his latest album Black Rain, saying that the low sales have forced him into a 90-gig world tour that he has admitted he can barely cope with.Alice Cooper, a founder of the shock rock genre, and infamous for his gory stage shows, is setting up a Christian center for at-risk youths in Phoenix.Cooper, who has been a born again Christian for over 20 years, has already raised US$2 million for the center via his charity, the Solid Rock Foundation, founded by Cooper in 1995. "The Rock", as the center will be called, is expected to cost $7.3 million, and Cooper hopes that construction work will begin on the site, currently a grassy area near the Grand Canyon University, by November.The land was donated by the university, which is Christian-based. The structure will cover about 29,000 square feet. The center will aim to get teens in Phoenix off the streets. Alice explained the problem in an interview with Reuters: "Some of these kids just don't have a chance. All their environment does for them is teach them how to dodge bullets and be really good criminals."The center will also attempt to make the youths interested in a music career as an alternative to crime, and will feature a recording studio and sound room, a concert hall, and a coffee house with a stage for performers. Cooper spoke of his confidence in the scheme's potential, saying "If you get a kid that's just as addicted to that guitar as he would be addicted to selling crack, it will change his life right then and there. I'm sure of that,".Florida Governor Jeb Bush has halted signing all execution warrants in the state after a medical examiner revealed an error had occurred in a lethal injection recently.Doctor William Hamilton, the medical examiner who performed the autopsy, has released a statement saying the execution of prisoner Angel Nieves Díaz, from Puerto Rico, took 34 minutes and required a second dose of lethal chemicals. This was caused by the error in that the needles were inserted straight through his veins and into the flesh in his arms, causing the chemicals to leak out.The 34 minute time frame is twice as long as usual, however Dr. Hamilton refuses to comment whether Diaz died painfully. He stated "I am going to defer answers about pain and suffering until the autopsy is complete," noting that the results were preliminary.However, Doctor J. Kent Garman, an emeritus professor of anesthesia at the Stanford School of Medicine, did comment on the possible pain endured, saying "[missing a vein when administering would cause] both psychological and physical discomfort, probably pretty severe."Dr. Jonathan Groner, an Ohio surgeon who has studied and written extensively about lethal injection, also commented, saying Díaz's execution "amounts to death by torture."Jeb Bush has established a commission to report on the state's lethal injection process after the circumstances of Diaz's case, and he suspended the signing of any more death warrants until the commission panel completes its final report, scheduled in March 2007.Only a matter of hours later, a federal judge ruled that the lethal injection system in California may violate the Eighth Amendment of the United States Constitution which prohibits "cruel and unusual punishment."The chemicals used in Florida, California and 35 other US states are all slightly different, but follow a general formation, as follows:-The first is a barbiturate to force the person into a state of unconsciousnessThe second is a paralyzing agent that makes the person unable to speak, move or breatheThe third is potassium chloride, which stops the heart of the person.A Texas court has announced that all children taken from the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (FLDS) compound in Texas are being returned to their parents. Beginning today, parents have been allowed to collect their children, all of whom were in state custody before the announcement.The more than 460 allegedly abused children were taken into state custody last month after officials say they received a call from a distressed 16-year old girl. The children were found in a 1700-acre compound belonging to the FLDS. It is now believed that the original phone call was actually a hoax.The decision follows an appeals court ruling that Texas Child Protective Services (CPS) should not have taken the children from the FLDS.Recently the CPS in Texas filed papers on this issue, saying that the families may choose to flee Texas if they are reunited per the appeals courts ruling. If the families were to do that, they would then be outside the court's jurisdiction, putting the children at risk of abuse.The CPS in Texas released a statement regarding the court ruling: "We are disappointed, but we understand and respect the court's decision and will take immediate steps to comply. Child Protective Services has one purpose in this case - to protect the children. Our goal is to reunite families whenever we can do so and make sure the children will be safe. We will continue to prepare for the prompt and orderly reunification of these children with their families. We also will work with the district court to ensure the safety of the children and that all of our actions conform with the decision of the Texas Supreme Court."The New Zealand Department of Corrections is currently investigating allegations at the Rimutaka prison in Wellington, New Zealand. The prison guards have allegedly accepted monetary bribes from prisoners in exchange for drugs and cellphones.Two former officers, Ingrid and Mark Rijniers, have handed over a collection of documents on their encounters while working at Rimutaka prison. The pair, who were transferred from Holland, claim that Rimutaka prison is run by gang members who dominate the prison guards. They also claim that if the gang members don't get what they want they will intimidate and threaten the guards with their lives. However, Ingrid Rijniers is refusing to co-operate with the department because they refused to give her the money to return to Holland.The New Zealand Corrections Department says it is taking these claims seriously but has not yet found sufficient evidence to back up the claims.Simon Power, justice and corrections spokesman for the National party, said that the allegations are appalling and reflect heavily on the Corrections Department. Mr Powers said that Barry Matthews, chief executive of the Department of Corrections, does not know what is happening in his prisons. "That means the Minister, Damien O'Connor, will be equally clueless."Twelve percent of 1,043 prisoners who were tested for drugs from the start of this year until June, tested positive for drugs. Most of the drugs taken was marijuana while fourteen tested positive for "P". In addition, a teenage prisoner, Liam Ashley, was recently strangled to death in a prison van by a much older adult prisoner. Mr Power said that with all these new claims emerging, Mr O'Conner should resign as the minister of corrections.On September 4 and 5, at least 4,000 anti-Scientology videos were removed from the video sharing website, YouTube. The videos removed were done so by a single Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) notice by an alleged 'rights group' called the American Rights Counsel LLC, which Wikinews has confirmed does not exist beyond the scope of those requests.In an exclusive interview with Wikinews the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) acknowledged that they "don't know anything about" the Counsel and that any attempt to intentionally commit fraud by filing false DMCA requests, could lead to criminal charges."We don't know anything about this group. However, if these DMCA notices were sent improperly, there could be legal remedies. The particulars would depend on the particulars of the situation," Rebecca Jeschke, a spokeswoman for the EFF, told Wikinews.The EFF first broke the story regarding the requests. YouTube received the notice all at once, in a single request. When Wikinews asked the EFF if they knew the names or links to the material in question, they stated that they do not know the names and that they have not seen the notice filed with YouTube.According to Jeschk, the "EFF fights abuse of the DMCA. ..." but did not state where the EFF heard about the request."We have not seen the notices, merely heard about them [and] we don't know enough to know if the DMCA has been abused here. However, only copyright holders can issue DMCA takedowns," Jeschke said.The EFF is investigating the incident, and it is not yet known who or what was behind the DMCA request. Some have speculated that the Counsel is a front for Scientology operated by a Dr. Oliver Schaper. In an exclusive interview with Wikinews, Schaper denied any involvement with the DMCA requests and also denied having any knowledge whatsoever of the Counsel. "As many other people, and even members of the Church of Scientology received information about a company that removed anti-Scientology content from YouTube, shit hit the fan and members of Anonymous went on a full attack on me. I still have to this date no information about the American Rights Counsel and I have no connection, knowledge or involvement in this company which I have been informed of does not even exists," Schaper said.Producer of XenuTV Mark Bunker defends Schaper and does not believe he is responsible. Bunker also believes that the Counsel is a fraud and called the DMCA requests a crime."I next did a Google search for American Rights Counsel LLC which brought up absolutely no results so clearly this was fraud from the beginning. I had never heard of Schaper before he was accused of this. I don't know anything about him other than he contacted me and said he was not involved. I don't know who was responsible. 4000 deletions in a matter of hours is a pretty major feat. It would be worth a subpoena to find out who committed this crime," Bunker said.Currently the EFF does not represent any of the users or groups who were affected by the mass take-down.According to the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a rights group called the American Rights Counsel LLC has attempted to have at least 4,000 anti-Scientology videos removed from the video sharing website YouTube. Upon further investigation, Wikinews found that most videos and clips were added to YouTube by the copyright holders of the material; as DMCA requests are for the purposes of requesting removal where service providers host material that infringe on the copyright of the complainant, the merit of these requests remain questionable. It was also discovered that the alleged rights group does not exist as a physical entity. In an in-depth report, Wikinews investigated the incident and obtained exclusive information and comments from individuals, including XenuTV producer Mark Bunker.Within the past 24 hours, according to the EFF, the Counsel "sent out over 4000 DMCA takedown notices to YouTube, all making copyright infringement claims against videos with content critical of the Church of Scientology." A DMCA notice, or Digital Millennium Copyright Act notice means an attempt to limit the use of copyrighted material that is often infringing on the rights of an alleged copyright.Wikinews made attempts to contact American Rights Counsel LLC for comment on the take-down notices, but was unable to obtain contact details for the alleged organisation. One post on a YouTube discussion page related to the organization states that they "do not appear to exist outside of these claims on YouTube." Wikinews contacted YouTube several times asking them if they have a process of verifying DMCA requests from individuals or entities claiming copyright infringement, but when they responded, they directed Wikinews to their terms of service saying, "item 8 addresses the DMCA and 8 B addresses counter-notice procedures."YouTube's terms of use in regards to filing DMCA requests states that only "A physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed" can make such claims. It also goes on to say, "Identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site."The EFF says the videos attempting to be removed had shown clips from Anonymous protests of the Church and news footage from Australia and Germany which were critical of Scientology. Some videos were also messages from Anonymous to Scientology, and vice versa. Others were also video clips from a City Commission meeting in Clearwater, Florida. Accounts hosting the material were "suspended by YouTube in response to multiple allegations of copyright infringement."YouTube does, however, have a process for users that wish to file a counter-notice against a take-down under the DMCA. After the DMCA notices were sent, YouTube users began to revolt, by sending "DMCA counter-notices" to YouTube. The EFF states that the counter attack resulted in many of the accounts being reinstated and their videos restored.One user claimed that he had shot and uploaded one of the videos that was taken down. "How can someone else file a claim against a video I MADE?," said ShadowVsScientology, one of the YouTube users who had a video deleted. Since he owned the rights to the video, he alleges that the American Rights Counsel had no legal grounds to request its removal.A video posted on YouTube by a user called 'Church0fScientology', who was responsible for the original 'Message to Scientology' in January of 2008 created after the Church had a video of a Tom Cruise interview removed from the site, states that the organization responsible for the DMCAs does not exist and is run by a man named Dr. Oliver Schaper. They state that he "fronts" the organization for Scientology. It also calls Schaper's actions "deceptive". Schaper also had an account on YouTube which has since been suspended. Wikinews obtained a cached version of his account page in which he states to the group Anonymous, "I respect your efforts as long your efforts remain within the limits of the law and remain fair. Although I don't censor any postings, I would appreciate if any conversation could remain civil and insult free." Schaper also states that he "will not censor because I strongly believe in the freedom of speech." They accuse him of running and owning media companies that distribute gay pornography, something Schaper later admits, but only that it's an "adult television network." Homosexuality is not accepted within the Church of Scientology and is not tolerated. Scientology believes that homosexuality is a disease and can be cured.A user named "Oschaper" has written articles on the online encyclopedia Wikipedia about Peephole TV and Volksmusik TV. Oliver Schaper is the founder of Peephole TV, and is also involved with Volksmusik TV. In an e-mail to Wikinews, Wikipedia user Oschaper claims that his first name is Olaf, and that he is "not related" to Oliver Schaper. "Olaf" writes: "My name is Olaf Schaper and I use the handle oschaper on Wikipedia. I'm not related to Oliver Schaper and we share only the last name ... If you like to contact Oliver Schaper please see his companies website at www.acos.tv". When asked how he managed to get an e-mail address with that last name, Olaf replied, "I got the email because my best friend works for his networks hence the creation of my postings on Wikipedia."Wikinews contacted Schaper for exclusive comments. Schaper replied saying that he is a "very strong advocate for the Church of Scientology, the religion of Scientology and a free speech advocate" and "I don’t need to go into details but I felt that my family and myself have been direct targets and in an attempt to control the situation, I started to track down and remove online links between me and my religion. This included postings made by HouseSpiderAnon on his videos, who publicly connected the dots and made them available to a larger audience.""I requested several times to have my information removed from his videos as I wanted no association with his work but he refused, even after I stated several times that he has the right to protest but that I would like to enforce my right of privacy. He refused and demanded documentation of the attacks, something I refused because it was not my attention to allow more documents to be available online in public hand," added Schaper who also said he has been a victim of identity theft and now has the FBI involved in investigating his claim."Tustin PD [police department] has been on the case and now the FBI is involved as well. Social Security has been notified and we have seen about 200 attempts to use the SSN [social security number] for fake credit cards applications," Schaper told Wikinews.Schaper admits that he contacted YouTube to have videos which contained images of him that were being used without permission and videos "which violated [his] privacy removed." Those requests made by Schaper were eventually accepted by YouTube but "videos that contained just a text messages directed against me or my church remained," he added. He also admits to owning "several broadcasting companies, ACOS Broadcasting Corp. (eight mainstream television and two radio networks) & Media House Enterprises, Inc. (adult television network PEEPHOLE TV).""I had the power to go fully against copyrighted material because we own or licensed large amounts of content. But it was not my responsibility to enforce all copyright violations on YouTube. In addition with the attacks on our servers, websites and infrastructure, no time would have been available to take on a fight," added Schaper.Schaper also denies any involvement with the alleged rights group and also states he was just notified that it doesn't even exist."As many other people, and even members of the Church of Scientology received information about a company that removed anti-Scientology content from YouTube, shit hit the fan and members of Anonymous went on a full attack on me. I still have to this date no information about the American Rights Counsel and I have no connection, knowledge or involvement in this company which I have been informed of does not even exists," Schaper told Wikinews.One critic of Scientology, television producer Mark Bunker also had his accounts deleted by YouTube, but had them quickly restored. Bunker also believes that the American Rights Counsel does not exist."American Rights Counsel LLC does not exist. When I got my take-down notices from YouTube I tried to file a DMCA counter-notice but in order to do that you need to get the name of the contact person to be served with the notice and the contact information of the company which the government lists on the web," said Bunker to Wikinews who also added that their name is not registered with the United States copyright office."I next did a google search for American Rights Counsel LLC which brought up absolutely no results so clearly this was fraud from the beginning. I contact[ed] YouTube and they quickly restored everything to my account and others," added Bunker.Wikinews has also learned that a contributor on Wikipedia, claiming to be a member of Anonymous, has posted what is allegedly personal information of Schaper. The edit, made to the article Peephole TV states that he is a lawyer, employed with a firm on Ricklinger, Stadtweg in Hanover, Germany. It also stated that he is affiliated with the "Tustin Org" in California. In what seems to be a gathering of information on Schaper from other online sources, according to Enturbulation.org, the result of releasing the information has resulted in legal and physical threats from Schaper to someone, known as 'HouseSpiderV2' on Enturbulation, who has claimed to have released e-mail correspondence between him and Schaper."Don't think I will not be able to track you down and serve you with papers. I would make the case so expensive for you that you would not be able to even fight this on your own funding as I have the money at my disposal," allegedly states Schaper to 'HouseSpiderV2' in an e-mail. "You have 24 hours to remove the postings or I will start to make this a legal issue. That makes it simple," he added.Despite the claims that the Wikipedia contributor is Oliver Schaper, he claims to have never registered an account with Wikipedia. He also says he has never made any threats of physical harm to members of Anonymous."I had not the need to register an account with Wikipedia and after all this trouble will not get involved at all. There has never been any threat of violence against Housespideranon or any other member of Anonymous made by me," Schaper told Wikinews.Bunker, who recently spoke with Schaper, says he believes Schaper is not involved, but that he also doesn't know who or what was responsible for filing the DMCA requests."I had never heard of Schaper before he was accused of this. I don't know anything about him other than he contacted me and said he was not involved. I don't know who was responsible.  4000 deletions in a matter of hours is a pretty major feat.  It would be worth a subpoena to find out who committed this crime. I wouldn't blame Schaper without knowing he did it," Bunker added.In proceedings by the Guantanamo military commission at the United States Guantanamo Bay Naval Base on Monday, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four alleged co-conspirators stated that they will confess and plead guilty to the charges they face in the planning and execution of the September 11 attacks in 2001.The four that stand accused with Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind, are Mustafa al-Hawsawi, Ramzi Binalshibh, Ammar al-Baluchi (aka Ali Abd al-Aziz Ali), and Walid bin 'Attash. They have all been at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp for at least two years.The defendants announced their intentions in court, with Stephen R. Henley reading their filing.The judge asked if they would plead guilty. "Yes," said Mohammed, "we don't want to waste time." He also said it was "our earnest desire" to admit guilt and said he wanted the proceeding to end because "I do not trust Americans."Mohammed also expressed displeasure that it took over a month for the court to address his filing requesting "an immediate hearing session to announce our confessions." In court he said, "I don't know — are the military commissions using carrier pigeons or what?" speaking in English.The judge would not accept pleas from Binalshibh and al-Hawsawi, ordering mental competency hearings for the two.Al Hawsawi objected and told the judge he decided to plead guilty "with all my complete mental capacity and voluntarily."However, Mohammed told the judge they would not enter their pleas without Binalshibh and al-Hawsawi, "We want everyone to plead together.""Our plea was based on joint strategy," al-Baluchi told the judge. "All of these decisions are undertaken by us without any pressure or influence by Khalid Sheikh [Mohammed]," he further said. "What was said or will be said by Khalid Sheikh will be repeated by us, also."After the competency evaluations, another hearing will be held, where the five may enter their pleas. Presiding Officer Stephen Henley asked for briefs from prosecutors on whether the military commission can "accept a plea of guilty to a capital offense."Monday's hearing was unusual in that, in addition to the press, the families of five 9/11 victims were also in attendance.All five of the alleged 9-11 conspirators, including the self-professed ringleader and mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, have withdrawn their offer of guilty pleas after questions were raised on whether by pleading guilty they can receive the death penalty.During a pretrial hearing at Guantanamo Bay, Mohammed was heard asking: "Are you saying if we plead guilty we will not be able to be sentenced to death?" Mohammed has stated his desire to die as a martyr, but Army Colonel Stephen R. Henley, the military judge at the head of the trial, stated that a death sentence may not be possible without a verdict. Attorneys for the conspirators say that the possibility of no execution led to the withdrawal of the offer.Alice Hoagland attended the proceedings, and expressed her opposition to any of the conspirators being executed, saying of Mohammed that "I can't think of anybody who less deserves martyrdom". Hoagland's son, Mark, was one of the passengers of United Airlines Flight 93, who are believed to have fought the hijackers of that flight.The Washington Post has reported that the lone anthrax killer, Bruce Ivins, reportedly edited Wikipedia under the username Jimmyflathead. The contributions from the Jimmyflathead account reveal a few hundred edits were made from December 2005 to September 2007, and almost all of them concern inclusion of information critical of Kappa Kappa Gamma, a sorority which Ivins became obsessed with after being rebuffed by a woman in the sorority during his days as a student at the University of Cincinnati.The anthrax letters are believed to have been mailed from a letterbox in Princeton, New Jersey, some 60 feet from a Kappa Kappa Gamma office.Wikinews looked at the edits made by the account, and information revealed in the edits is made available below.Wikipedia user ppfleiger described how Jimmyflathead bullied other users.  Ppfleiger said that "most of the negative content on the [talk] page [of Kappa Kappa Gamma] is merely there because you [Jimmyflathead] bullied folks with threats of adding negative content and through personal emails."Below is an extract from a threat made by Jimmyflathead on the talk page of Kappa Kappa Gamma:The user threatened by Jimmyflathead was contributing from a Harvard University IP address that was registered to a location in Oxford Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts.A 69-year-old man who allegedly killed his wife, two grandchildren and seriously injured his daughter, faced Wagga Wagga Local Court via video-link from the Junee Correctional Centre. Prosecutor Chris Murnane requested that future dates be set at Orange Local Court, but Magistrate Anthony Murray denied the request, stating that the case would stay at Wagga Wagga before moving to Cowra Local Court at a future date.The court case has been adjourned until August 25 to give time for the prosecution to finalise its brief of evidence. On that date, the accused is due to reappear in Wagga Wagga Local Court via video-link. He has been charged with three counts of murder and one count of attempted murder.File:Teodoro Garcia Simental.jpgTeodoro García Simental, alleged to be a major kingpin in Mexico, has been arrested by Federal Police in southern Baja California."No shots were fired. It was a very fast operation. The investigation has been going on for a long time," an unnamed police officer told Reuters. Simental was handcuffed and swiftly flown to Mexico City.The United States Drug Enforcement Administration spokesperson Michael Sanders said the DEA assisted in the arrest. "He is one the most notorious drug lords and was on a list of the Top 24 drug traffickers in all of Mexico," said a member of the DEA.Simental was presented to the press where Ramon Pequeno of the Federal Police said: "He was one of the most wanted suspects by both the Mexican and U.S. governments."According to The New York Times Simental used to be a top hitman for the Tijuana Arellano-Felix cartel before assuming control. He is said to be particularly brutal, pinning cautionary notes to his victims or dissolving them in caustic soda.It is estimated that 17,000 people have been killed in the last three years of the Mexican Drug War.Accused kidney racketeer Amit Kumar has been arrested in Nepal at a jungle resort near Chitwan. Police are still seeking suspected co-conspirators, including Kumar's brother Jeevan Rawat. Nepalese police are holding Kumar under currency laws, charging that he was in possession of large amounts of United States dollars and Euros. Nepal has strict laws about foreign currency.Kumar, who had become the subject of an international manhunt for allegedly harvesting hundreds of kidneys of poor people in India for transplantation to wealthy clients. He is said to have done so through a mixture of bribes and coercion.Hotel staff at the resort where he was staying, said that he kept a low profile, but suspicions arose when he was cutting out articles about his own case from print newspapers.India is seeking extradition, but the fact that Nepalese authorities have added their own charges of illegal organ transplants in on top of the foreign currency possession charges, could delay proceedings.Meanwhile, Poonam Kumar, who is Amit Kumar's wife and lives in Brampton, Canada with their two sons, claims that "My husband is innocent... You tell me what human would want to do these things to anyone. My husband didn't do anything wrong.""My husband is not a monster as being portrayed around the world, but a doctor who just wants to help people in need" said the 28-year-old woman. "I have great respect for media but it has pre-judged the issue." She added that she has not left her home for seven days and is running out of groceries. The boys have not attended school since last week when world media began knocking on her door. "I don't know what my options are. I don't know where I'm going to go," Poonam Kumar said. Sri Prakash Jaiswal, the Minister for Home Affairs, is not worried about problems with the extradition. "We have very good relations with our neighbour Nepal. These relations go back to centuries. It will not be a problem in extraditing Dr Amit Kumar," he said.When asked how Amit Kumar could have crossed the border, Sri Prakash Jaiswal said: "The Indo-Nepal border is porous as we all know. He made use of this. But this does not mean the present condition should continue. We will have to take some measures to control crossing of the border."One victim, known as Ranjinder, told Times of India that, "We were shifted from one vehicle to another and were confused about where we were. The Nepali driver promised me the job of a cook at a guesthouse. I was taken to a house where I cooked for the first few days." He was told that blood tests were necessary to protect the health of the guests at the house. Dalip, another laborer, said, "They told us it was necessary since the foreign guests were prone to infections. There were two men inside the house with pistols."Both Ranjinder and Dalip were anasthesised and woke up after their kidneys had been removed."Initially they lured the poor with promises of employment. They were then convinced to part with their kidneys and a deal was negotiated," said a police official.A woman appeared today in the magistrates' court in Croydon, London accused of a racially aggravated public order charge after a video was watched by over 11 million people on YouTube allegedly showing her shouting racial abuse at passengers on a tram.Emma West, 34, a resident of New Addington, cried and bowed her head while the footage was played in court. To protect West's safety, an application of bail was denied. She has been remanded in custody until January 3.West's case will be transferred to the Crown Court to be heard by a judge and jury. Her plea status is unclear; earlier reports of her saying "not guilty" are, according to the BBC, a court error with her not actually having pled.The incident happened in Helsingborg where the woman and the man took a taxi together. The man supposedly lured the woman up to his apartment stating that he was going to give her money for the taxi fare, and it is there that the incident is alleged to have happened.The woman claims that he then forced her to have intercourse and participate in other sexual activities. She has explained that she begged him to use a condom, but to no avail. It was only when she told him that she had children waiting at home, that he let her go.The man, on the other hand, told the police that he had paid her 3,512 Swedish krona (US$483) as he believed her to be a prostitute and that he was both sexually excited and drunk. He told the police that the reason she pressed charges against him was that she wanted to save herself.It is not confirmed whether the man has been infected.Sexual assault in Sweden is punishable by a minimum of two years in prison.An alleged Russian spy was arrested in Montreal, having threatened national security. The man is identified as a Russian spy and has been living under a false name. As he prepared to board a plane out of Canada, Canada Border Services agents took the man into custody at Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport in Montreal on Tuesday. Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day and Immigration Minister Monte Solberg signed the document that authorized the man's arrest. This document is called the national security certificate and is rarely used. The certificate alerts Ottawa about possible threats to the country. The ministers of immigration and public safety are obliged to sign the national security certificate."The government's most important duty is to ensure the security of all Canadians. A security certificate has been issued ... against a foreign national. He is now in custody in Montreal," said Melissa Leclerc, spokeswoman for Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day. "A foreign national alleging to be a Canadian citizen named Paul William Hampel was arrested in Montreal after a national security certificate under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act was issued against him."The man came to Canada several years ago with the name of Paul William Hampel, and is now reported to be false. Officials at the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) are working on identifying the man who entered Canada years ago."He is now in custody in Montreal. This is not a counter-terrorism case. More information will become available as the Federal Court process unfolds. Any speculation about the individual's other nationality is premature at this point," Barbara Campion, a spokesperson for CSIS.Ottawa believed the man had been "engaging in an act of espionage or an act of subversion," and "belonged to an organization that there are reasonable grounds to believe engages.""I don't think we're going to get the most intimate of details, no, not at all," he told CTV Montreal....We'll see a public version of the allegations that will be released by the federal court judge who is going to be responsible for reviewing the basis upon which cabinet will have declared this individual subject to a security certificate. beyond that, though, we may see things settle more quietly between governments," said David Harris, former chief of strategic planning at CSIS."There are also influence operations where countries might try to influence their expatriates and émigré communities in Canada. Beyond that, there is a real appetite building among many countries for technological secrets," he said. "They can be of use to industries of the sponsoring nations and these things can have values in the billions for the economies of those countries undertaking these operations."Reports say the man's methods in Canada matched the techniques used by the Russian intelligence agency's Directorate S, which runs the Russian spy network.Twenty people since 1991 have been charged under the Security Certificate legislation in Canada. The last time it was used was in 2003.The court hearing for the man being held in Montreal will be on Wednesday. It is still unclear if the hearing will be in Ottawa, the nations capital, or in Montreal. More information will be released as the case progresses.Abu Bakar Bashir, 68, the accused spiritual leader of Jemaah Islamiyah a militant islamic organisation with links to Al-Qaeda has been released from an Indonesian prison after serving his 25 month sentence.Bashir was convicted for conspiracy, in connection with the 2002 Bali bombing. Bashir was accused of playing a pivotal role in planning the attack which killed 202 people, 88 of whom were from Australia. The Judges ruled that he was not involved in the attacks, but had approved of it. Bashir has denied having links to JI or any other militant organisation and has denied all charges against him. He has also condemned the Bali bombing as a "brutal act".As Bashir was released from Cipinang prison in Jakarta, he was greeted by hundreds of supporters who yelled, "God is great". Bashir gave a brief address to his supporters, thanking Allah for his freedom, vowing to uphold "Islamic sharia (law)" and said Indonesia needed to the law and was shrouded "in darkness".The Australian government has expressed its disappointment at the release of Mr Bashir. Speaking before the Australian House of Representatives, Prime Minister John Howard said "I want them (the Indonesian government) to understand from me, on behalf of the Government, how extremely disappointed, even distressed, millions of Australians will be at the release of Abu Bakar Bashir," he said."Many Australians will see that particular outcome, although a product of the Indonesian justice system, as an extremely disappointing result."Australia's foreign minister, Alexander Downer assured the families of those killed in the attacks that the government shares their pain. "We ... accept the decisions of the Indonesian courts, but we are deeply disappointed with that release today and we share the pain with those families that suffered so much as a result of the Bali bombing," Mr Downer said.The United States has also expressed dismay at Bashir's release. Speaking in Jakarta, US embassy spokesman Max Kwak said, "we were deeply disappointed that a person convicted of a sinister conspiracy was given such a short prison sentence".Muhammad Hikam, an Indonesian politician claimed Bashir would have got a longer term if Indonesia was given access to Riduan Isamuddin Hambali by the United States who have him imprisoned. Hambali is believed to be mastermind of the Bali bombings and is alleged to have links to Bashir.In a continuing crackdown on tax evasion, the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) has alleged that brokers with a branch of RBC Dominion Securities, Canada's largest brokerage company, helped clients set up accounts in the small European principality of Liechtenstein in order to avoid taxation on their wealth.In affadavits submitted by the CRA, brokers with an RBC Dominion Securities office in Victoria, British Columbia, allegedly helped clients set up 16 offshore entities with a division of the LGT Group in Liechtenstein. While that is not a crime under Canadian law, auditors allege that the entities were used to help Canadians hide worldwide income.  Thirteen individuals are either being audited or have made voluntary disclosures, admitting to tax evasion.  The agency is presently investigating to see if there are any other individuals participating in this scheme. Regarding the inquiry, dubbed "Project Jade", the CRA will only say that it was launched on information from a "confidential informant".RBC issued a written statement, saying "As a firm, we have never encouraged Canadians — not 25 years ago and not today — to set up entities in Liechtenstein, and we have never instructed our investment advisers to recommend that practice," and "we comply with all CRA requirements. This means that we provide all our clients with the forms they need to meet their personal tax obligations, and also file reports with CRA that form the basis for reviews such as this."Three RBC employees are presently being investigated, with one remaining unidentified.Alleged war criminal Radovan Karadžić was caught yesterday in Serbia by Serbian security forces after almost 13 years on the run from authorities.Last night he was questioned by an inquisitor of the War Crimes Court in Belgrade.Karadžić has been accused by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity during the Bosnian War from 1992 to 1995. The Srebrenica massacre, in which about 8,000 Muslims were killed, is among the most serious of his alleged crimes. The massacre was categorised as genocide by both the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.Internationally, the arrest was unanimously welcomed. Along with former military chief Ratko Mladić, Karadžić has been one of the most sought-after war criminals of the Balkan conflict.Described by the BBC's Kate Adie as a "smart, rather vain man", his capture found him with a long white beard working in a clinic and practicing alternative medicine under the name Dragan Dabic.Rock musicians Kid Rock and Mötley Crüe drummer Tommy Lee were involved in a minor altercation at the 2007 MTV Music Video Awards (VMA), held on Sunday night in Las Vegas.Both Lee and Rock were former husbands of Pamela Anderson, who was present at the VMAs and delivered her lines from the top of a table. Eye witnesses claim the fight started when Kid Rock, who was sitting next to rapper Diddy, walked up to Lee and slapped him. Tommy Lee stood up to fight back and Rock punched him in the face. Lee was dragged off by security guards before he was able to fight back.Rap Producer Rich Nice said Lee had been antagonizing Rock before the altercation. The incident inspired many jokes from hip hop and rap artist, such as MTV VJ Sway who was quoted saying "They say it's only rappers. I told you rockers fight too."  Police cited Rock for misdemeanor battery.An amateur sex video allegedly filmed in Singapore using a mobile phone has become an Internet phenomenon. Various blogs are reporting that tens of thousands of Internet users are searching for the video, creating what bloggers call a "blogstorm". According to unconfirmed reports, the female in the video is "Tammy", a 17 year old student at Nanyang Polytechnic (NYP) in Singapore, and the male is her 21 year old boyfriend. The incident has stirred controversy, with many bloggers critical of the interest the video has attracted.Terms such as "tammy nyp" and "tammy video" topped the list of search terms on Technorati, a blog search engine, for days. Bloggers appear to be creating entries containing the terms to increase hits to their blogs. Domain names such as nyptammy.com have been registered, in an attempt to make money through advertising. Further, The Malaysian Star (A major newspaper in a neighbouring country, Malaysia) reported last week that a DVD version of the clips is available for sale on the streets of Penang.It has been reported in the Singapore press that the female student in the video is currently undergoing counselling. The student has also lodged a complaint with the police, who are currently investigating the matter.While it is unlikely that the culprits who uploaded the video will ever be caught, a warning must be sounded to people seeking to exploit this unfortunate incident. Under Singapore Law, bloggers who intentionally spread the "Tammy videos" are liable in tort to "Tammy".American-based online retailer Amazon.com has backtracked from its July decision and actions to remotely delete George Orwell's classic dystopian novels, Nineteen Eighty-Four and Animal Farm, from customers' Kindle e-book readers.Late Thursday, Amazon emailed owners of Kindle readers who had previously lost copies of these novels, offering a new copy of the deleted books, or a gift certificate or check for US$30. In the email, the company's chief executive, Jeff Bezos apologised again, and described the earlier actions as "stupid, thoughtless and painfully out of line with our principles."Initially, the two works of Orwell were made available to Kindle owners by a third-party company which did not have the rights to distribute them. When Amazon was alerted to this by the actual rights holder, the company removed the books from their online store then, far more controversially, remotely deleted the books from their customers' devices before issuing refunds.In the aftermath of significant press coverage of Amazon's actions to remove content, legal action was started against them in Washington alleging violations of the company's published terms of service, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, and Washington's consumer protection legislation. A Michigan student named as a plaintiff in the case explained that the deletion of his copy of 1984 had rendered his annotations and notes worthless.First published in 1949, the novel Nineteen Eighty-Four will not enter the public domain in the United States until 2044.Nevaeh Gough is back with her family, and police in Toronto have cancelled the Amber Alert issued earlier today when she was driven away by her father, Daniel James David, after an alleged domestic altercation between the 10-month old's parents.Police were called to a home on Warden Avenue at 1:35 p.m. EDT (1735 UTC) regarding a domestic dispute. Police allege Mr David arrived at a motel where the mother and child were staying and assaulted the infant's mother, then drove away with the child. When he returned to the hotel, they allege he forced the mother into the car and drove her to the home on Warden Avenue, from which he later fled.Police issued the alert, along with descriptions of Mr David and his vehicle, and the warning that he may have a gun.The alert was canceled off after approximately an hour when the baby's grandfather brought her to the police, about 7 p.m. local time.Mr David was described as 5’10”, black, with black, short hair and brown eyes and has a cheek scar under his right eye. His vehicle is a silver, four-door, 2006 Mazda M6, with Ontario license plate AYFZ 177.Anyone with information to his whereabouts is asked to contact police at 416-808-4300, or Crime Stoppers anonymously at 416-222-TIPS (8477), or online at www.222tips.com .Police in South Salt Lake, Utah are searching for missing seven-year-old Hser Nar Moo, last seen at her home on Monday. In issuing an AMBER Alert, notifying the public of a possible child abduction, police called on anyone with information regarding the child to contact them.Nar Moo was last seen at her home on Monday at around 2:00 p.m. MDT (UTC-6), and was reported missing at around 6:30 p.m. The alert was issued today at 9:41 a.m.Police called upon members of the public who have any information about the child to call 801-840-4000 or 9-1-1.The seven-year-old Asian girl is described as being 3 feet 8 inches tall, weighing about 45 lbs, with brown eyes and long black hair. She was wearing a pink dress to her knees and pink Crocs shoes.Police reported that she speaks very little English, though she does understand some. Her family arrived from Burma in 2007. Police indicated that she may be in need of medical attention.Maryland State Police have issued an AMBER alert for two teenaged boys who were reportedly abducted in a 2004 black BMW 645 with Maryland temporary tags.  According to the Baltimore Sun, the vehicle was later found, but the victims are still missing.Police say that at 3 a.m. EDT (UTC-4), early Tuesday morning, six armed men wearing masks forced their way into the two-story house. They bound and gagged the residents and when they left at around 11 a.m. they took the two brothers with them.A relative of the boys witnessed them being led from the house to the BMW car. He began to approach but, according to police, the assailants fired a shot at him and drove away.Baltimore County police spokesperson, Mike Hill, said that the remaining victims in the house initially refused to give information, though they later gave some information. He said it was not known if any property was stolen from the house.The boys have been identified as Stephon and Sterling Blackwell. Stephon is described as five feet seven inches and 145 pounds and last seen wearing blue jeans and a gray sweatshirt. Sterling is said to be five feet four inches tall and 150 pounds. He was last seen wearing blue jeans and green hoodie sweatshirtThe police are requesting anybody with information that may help in locating the victims to call (410) 307-2020 or 911. The vehicle tags are Maryland 04350D.The USA Freedom Act, introduced in to the US House of Representatives as HR 3361 and to the US Senate as S. 1599, on Thursday passed out of House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and on to the House floor. Foreign Policy reported the bill was "the most aggressive NSA reform bill under consideration in Congress", however, after amendment, the bill has been questioned for extending the Patriot Act and the reduction of reform to Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.The USA Freedom Act had the stated goal of ending the bulk collection of Americans' metadata, ending the secret laws created by the FISA court, and introducing a "Special Advocate" to represent public and privacy matters before the FISA court.In May 2014, the US House Judiciary Committee posted a "Manager's Amendment" on its website. Title VII of the Amendment read "Section 102(b)(1) of the USA Patriot Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 (50 U.S.C. 1805 note) is amended by striking 'June 1, 2015' and inserting 'December 31, 2017'", extending the USA PATRIOT Act through the end of 2017. A number of organizations have taken stances against the Patriot Act, for example, the American Library Association became so concerned it urged its members to defend free speech and protect patrons' privacy against the Act.According to Deputy Attorney General James Cole, even if the Freedom Act becomes law, the NSA could continue its bulk collection of American's phone records. He explained that "it's going to depend on how the [FISA] court interprets any number of the provisions" contained within the legislation. Jennifer Granick, Director of Civil Liberties at Stanford Law School, stated: The Administration and the intelligence community believe they can do whatever they want, regardless of the laws Congress passes, so long they can convince one of the judges appointed to the secretive Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) to agree. This isn't the rule of law. This is a coup d'etat.Cynthia Wong of Human Rights Watch (HRW) expressed concern that "the bill does not address needed reforms to surveillance programs that affect millions of people outside US borders.” This being a key problem that plagues US surveillance activities according to HRW.Mike Rogers, a defender of the NSA's surveillance practices and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, called the proposed amendments a "huge improvement". On the other hand, USA Freedom Act co-author and Senate Committee on the Judiciary Chairman Patrick Leahy commented that he "remain concerned that the legislation approved today does not include some of the important reforms related to national security letters, a strong special advocate at the FISA Court, and greater transparency. I will continue to push for those reforms when the Senate Judiciary Committee considers the USA FREEDOM Act this summer."Ryan Park, a 22 year old door-to-door meat salesman from Waterboro, Maine was arrested yesterday, and charged with assaulting a woman in Stoddard, New Hampshire last month.  He is charged with forcibly kissing her after she turned down an offer from him of chicken for sex.Stoddard Police Lieutenant Roger Turcotte stated that the woman, whom he did not name, told police that Park:persuaded her to let him into her house;brought in several boxes of meat and attempted to sell them to her;said, when told that she did not have the money to spend, "Well that’s all right. I’ll take anything in trade: knives, drug paraphernalia, guns, anything else that you have to offer";tried to sell her a box of chicken;suggested oral sex;put his hands on her hips and tried to kiss her;asked to be shown the rest of the house, including the bedroom; andsaid "Why don’t you get rid of the kids for a few minutes? This won’t take long. Nobody will know."Turcotte said that in order to get rid of Park the woman gave him a post-dated cheque (which police later helped the woman to stop payment on) and $40, all of the cash that she had, and that when the woman's husband later returned home, Park tried to sell meat to him.  Turcotte also said that Park, when questioned by police was "appropriate and polite", and stated to police that "I hit on a lot of women when I go door-to-door.".Michael Phillips, owner of Pacific Prime Gourmet Foods, a company for which Park is a contractor and that supplies meat and other products and leases vehicles to door-to-door salesmen, stated that he has never had any complaints about Park, adding that if Park is convicted, the company "would have no choice" but to sever its business relationship with him, but that right now "He hasn’t been found guilty of anything. We will support him until we hear otherwise."Linda Park, Mr. Park's mother, said in regards to the incident, "That’s not something that I would think that he would do.” She also stated that her son would not have to force himself on someone because "he’s very popular with the women."Park is scheduled to appear in Keene District Court on June 28, 2005.American actor Charlie Sheen was arrested Friday on domestic-violence related assault charges. The 44-year-old was charged with assault, menacing and criminal mischief. He was released on US$8,500 bond from an Aspen, Colorado jail. Aspen police spokeswoman Stephanie Dasaro did not identify the victim in press briefings, citing police policy.Sheen's publicist Stan Rosenfield said not to jump to conclusions, "It would benefit everyone not to jump to any conclusion." Sheen is married to real-estate investor Brooke Mueller Sheen, with whom he had twins in March.Sheen has had incidents in the past, such as in 1990 when he accidentally shot his then-fiancee, Kelly Preston, in the arm. He also had a drug violation in 1998, when he injected himself with cocaine and overdosed.Sheen, born Carlos Irwin Estévez, is the son of actor Martin Sheen began his professional career in The Execution of Private Slovik. However his first starring role was the the 1986 movie Platoon, and he co-starred with Michael Douglas in the Oliver Stone film Wall Street. His filmography also includes Young Guns, Major League, The Rookie and a leading role on the television show Two and a Half Men.On Monday, the American Bar Association denounced President Bush's program of domestic surveillance without court issued warrants.  The program has been the subject of much debate, with the opposition claiming it is unconstitutional, and supporters saying that it is constitutional and that it helps to catch terrorists.In the past, wiretap warrants could be secretly obtained from a special court created by the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act or publicly obtained from any federal court.  The Bush administration maintains that the congressional measure authorizing war in September 2001 empowered eavesdropping without any court issued warrant.  The ABA has also asked Congress to affirm that granting such authority was not its intention.President Bush has claimed that only a small number of Americans were subject to NSA eavesdrop without the usual requisite warrants.  But, Russell Tice, who worked for the NSA for 20 years, has disagreed, saying that millions of Americans could be affected "if the full range of secret NSA programs is used."Mr. Tice said that individual conversations can be isolated based upon keywords, such as 'jihad', but such technology is most often used for keyword based traffic analysis of the conversations of suspects, as well as their acquaintances.The ABA sets academic standards for law schools and controls the code of ethical standards for lawyers. Last May, the NSA revoked Tice's security clearance based upon so-called psychological concerns, and later dismissed him.  Tice has responded that this is simply the NSA's way of dealing with whistleblowers.  NSA has made no further comment.Captain Richard Phillips of the American cargo ship Maersk Alabama has been freed from Somali pirates after being held hostage for four days. The U.S. Navy reports three of the four pirates were killed in a short gun battle with Navy SEALs, with the fourth being taken into custody.Phillips was removed to the USS Bainbridge, a Navy warship, before being flown to another, the USS Boxer, where he was examined and is said to be in good health. Talks between the Navy and pirates were not going well prior to the short battle. "The negotiations between the elders and American officials have broken down. The reason is American officials wanted to arrest the pirates in Puntland and elders refused the arrest of the pirates," said an official involved. The FBI announced it was opening an investigation into the hijacking of the Maersk Alabama, which arrived at its original destination of Mombasa, Kenya on Saturday. "We are all absolutely thrilled to learn that Richard is safe and will be re-united with his family," John Reinhart, CEO of the Maersk Line said. "Maersk Line Limited is deeply grateful to the Navy, the FBI and so many others for their tireless efforts to secure Richard's freedom."City officials in seven United States cities were warned today about a possible attack on NFL stadiums using "dirty bombs." The Department of Homeland Security, which issued the warnings, has also added that the threat is "not credible."The bomb threat, originally discovered on 4chan, stated that truck bombs containing radiological materials would be detonated during the football games this Sunday. While the Department of Homeland Security did not disclose which cities were mentioned, an unnamed department official has said the cities named were Atlanta, Miami, New York, Seattle, Houston, Oakland, California, and Cleveland, Ohio.In response to the threat, several teams are scheduled to sweep some stadiums with radiation detection devices on Sunday for the presence of radioactive materials. In addition, the parking areas and entrances will be monitored closely for suspicious activity. The NFL has released a statement saying that the stadiums are well protected through security measures already in place.The FBI has questioned a Milwaukee resident said to be responsible for the threats, which were posted on the web site last week. The FBI has declined to release the details of the investigation.Evangelist Kent Hovind's ministry filed several DMCA copyright complaints on YouTube causing the video-sharing website to ban several users. Hovind, who is now serving ten years in federal prison, turned Creation Science Evangelism (CSE) over to his younger son, Eric Hovind, in January 2007. In early September CSE claimed copyrights on critical videos that had material produced by Hovind and at least one video that contained no Hovind/CSE material. However, CSE's website stated, "none of the materials ... are copyrighted, so feel free to copy these and distribute them freely." This is a point of contention since CSE is now claiming copyright on material to remove critical analysis. The Rational Response Squad, one of the accounts banned by YouTube, has pledged to sue Hovind/CSE. Last year at Hovind's trial the prosecution and CSE employees noted that CSE was not a church nor was it operating as a legally licensed business.On Monday, Iran released Roxana Saberi, an American journalist with Iranian and Japanese parentage, from prison. Saberi was arrested in April and accused of spying."[Saberi will be] released today," said one of Saberi's defense attorneys, Abdolsamad Khorramshahi. He added that after being released, Saberi "is entitled to leave Iran immediately." She is, however, forbidden from practicing journalism for at least five years in Iran.Her freedom comes after an Iranian court met in a private session for five hours then ruled that her eight year prison sentence was suspended. She was convicted on April 18 and her trial lasted only one day.Saberi was originally arrested in April and sentenced to eight years after being charged with purchasing alcoholic beverages and reporting without the proper media credentials. During her trial, Iranian officials accused her of spying and sending information to U.S. intelligence agencies overseas. At the time, according to Iran's national media, Saberi admitted to spying.ANAPU, Pará, Brazil —Gunmen murdered an American Catholic nun, Sister Dorothy Stang, 73, in Pará, Brazil. The crime occurred Saturday, Feb. 12, at 9:00 a.m.  Her attackers shot Stang six times: once in the head, three times in the back, while she was carrying a Bible.  Another shot, at her neck, was fatal.  The crime occurred in Anapu, Pará, inside the Amazon region.Stang is from Ohio, United States. She had been living in Pará for about 38 years.  She came to Brazil in 1966. She is a member of the Catholic group Sisters of Notre Dame de Namur. She was an activist and had been working at the region of Anapu. Earlier this year, the missionary received an "Honorary Citizenship of the State" from the state of Para. Stang had been defending the Projeto de Desenvolvimento Sustentado(Project of Supported Development) or PDS for short.  The Trans-Amazon development project was designed to generate jobs and income in Anapu.  It supported the creation of an fruit processing industry, the construction of two small 500 kilowatt hydroelectric powerplants, and aided reforestation in degraded areas.  According to Reuters, loggers, ranchers, and large farmers have been strong opponents of the project and of Stang.Stang has already received death threats several times before. In March 2004, she asked for help from Brazilian Federal authorities, saying she and other persons were on a death list. On another occasion, in August 2004, she said, "It is not my safety but that of the people that really matters. All of the Sisters of Notre Dame working in Brazil work very closely with our people and want to be a sign of hope. It is wonderful to be a part of this struggle and this is the contribution of Notre Dame."The police requested the arrest of four suspects. Two are the alleged gunfighters Eduardo and Fogoió, one is a man called Tato who supposedly contacted the gunfighters and the other one is a farmer, Vítor Miro Bastos de Moura, known as Bida who is believed to have contracted the assassins.The Brazilian police also found a body of another man 500 meters from the place were they found the body of the nun. The murdered man was identified as the peasant Adalberto Xavier Leal, known as the Cabeludo or the Hairy Man. He was working for a farmer who had already invaded the area of the PDS maintained by sister Dorothy. The Brazilian police commissioner Marcelo Ferreira said the peasant was killed as a revenge for the murder of sister Dorothy. He received several  shots from an armed group. According to the police the group would be connected to the missionary.The funerals of sister Dorothy Stang will take place in Anapu and Altamira.  She is scheduled to be buried on the morning of Feb. 16 in Anapu.In the United States, a funeral mass is scheduled on March 19 at Mount Notre Dame Convent Chapel in Cincinnati, Ohio.The Brazilian government declared the resolution of the case a high priority. President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva sent two ministers and the federal police force to the region.  Eight Ministers are scheduled to have an extraordinary meeting and discuss the case.Rosana Gisele da Costa, a friend of Stang's from the Institute of Environment Research, told reporters that there must be a more active government presence in the region. "Unfortunatelly this is not a isolated case", da Costa said. She said other people will die if the Brazilian government does not start good political development of the region. She hopes the current actions by the government after the murderer of sister Dorothy will not be temporary.An American sailor has been jailed over the murder of a Japanese taxi driver. Nigerian national Olatunbosun Ugbogu was sentenced in the Yokohama District Court. Ugbogu's lawyers claimed insanity but judges rejected the claim stating he was fully competent. The murder took place in March 2008 when Ugbogu entered the cab of 61-year-old Masaaki Takahashi. Takahashi was ordered to drive approximately 60 km from Tokyo to the US Navy base in Yokosuka. Ugbogu then failed to pay the fare and stabbed Takahashi with a knife and fled the scene. He deserted the Navy the same month. After the murder, the relationship between Japan and the United States became tense. Japanese officials stated that Ugbogu was not handed over to them fast enough, but the US Navy said he was handed over as soon as requested. The strained relationship prompted the US ambassador to apologize to the family of the murdered victim. After the murder the Yokosuka base banned the sale of alcohol and restricted travel. Japan has around 50,000 US military personnel stationed in the country under the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security, and the relationship with locals is often bitter, particularly in Okinawa, where around two-thirds of the American forces are based.The Afghanistan government and the U.S. Army have begun investigations into whether American soldiers burned the bodies of two suspected Taliban fighters and used the burned bodies to taunt enemy forces.The video reportedly showing U.S. soldiers burning the bodies of suspected Taliban fighters outside the southern village of Gonbaz was shown on Australia's SBS television network. The video was taken by Stephen Dupont, who said the burnings happened October 1 while he was embedded with the Army's 173rd Airborne Brigade.Dupont said the incendiary messages later broadcast by the U.S. Army psychological operations unit showed they were aware that the cremation would be seen as desecration. In a televised interview, Dupont told the Australian news agency that: "They [soldiers] used that as a psychological warfare, I guess you'd call it. They used the fact that the Taliban were burned facing west [toward Mecca]. They deliberately wanted to incite that much anger from the Taliban so the Taliban could attack them. ... That's the only way they can find them."The SBS report suggested the actions could violate the Geneva Conventions governing the treatment of enemy remains during wartime which state; "dead are honorably interred, if possible according to the rites of the religion to which they belonged."  The Taliban government, that ruled Afghanistan from 1996 until 2001, when U.S. led force invaded the country and ended their regime, did not recognize the Geneva Convention in their term of rule."We strongly condemn any disrespect to human bodies regardless of whether they are those of enemies or friends," said a Afghanistan spokesman Karim Rahimi."This alleged action is repugnant to our common values," U.S. Maj. Gen. Jason Kamiya said, "This command takes all allegations of misconduct or inappropriate behavior seriously and has directed an investigation into circumstances surrounding this allegation."U.S. Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps has apologized to fans following tabloid pictures of him smoking a marijuana pipe.The 23-year-old multiple gold medalist was pictured yesterday in the British Sunday newspaper The News of the World apparently using a "bong" at a University of South Carolina party he attended whilst visiting a friend on November 6, 2008. He released a statement on his Facebook wall, saying "I engaged in behavior which was regrettable and demonstrated bad judgment."The statement said "I'm 23 years old, and despite the successes I have had in the pool, I acted in a youthful and inappropriate way, not in a manner that people have come to expect from me. For this, I am sorry. I promise my fans and the public - it will not happen again."Marijuana is banned by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) when athletes are actually competing, but not outside of that. Phelps therefore is unlikely to face sanctions from WADA because of the incident. However,  US swimming officials and Fédération Internationale de Natation (FINA), the international swimming federation, will comment later on their thoughts about the incident. FINA banned Gary Hall for three months in 1998 for marijuana use.Phelps has never failed a drugs test in his career and has previously volunteered for extra testing as part of the sport's campaign against performance enhancing drugs. He does, however, have a conviction for drunken driving gained when he was 19. Phelps was named as the U.S. Olympic Committee's male athlete of the year last week and was also Sports Illustrated magazine's "Sportsman of the Year" in 2008. He has endorsement contracts with Speedo, Visa, Guitar Hero and Frosted Flakes.CRAIG, Alaska —Rachelle Waterman, (aka Rachelle Ann Monica Waterman and "smchyrocky"), a 16-year-old girl from Craig, Alaska, USA, has been charged with the first degree murder of her mother.The case has rapidly received a wide following on the Internet, partly because Waterman kept a public record of her thoughts and activities on LiveJournal, a popular blogging service. The last entry, which has since been removed from public view, was posted on November 18, 2004 and read:Just to let everyone know, my mother was murdered.I won't have computer acess [sic] until the weekend or so because the police took my computer to go through the hard drive. I thank everyone for their thoughts and e-mails, I hope to talk to you when I get my computer back.A diverse group of users, both friends and strangers, have posted over 5,000 comments on the journal, positive and negative, transforming the case into an Internet phenomenon. Every entry since March 2004 has apparently now been deleted or hidden, but a ZIP archive of the entire weblog, from before the entries were deleted, is available on Deadly Blogging.Waterman was a tenth-grade honor (A-average) student in her second year at Craig High School. She was also a member of the Academic Decathlon team (ACDC) and sang in the choir, a profile that has left many people questioning her involvement in the killing and asking what motive there might be. At the time police say the killing occurred, Rachelle Waterman was apparently playing in a volleyball tournament in Anchorage, Alaska.Apart from the online diary Rachelle kept, the case is also unusual because matricide committed by female minors is extremely rare.Two relatives of a coach for the American Volleyball team, and their tour-guide, were attacked by a knife-wielding Chinese man Saturday.Todd and Barbara Bachman of Farmington, Minnesota USA, in-laws of Hugh McCutcheon- head U.S. indoor men’s volleyball coach, were touring the Drum Tower in central Beijing when the attack occurred. Mr. Bachman was killed, his wife and their tour-guide were injured and are undergoing treatment at Peking Union Medical College Hospital.Elisabeth Bachman McCutcheon, wife of Hugh McCutcheon and a member of the 2004 United States women’s Olympics volleyball team, was also present for the attack on her parents, but was herself uninjured.The attacker, identified by Chinese state sources as Tang Yongming, a 47 year old from  Hangzhou, Zhejiang leapt to his death from the tower's second story in what was labeled a suicide.A United States Olympic Committee spokesman stated that the victims weren't wearing anything that might have marked them as Americans or as associated with a US team. He further stated that it wasn't known whether the U.S. men's volleyball team would compete in a match scheduled for Sunday and that no extra security was planned for U.S. athletes.U.S. President George W. Bush and his wife Laura were in the city for the Olympic games. Mr. Bush stated, “Laura and I were also saddened by the attack on an American family and their Chinese tour guide today in Beijing. The United States government has offered to provide any assistance the family needs.”Todd Bachman was the CEO of Bachman's, Inc; a regional chain of garden centers based in Minneapolis. He was sixty-two years old.The human rights organisation Amnesty International has accused Israel of committing war crimes by deliberately targeting civilian infrastructure in Lebanon during the Israel-Lebanon conflict, calling the attacks "indiscriminate and disproportionate". Israel has rejected the charge."The pattern, scope and scale of the attacks makes Israel's claim that this was 'collateral damage', simply not credible," said Kate Gilmore, of Amnesty International.Amnesty International cites the magnitude of the destruction caused by Israeli air strikes and artillery bombings, and declarations such as the one made by Israeli Chief of Staff Lt Gen Dan Halutz, that "nothing is safe [in Lebanon], as simple as that", as evidence that civilians were deliberately targeted.Israel rejected the accusation, stating that the bombings of civilian areas was justified because Hezbollah uses civilians as "humans shields" : Lebanese infrastructure was "targeted only when that infrastructure was being exploited by the Hezbollah machine, and this is in accordance with the rules of war", said the Israeli spokesman Mark Regev. "Unlike Hezbollah, we did not deliberately target the Lebanese civilian population", Mr. Regev said. Over 1,000 Lebanese, mostly civilians were killed during the fighting, while 161 Israelis, mostly soldiers, were killed by Hezbollah. The Israeli attacks also wounded about 4,000 people, and turned nearly 1 million people, a quarter of the population of Lebanon, into internal refugees."The families of victims face almost insurmountable challenges and only the most persistent and well-off have been able to get some small measure of justice. Most others are left without any justice for the loss of their loved ones," stated Erwin van der Borght, Director of Amnesty International's Africa Programme."Even worse, the government seems to have permitted and even encouraged a number of obstacles to be put in the way of victims' families as they sought justice."A police spokesman, however, claimed that the report is biased. Police said that officers guilty of illegal killings had been convicted, receiving sentences of over twenty years. However the authorities provided little information to the human rights' group, despite numerous requests. On other occasions they said that no investigations were undertaken as the killing was presumed legal.Mozambique's police minister and his deputy declined to comment.The human rights organization Amnesty International has requested that Iran free journalists imprisoned in the wake of violence which occurred after recent presidential elections in the country. The Iranian government maintains that it has only detained those that have played a role in influencing the recent instability.News media have reported that dozens of journalists have been arrested in Iran, according to Amnesty International there may be up to 30 journalists imprisoned in the country. Amnesty International refers to the imprisoned journalists as "prisoners of conscience."Associated Press reported that reporters for foreign news media outlets have been barred from covering recent events from streets in Iran, and in addition multiple foreign journalists have been forced to leave the country. According to Amnesty International Iason Athanasiadis-Fowden, reporter for The Washington Times, was arrested on about June 19, and Maziar Bahari of Newsweek was arrested on June 21. On June 22, approximately 20 of the 25 employees for the Iran-based newspaper Kalameh Sabz were taken into custody. Kalameh Sabs was founded in 2009 by Mir Hossein Mousavi, the opposition candidate in the recent presidential election.Jenny Leong, co-ordinator of Amnesty International in Australia, expressed concern to ABC Online about the well-being of the imprisoned journalists. "People have been detained for peacefully expressing their views and in the case of journalists it's even more shocking when they are prevented the ability to freely express themselves when it is precisely their job to be able to provide that information," said Leong.Amnesty International stated that Etemad-e Melli newspaper editor Mohammad Ghochani was arrested and is located in a jail of the Ministry of Intelligence and National Security of Iran. Keyvan Samimi Behbehani, a member of the Center for Human Rights Defenders' Arbitrary Arrests Committee and editor of a banned periodical called Nameh, was taken into custody by Iranian officials at his home. Deputy director for the Middle East and North Africa for Amnesty International, Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui, said that without further information from the Iranian government, Amnesty International would be under the impression that authorities were attempting to quash freedom of speech. Sahraoui said that "Unless the authorities lift all unlawful restrictions on freedom of expression which includes the right of journalists to report on events and release all the journalists arrested, we can only assume they are trying to hide evidence of abuse and further silence any critical voice."In an official release from Amnesty International put out Friday, the organization said that by their actions of imprisoning journalists, the Iranian authorities were sending a message that they were only interested in hiding information from the public. "It is shocking that journalists – whose job it is to provide information to others – are being detained, on top of all the other draconian measures the authorities have taken to restrict the free flow of information about what is really happening in Iran. Rather than trying to investigate alleged abuses, the only message the authorities are sending is that they are seeking to hide the truth, both from their own citizens and the rest of the world," read the statement.The human rights watchdog NGO Amnesty International described 2005 as a year of contradictions with signs of hope for human rights being undermined through "deception and failed promises" of "arrogant" governments. Amnesty International issues annual reports on the development of human rights issues, with detailed reports on the situation in every individual country.At the launch of its 2006 International Report, the Secretary General for Amnesty International (AI), Irene Khan, said that a number of governments have "paralyzed international institutions and squandered public resources in pursuit of narrow security interests, sacrificed principles in the name of the 'war on terror' and turned a blind eye to massive human rights violations. As a result, the world has paid a heavy price, in terms of erosion of fundamental principles and in the enormous damage done to the lives and livelihoods of ordinary people".According to the release report, Iraq sank into a "vortex of sectarian violence in 2005." Secretary General Khan warned: "When the powerful are too arrogant to review and reassess their strategies, the heaviest price is paid by the poor and powerless – in this case, ordinary Iraqi women, men and children." A 2004 Lancet study estimates that 100,000 excess deaths have occurred with roughly three times as many injured since the US-led invasion in 2003.Continuing her criticism of international bodies, Ms Khan stated that "Intermittent attention and feeble action by the United Nations and the African Union fell pathetically short of what was needed in Darfur," referring to the conflict that a number of reports estimate has killed over 300,000 people.Irene Khan, Secretary General of Amnesty International, compared the United States detention facility at Guantanamo Bay to a Soviet-era gulag in that it is "entrenching the practice of arbitrary and indefinite detention in violation of international law," she said.   The group's Executive Director William Schulz, on Fox News Sunday, said in response to questioning that they do not "know for sure" whether or not testimonies it has published describing torture and abuse of prisoners by sections of the U.S. military are valid because the U.S. will not give access to the camp to investigate them.  [1]He also said he has no conclusive evidence that U.S. Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld, ordered torture of detainees at the facility. Schulz had previously referred to "apparent high-level architects of torture,", and included Donald Rumsfeld in that group. [2]Director Schulz stated that comparing the installation to a gulag was perhaps not the best choice of words. "...they (detainees) are not in forced labor, they are not being denied food. But," he continued,"  there are some analogies between the gulags and our detention facilities." Schulz alleged that U.S. officials are "running an archipelago of detention facilities," some secret. The report also describes "ghost" detainees who "disappear" and the export of prisoners to countries that are known to practice torture.During his appearance, Schulz argued that his and other human rights groups should be given broader access to the facility. "We don't know for sure what all is happening at Guantanamo," he said, "and our whole point is that the United States ought to allow independent human rights organizations to investigate." The treatment of prisoners at the facility has been in hot dispute recently, with Amnesty International comparing the facility to a "gulag" in its annual human rights report. Bush administration officials condemned the comparison. On Friday, the U.S. government released documents indicating that both guards and detainees at the facility had on a few occasions abused the Qur'an, the Muslim holy book.Prisoners and ex-prisoners at Guantanamo Bay have testified that they have been tortured. David Hicks, still being held, filed an affidavit on August 5, 2004 [3] declaring that he had been tortured, abused and ill-treated during his detention by US military authorities, and that he saw and heard similar treatment inflicted on other detainees. Mamdouh Habib, now free, says about his time at Guantanamo Bay that he was told by interrogators that his family had been killed, and that he was tied to the ground while a prostitute menstruated on him. Professor Christopher Tennant of Sydney University also stated he saw an unsigned medical report from Guantanamo Bay that backed up Habib's claim to have been beaten while in US custody; "Well, the main feature of the medical report from Guantanamo was that he had had repeatedly blood in his urine, which is a very significant symptom and a worrying symptom, and that was consistent with his reports both to me and to the specialist physician who also examined him, and was consistent with the fact that, on examination, he had evidence of discolouration to his skin on his right loin, just over his kidney, which in turn was consistent with old bruising and possibly due to being beaten."A "peacekeeping gap" is likely to plunge Sudan back into major conflict in the Darfur region, according to Amnesty International. The group today added its voice today to a growing disquiet over the worsening situation in that country, as expressed by the International Rescue Committee.In a statement, the body’s Executive Deputy Secretary General Kate Gilmore, confirmed concerns that the Sudanese government are arming soldiers in preparation for conflict, despite signing a peace deal in May. "Eyewitnesses in el-Fasher in North Darfur are telling us that Sudanese government military flights are flying in troops and arms on a daily basis," Gilmore said, urging the international community to act. The U.N. is discussing a draft resolution today to send 20,000 troops into western Sudan to protect the 2.5 million displaced people. But the Sudanese government has rejected calls for foreign intervention, instead suggesting a 26,000-strong domestic force, which Amnesty opposes."How can Sudan — which appears to be about to launch its own offensive in Darfur — realistically propose being a peacekeeper in a conflict to which it is a major party and perpetrator of grave human rights violations," Amnesty officials asked.Anant Gupta who was kidnapped from the elite locality of Sector 14, Noida, India has returned home. He was kidnapped on November 13, 2006 and released by his abductors yesterday morning. The police have made an arrest in the city of New Delhi. The other two accused are absconding. The boy claimed that he was kept in a jungle and was treated nicely by the three men. At a press conference the police claimed that they had identified the kidnappers within 10 hours of the kidnapping. Police said that the three year old Anant was kept at a house in New Delhi and later shifted to Mathura. The kidnappers had threatened the family with dire consequences if their demands were not met. A day after insisting that no ransom was paid the police finally admitted that a sum of Rs. 5 million was paid to the criminals. The ransom amount was later recovered from the home of the accused. In a fresh twist to the story, the grandfather of the boy told the media that it was an autorickshaw driver who brought his grandson home and not the police. The Uttar Pradesh police had claimed that the boy was rescued on Friday by the Special Task Force near the state border.There were several raids conducted in the western regions of the state and several people were detained for questioning even though there are a few loose ends that need to be bridged. This was one of the first instances of kidnapping cases involving an executive of high-profile software company in the recent times. Stories of abduction are common in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.On Saturday night, anarchists reportedly hurled pieces of pavement through the windows of a Royal Bank location, demonstrating against their sponsorship of the Vancouver Olympics.An anonymous posting Sunday evening to Infoshop News, an independent anarchist news website, reports that the Royal Bank of Canada branch at 1st and Commercial had its windows destroyed by "some exceptionally large pieces of pavement".The website describes the bank, a sponsor of the 2010 Olympic and Paralympic Games, as "bastards".It continues, by encouraging anarchists to participate—"you don’t have to wait until the 17 days of official events to begin competing, you can start right now!!!"The anonymous posting on the anarchist website includes a list of thirteen branches of the bank in the city, and encourages fellow anarchists to destroy the property. The site even says "don't forget a gold medal will be given for the most damage at a single location."There was no explanation on the site, as to why Royal Bank was targeted.The bank has supported the Canadian Olympic Movement for 60 years. The RBC Olympians Program was created in 2002, and among the 35 athletes it has supported are diving bronze medalist Blythe Hartley, Jennifer Botterill from the gold-winning women's ice hockey team, and athlete Perdita Felicien. This year, the program is sponsoring a total of 28 summer and winter athletes.Opposition to the 2010 Olympics has focused on the $1.63 billion expense for taxpayers, destruction of natural habitat, and loss of low-income housing to support a fee-based recreational event.An Anglican bishop in Nigeria was abducted by armed men earlier today, according to officials.The incident occurred in Benin City, located in Edo state, where Reverend Peter Imasue was reportedly ambushed on his way home from a church. Official reports say that kidnappers trailed Imasue from Matthew Cathedral to his home, then forced their way into the premises of the residence, and locked the gateman in his security outpost. Imasue was then dragged into a vehicle. It was not immediately known where he was taken.Samuel Salifu, the secretary general for the Christian Association of Nigeria, commented to the Agence France-Presse news agency that "we were told he was kidnapped yesterday. We are trying to establish what exactly happened but we understand the kidnappers are asking for 15 million naira [about US$100,000]."The abduction comes amidst recent tensions between Muslims and Christians in the country, which saw fierce clashes a week ago and five hundred people dead, mainly in the city of Jos.The  Anglican Church in South Australia has agreed to pay up to AU$4 million to 36 victims of alleged paedophile Robert Brandenberg.Brandenberg, a priest and former Church of England Boys Society leader, committed suicide in 1999, on the same day he was to face court on child sex offence charges.Peter Humphries, lawyer for the victims, said the deal was the result of three years of negotiations with the church. "Two thirds of the batch of claims have been assessed and we're satisfied that the church has made sensible offers – we'll be recommending settlement in next day or so," he said.Humphries said he has recommended most of the victims settle with the church. "For those clients who accept offers that will be it," he said.24 victims have agreed to accept the church’s offer and have settled their claims. The remaining 12 are expected to be finalised soon.Angolan police arrested two people earlier today, on charges of attacking the football team from Togo that was travelling by bus en route to a tournament, which left two of the Togolese team's support staff and their Angolan bus driver dead.Macario Lembe, the deputy governor of Angola's Cabinda province, commented on the incident. "Two assailants were captured on Friday, one a few minutes after the attack and the second at the border while crossing into Congo-Brazzaville. The first suspect was injured in his left thigh by police who responded when he opened fire from a tree at the Togolese bus."The two arrested suspects were reportedly part of a team of five that ambushed the Togolese bus with gunfire on Friday as it passed through Cabinda, a province of Angola. The Front for the Liberation of the Enclave of Cabinda (FLEC) group claimed responsibility for the attack.The Togolese team pulled out of the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations football tournament, which opened yesterday, due to the ambush.The Supreme Court of Angola yesterday summoned President José Eduardo dos Santos to explain his decision to appoint his daughter head of the national state-owned oil firm, Sonangol. The pair face claims of nepotism and breach of probity legislation.Isabel dos Santos, Africa's richest woman according to Forbes, is also summoned. She took control of Sonangol in June after her father fired the entire board. Angola is now the continent's largest oil producer, surpassing Nigeria after militancy affected production there. The company nonetheless is struggling to cope with reduced prices for oil.The court's move comes as it accepts a petition by a group of lawyers against the dos Santoses. "It is the first time that the court will examine a decision of the president," said one of them, David Mendes. "The law stipulates that public officials cannot nominate or allow the nomination of family members," he added yesterday.According to Mendes the dos Santoses have eight days to answer the court. One member of ruling MPLA anonymously told reporters "The constitution of Angola is clear: the president does not have to personally explain actions taken during his term in court or in parliament". He said a representative would appear instead.José Eduardo dos Santos has ruled for over 30 years, but has expressed an intention to resign in 2018 following elections next year. Three years ago his son Jose Filomeno dos Santos was made head of the national Sovereign Wealth Fund. Isabel dos Santos owns shares in both Angolan and Portuguese businesses, particularly financial and telecoms firms.About 50 cyclists have been involved in a hit-and-run attack by a car in the suburb of Mascot, just south of the centre of Sydney, Australia.The cyclists, including former Australian Olympian Ben Kersten, and road racer Kate Nichols, were in a group of cyclists hit when a driver who had been "worrying" the rear of the pack, overtook the cyclists, pulled in front of the pack, and then slammed on the brakes.The riders suffered a collection of minor scrapes and bruises, but no deaths were caused. The incident, which has been reported to have caused approximately A$30,000 worth of property damage to the cyclist's vehicles, also caused a semi-trailer to jack-knife, and cars to swerve.  Although the cyclists had been following Australian road rules, the National Roads and Motorists' Association's senior adviser, Anne Morphett, said a large bike pack can sometimes stretch to 40 metres. "They need to break them up so cars can overtake safely. You might have three across and five deep, but not 40 or 50 deep," she said. "We want to see people get their training in but they need to be in areas that are safe - and these are public roads, not a training facility."Kate Nichols, one of the injured, was also seriously injured in a crash in Germany in 2005 involving the Australian women's road cycling team that killed Australian cyclist Amy Gillett.The driver, a 34 year old man from Claymore, has been spoken to, but has yet to be charged.Animal rights activists have demanded that the largest coffee chain in the United Kingdom pull a new advertising campaign because they fear that it will encourage viewers to buy monkeys as pets. The demands are likely to irritate Costa Coffee, who are determined to turn over a larger profit that their arch-rival, Starbucks. Five animal welfare groups have demanded that the advert, which features a futuristic room full of monkeys attempting to use coffee machines, be withdrawn. In a letter to the Rainforest Alliance, the charities say that "the use of wild animals in this way is contrary to your stance on conservation and, in particular, on rainforest species". They urged the Alliance to revoke their endorsement of Costa products unless the adverts were withdrawn. The groups also wrote to the coffee chain, saying that they hoped that Costa — which has over 1,000 outlets in the UK — would "think it appropriate to cease using primates in future productions, and make the decision to withdraw the current advert".The pressure on the coffee giant has led to fears that the company's relationship with the Rainforest Alliance—which "works to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable livelihoods by transforming land-use practices, business practices and consumer behavior"—may be under threat, since animal welfare groups have complained the new advert is in breach of the Alliance's code of conduct. The television advertisement depicts a number of monkeys being unable to use coffee machines, before a Costa barista hand-makes a cup of coffee. The advert, which features a voiceover by actor Bill Nighy, aired for the first time on Friday. Within hours, animal rights campaigners had demanded it be withdrawn. Manufacturers of products endorsed by the Rainforest Alliance must prove they "are demonstrating [their demand for] goods grown and harvested with respect for people, wildlife and the environment".An animal rights protestor who left home-made petrol bombs at buildings of the University of Oxford has been jailed for ten years.  Mel Broughton, a prominent member of the campaign group SPEAK, had denied the charges of conspiracy to commit arson and possession of an article with intent to destroy property, but the jury at Oxford Crown Court found him guilty by unanimous verdict after deliberating for over five hours.Broughton made his devices using water bottles and sparklers. He put one on the roof of a cricket pavilion belonging to The Queen's College in November 2006, and two under a portable cabin at Templeton College in February 2007.  The device at the cricket pavilion, which contained twelve litres of petrol, went off and caused about £14,000 of damage.  The Templeton College petrol bombs, together containing nine litres of petrol, did not ignite, and DNA on one of them linked Broughton to the attacks.  He was protesting about the university's decision to back the construction of an animal research laboratory, and a police search of his home found more sparklers, as well as documents about the university and its staff.This was the second time that Broughton had been convicted of the offences: his conviction in February 2009 was overturned by the Court of Appeal and a re-trial was ordered.  This began on June 16, and ended on Tuesday with Broughton's conviction. Judge Patrick Eccles QC imposed a ten-year prison sentence, which will be reduced by two and a half years for the time that Broughton has already served in custody. When sentencing Broughton after the first trial, Judge Eccles said that these events "were part of a ruthless conspiracy to instil fear in all those connected to the laboratory." An officer from Thames Valley Police, Detective Superintendent Mark Jones, said that Broughton "was someone who believes direct action, in the form of planting explosives and setting fires, is acceptable", adding that the conviction was the "right result".  A university spokesperson said that it "accepted the rights of protestors to voice their objections within the law", but would work "to protect staff and students from criminal activity of any kind."Marking the anniversary of an incident at Tak Bai police station which led to 78 people suffocating while being detained by the Thai army, relatives of the deceased plan to file a lawsuit with the Pattani provincial court seeking 80 million baht (approx. US$2 million, 1.6 million euro) in compensation.Utt Bueraheng, the lawyer representing the families is confident they will win their case as an investigation into the incident took some disciplinary action against involved senior officers.The suit will name the Thai Defence Ministry, Army, Royal Thai Police Office, Interior Ministry, and Narathiwat provincial authorities as defendants.  Earlier in the week other lawsuits were filed in relation to the incident; in all cases the named defendants are the same.The Tak Bai incident is one of the most publicised events of the South Thailand insurgency.  On October 25, 2004 six local men were arrested, accused of supplying defence force weapons to insurgents.  Villagers organised a protest, demanding that the police release the accused.  Instead, the police called in army reinforcements who used tear gas and water cannons on the crowd; shooting started, and seven people were killed.Hundreds of local citizens, mostly young Muslim men, were arrested.  They were made to strip to the waist and lie on the ground.  Their hands were bound behind their backs and later in the afternoon they were loaded into trucks to be taken to an army camp where they were to be detained.  The prisoners were stacked on top of each other in the trucks, and by the time the three-hour trip to the camp was completed, 78 men had suffocated in the heat.The incident provoked widespread protest, not limited to Muslims in the south.  Many non-Muslim Thais were shocked by the army's behaviour.  However the Thai Prime Minister, Thaksin Sinawatra, gave his full support to the army and until these lawsuits were brought, very little disciplinary action had been taken against those responsible.  Thaksin's response in defending the army's actions was to say the men died, "because they were already weak from fasting during the month of Ramadan."The lawsuits brought earlier this week against the five state agencies seek a total of more than eighteen million baht (approx. US$ 440,000 or 370,000 euros) in compensation.  The first lawsuit was filed on behalf of relatives of five of the seven protesters killed outside Tak Bai police station; this suit seeks 5.8 million baht.  The second lawsuit was filed by a group of seventeen of the protesters who were injured in the clash with police and security forces; this suit seeks 12.4 million baht compensation for injury and loss of property.  All of the lawsuits have been brought with the assistance of the Law Society of Thailand.The aftermath of the Tak Bai incident saw many of the protesters seeking asylum in neighbouring Malaysia. Recently forty of those who had fled across the border returned after they had been given assurances by authorities regarding their safety.The leadership of the insurgents remains unclear, with no clearly identified organisational structure, or announced objectives.  However, there have been separatists in the former Malay sultanate since the 1930s.  Under military rule, they were firmly suppressed and only since early 2004 has violence flared in the troubled provinces.  The government reacted to this by declaring Martial law in January of 2004.Despite the imposition of Martial law, attacks on police, government officials, schools and military compounds continued unabated.  This prompted the Prime Minister to introduce an executive decree for administration in emergency situations early in 2005.  Additional troops were dispatched to the troubled provinces bringing the total in the area to 30,000; however, lack of counter-insurgency training and experience meant they have done little in the way of quelling the violence.  In the past six months the army has reported that 298 have been killed, and over 300 injured in attacks.  The estimated total killed since the start of 2004 is claimed to be over one thousand.President Bush signed legislation last Thursday that disallows the posting or e-mailing of messages intended to annoy people without having included your true identity.  The law, Violence Against Women and Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005, contained this as a rider.  The relevant portion of the law is as follows:"Whoever...utilizes any device or software that can be used to originate telecommunications or other types of communications that are transmitted, in whole or in part, by the Internet... without disclosing his identity and with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten, or harass any person...who receives the communications...shall be fined under title 18 or imprisoned not more than two years, or both."Clinton Fein, owner of Annoy.com [1] which allows people to send anonymous annoying messages, reported to CNET that "I'm certainly not going to close the site down. I would fight it on First Amendment grounds." Previous Supreme Court precedent does allow for anonymous, written annoyance.On Wednesday, the Internet hacking collective Anonymous vowed to publish the names of the four suspects involved in the alleged rape of Canadian Rehtaeh Parsons, who committed suicide last week.A message sent to Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) by the hacktivist group called "for immediate legal action" in the case, citing that "If we [Anonymous] were able to locate these boys within 2 hours, it will not be long before someone else finds them."This latest operation by the group, dubbed "Operation Justice For Rehtaeh", led to expression of concern among the members of the RCMP. In an interview with the National Post, Nova Scotia Justice Minister  Ross Landry spoke of the dangers of releasing this crucial information in this ongoing investigation, "We don't want another child taking their life because some vigilante group think it's OK … maybe it's a wrong name — then what would they do to someone?"The 17-year-old Parsons was taken off life support on Sunday following an attempt to take her own life days before. Her mother erected a Facebook page celebrating the life of her daughter as well as acknowledging the true reasons for her daughters tragic passing, "Rehtaeh is gone today because of the four boys that thought that raping a 15-year-old girl was okay, and to distribute a photo to ruin her spirit and reputation would be fun."Anonymous people submitted a video depicting employees of Inghams Enterprises, an Australian poultry producer, to Animal Liberation. The video displays animal cruelty at an Inghams plant in Tahmoor, Macarthur Region, south-west of Sydney. The  video was recorded without the employees' knowledge over a two-week period in February. Animal Liberation maintains that the footage is legitimate.Spokesperson for Animal Liberation Emma Hurst stated to Sydney Morning Herald, "You can see a total disrespect of these animals. There are scenes where they've put the music up very, very loud, the workers are screaming, jumping about, dancing, picking up the turkeys, dancing while holding onto the turkeys, throwing them onto the shackles, and just that whole mentality as though these animals don’t have feelings, that they're objects."Using CCTV, over 140 hours were recorded, depicting 136 incidences of animal cruelty as well as aggravated animal cruelty, resulting in the animals' death or severe conditions. Ms. Hurst said, "Hanging upside down, their legs are already brittle, and we've got footage as well where their legs have actually ripped off from their bodies ... and the legs have been tossed around."Animal Liberation and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) are again calling for the mandatory installation of CCTV cameras in all Australian abattoirs. RSPCA New South Wales chief inspector David O'Shannessy told the ABC that surveillance and inspections of abattoirs should be commonplace in Australia. "The CCTV would certainly send a strong signal to those people working with animals that their welfare is of the highest priority."Inghams CEO Kevin McBain released a statement saying that an investigation had been launched into the "intolerable incidents". "We condemn the animal abuse we have seen in the footage and will — as a matter of urgency — work to review, retrain and reinforce our animal welfare standards throughout our organisation"The New South Wales Police and the New South Wales Food Authority are continuing to investigate the video.The Internet-based group "Anonymous" released a new video on YouTube Monday, announcing international protests outside Church of Scientology centers set for February 10. The video "Call to Action" uses the same computer synthesized voice as a previous video titled "Message to Scientology", which was posted to YouTube last Monday. The "Message to Scientology" video has been viewed over 1,400,000 times, and the "Call to Action" video has already been viewed over 237,000 times.Anonymous is taking action against the Church of Scientology in response to what it sees as suppression of freedom of speech on the Internet.  The group was first motivated after the Church of Scientology issued a copyright infringement claim to YouTube regarding a promotional video of Scientologist Tom Cruise speaking about his beliefs and using Scientology jargon. The Church of Scientology also issued a legal complaint to the website Gawker.com which is also hosting the video, but Gawker has stated it will not take the video down because it is newsworthy.Anonymous set up a movement called "Project Chanology" to coordinate their efforts, and took down several Church of Scientology websites through denial-of-service attacks. Members of Anonymous have also participated in prank calls to Church of Scientology centers, as well as protests or "raids" outside Scientology buildings, and have posted some of their exploits to YouTube. In the "Call to Action" video, Anonymous denies that they are composed solely of "super hackers", stating "Anonymous is a collective of individuals united by an awareness that someone must do the right thing, that someone must bring light to the darkness, that someone must open the eyes of a public that has slumbered for far too long." The video goes on to state "We want you to be aware of the very real dangers of Scientology," citing what they term "gross human rights violations". Specific controversial events in Scientology history are cited in the video, including Operation Freakout and Paulette Cooper, and Operation Snow White. Operation Freakout was the name of a Church of Scientology operation whose goal was to "get P.C. [Paulette Cooper] incarcerated in a mental institution or jail or at least to hit her so hard that she drops her attacks." Paulette Cooper had written a book critical of Scientology called The Scandal of Scientology. Operation Snow White was the name of a Church of Scientology operation where members of the Church's secretive Guardian's Office infiltrated United States government agencies in Washington, D.C. including the I.R.S. The F.B.I.'s investigation into Operation Snow White led them to discover the planning of actions taken against Paulette Cooper.The video concludes by inviting the viewer to "take up the banner of free speech" and protest with Anonymous world wide. In an email to CNET News, Anonymous stated that cities where unknown activities are planned on February 10 include New York City, Montreal, Houston, London, Melbourne, and Los Angeles.On Friday, two spokespersons for the Church of Scientology commented on the recent actions of Anonymous. A spokesman told News.com.au "These types of people have got some wrong information about us," and Church spokeswoman Yvette Shank told Sun Media that she regarded members of Anonymous as a "pathetic" group of "computer geeks". On Monday, Radar reported that the Church of Scientology has asked the U.S. Attorney General's office in Los Angeles, the F.B.I., and the LAPD to start a criminal investigation of possible criminal activity related to the Internet attacks. A source told Radar that the Church of Scientology is arguing that the Internet attacks are a form of "illegal interference with business." Radar also reports that the Church of Scientology is emphasizing its status as a religious organization in the United States, in order to assert that the Internet attacks can be classed as hate crimes.On Saturday, Mark Bunker of the website XenuTV.com posted a video to YouTube criticizing the illegal actions of Anonymous and suggested legal methods for them to retaliate against the Church of Scientology, including peaceful protesting, writing letters to their government representatives, and persuading the United States government to take away the Church of Scientology's tax exempt status. In the video, Bunker states "I'm mainly concerned because you shouldn't be doing things that are illegal, you just shouldn't. It's not morally right, and it's not right when Scientology does it, it's not right when we do it." Bunker's video post has been viewed over 156,000 times. On Sunday, Bunker posted a follow-up video to YouTube where he gives advice to Anonymous on how to peacefully picket. He also provides viewers with resources and weblinks to more information on how to hold a peaceful protest. He concludes this video by imitating Obi-Wan Kenobi's Jedi mind trick technique and voice from Star Wars, stating "And if I may, as Obi-Wan, tell you: You will do nothing illegal ".The Internet-based group "Anonymous" has released statements on YouTube and via a press release, outlining what they call a "War on Scientology".  Church of Scientology related websites, such as religiousfreedomwatch.org have been removed due to a suspected distributed denial-of-service-attack (DDoS) by a group calling themselves "Anonymous". On Friday, the same group allegedly brought down Scientology's main website, scientology.org, which was available sporadically throughout the weekend. Several websites relating to the Church of Scientology have been slowed down, brought to a complete halt or seemingly removed from the Internet completely in an attack which seems to be continuous. The scientology.org site was back online briefly on Monday, and is currently loading slowly.  On Monday, the group released a video titled: "Message to Scientology" on YouTube concerning their intentions to attack the Church of Scientology.  A robotic voice on the video begins with "Hello leaders of Scientology. We are Anonymous," and continues by explaining their motivations: "Over the years we have been watching you, your campaigns of misinformation, your suppression of dissent and your litigious nature. All of these things have caught our eye. With the leakage of your latest propaganda video into mainstream circulation the extent of your malign influence over those who have come to trust you as leaders has been made clear to us. Anonymous has therefore decided that your organisation should be destroyed."  The message goes on to state that the group intends to "expel Scientology from the Internet". As of Wednesday, the video had been viewed 370,347 times, favorited 2,473 times, and is currently YouTube's top third video of the day.The "Message to Scientology" video was highlighted as the "YouTube Video of the Week" by The Michigan Daily. Commenting on the video, the piece states "if this video is any indication, it seems like the assailants mean business". In a blog post on USA Today's website, Jess Zielinski wrote that it was "not a shock that hackers hold a grudge against Scientology," and in a followup post on another USA Today blog, Angela Gunn wrote that "those of us who remember ... the adventures of Operation Clambake are fascinated to see this kind of thing flare up again". Blogging for Wired magazine, Ryan Singel wrote about the incident in a piece on Wednesay titled "War Breaks Out Between Hackers and Scientology -- There Can Be Only One". Singel wrote that the Project Chanology wiki page "directs Anonymous members to download and use denial of service software, make prank calls, host Scientology documents the Church considers proprietary, and fax endless loops of black pages to the Church's fax machines to waste ink". According to Wired, "The Church of Scientology did not immediately respond to a call for comment".The viewpoints expressed in the video are echoed on the "Project Chanology" website, an open source of information and direction for those within Anonymous, which talks of tactics such as blackfaxing and prank calling alongside other "real-life" methods of attack. The satirical website Encyclopedia Dramatica also has a similar page devoted to "Project Chanology"."Anonymous" released a statement on Monday in the form of a press release, "Internet Group Anonymous Declares "War on Scientology": "Anonymous" are fighting the Church of Scientology and the Religious Technology Center". In the statement, the group explained their goal as safeguarding the right to freedom of speech "A spokesperson said that the group's goals include bringing an end to the financial exploitation of Church members and protecting the right to free speech, a right which they claim was consistently violated by the Church of Scientology in pursuit of its opponents." The press release also claimed that the Church of Scientology misused copyright and trademark law in order to remove criticism from websites including Digg and YouTube.  The statement goes on to assert that the attacks from the group "will continue until the Church of Scientology reacts, at which point they will change strategy".The attack was reportedly motivated by the Church of Scientology's attempts to remove a promotional video featuring Scientologist Tom Cruise from YouTube. After the Church of Scientology lodged a copyright infringement complaint with YouTube, the site took down the video. The Tom Cruise video is still available on Gawker.com, which has stated it will not remove the video "It's newsworthy, and we will not be removing it."  Gawker.com discussed the actions of the "Anonymous" group, in a post on Monday titled "Scientology vs. the Internet: Why Kids On The Internet Are Scientology's Most Powerful Enemy". Gawker.com briefly outlined actions of other anonymous users critical of Scientology, including actions taken in the past by users of YouTube, Digg, and YTMND "This isn't the only group of Internet users unafraid of the intimidating cult; a whole range of sites has turned the Church into a mockery by doing what mainstream celebrity-coverage outlets wouldn't dare."A poster on the newsgroup alt.religion.scientology (a.r.s.) was critical of the actions by the "Anonymous" group.  In a post titled "Open Letter to Anonymous" Jeff Jacobsen, webmaster of lisamcpherson.org, posting as "cultxpt" wrote that "It's understandable that people get upset over the things the Church of Scientology has done online and off", pointing out that the Church of Scientology had "tried to shut down a.r.s.", and "spam our newsgroup to this day". In 1999 "sporgery", a form of nonsensical spam tactic, was used as an attempt to disrupt discussion on the newsgroup. Previously in 1995 Helena Kobrin, an attorney for the Church of Scientology, attempted to remove the a.r.s. group from Usenet. Kobrin sent a rmgroup message which stated: "We have requested that the alt.religion.scientology newsgroup be removed from all sites". This later led to a declaration of war by the hacker group Cult of the Dead Cow, and an increase in popularity of the a.r.s site. This initial conflict came to be known as "Scientology versus the Internet".The post from Jacobsen went on to criticize the actions of the "Anonymous" group, stating: "We're supposed to be the good people," and stated that contrary to the Anonymous group's tactics, "Our weapons as critics are reason, evidence, argument, and free speech".On Tuesday, the founder of Operation Clambake, a non-profit organization and website critical of Scientology based in Stavanger, Norway, released a statement about the attacks by "Anonymous". Andreas Heldal-Lund was critical of the "Anonymous" groups actions, stating: "The author of Operation Clambake does not condone such activity. Attacking Scientology like that will just make them play the religious persecution card. They will use it to defend their own counter actions when they try to shatter criticism and crush critics without mercy." Heldal-Lund went on to emphasize the right of all people and organizations to freedom of speech - including the Church of Scientology: "Freedom of speech means we need to allow all to speak - including those we strongly disagree with. I am of the opinion that the Church of Scientology is a criminal organisation and a cult which is designed by its delusional founder to abuse people. I am still committed to fight for their right to speak their opinion."News spread in the Red Lake community today as funerals for Jeff Weise and three of the nine victims were held that another student was arrested in connection with the school shootings of March 21.  Authorities said little officially beyond confirming today's arrest.  However, a source with knowledge of the investigation told the Minneapolis Star-Tribune that it was Louis Jourdain, 16-year old son of Red Lake Tribal Chairman Floyd Jourdain.  It is not known at this time what charges will be laid or what led authorities to the boy but juvenile proceedings have begun in federal court. Last Tuesday, investigators had said that Weise had acted alone and his motives were unknown though he suffered from depression and expressed interest in Nazism.ANAPU, Pará, Brazil —According to the Brazilian newspaper O Estado de São Paulo the body of a prominent Brazilian agriculturalist was found on the morning of Tuesday, February 15, in Anapu, Pará, Brazil.The man, identified as the agriculturist Cláudio Branco who was also known by the nickname Mato Grosso, had received several gun shots to his chest. He was found in Anapu at Gleba Manduacari, on government property controlled by the agency Incra. The area was to be used by slain sister Dorothy Stang in a new project. Branco's body was moved to Altamira for an autopsy.Early this morning, a grenade attack on People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) protesters at Thailand's Government House injured eight, two seriously.This is the second attack this week, following an earlier grenade attack on Thursday which killed one and injured between 20 and 29. The earlier attack prompted planning for a rally and march on parliament tomorrow where the PAD aims to try and topple the current People's Power Party (PPP) government.According to Thailand's English-language paper, The Nation, doctors have stated that one of those injured in the blast is brain dead. Anupong Samerphak, one of the PAD security staff, was hit in the body and neck by shrapnel from the grenade and remains on a respirator.Further details of The Nation's report state that eyewitnesses claim two teenagers made use of a grenade launcher to carry out the attack before making their escape on a motorcycle. In addition to the eight casualties, two pick-up trucks, a car, and a motorcycle were damaged; the blast left a crater near the Fifth gate of the Government House compound.The anti-government PAD protesters have now been occupying the Government House compound for over three months, demanding the dissolution of the government of Prime Minister Somchai Wongsawat. They assert that the PPP is acting on behalf of deposed former premier Thaksin Shinawatra, whose populist Thai Rak Thai (lit. Thais love Thais) government was overthrown by a military coup in 2006 and later outlawed. Both Somchai and his predecessor in the post of PM, Samak Sundaravej, have faced fierce criticism from the yellow-shirted protest movement. Samak was forced out of office in September, with Somchai, Thaksin's brother-in-law, acting as caretaker until officially assuming the office later in September.The embattled current PM, Somchai, expressed fears to journalists over the planned PAD protest for tomorrow and Monday. Speaking in Peru, where he is attending an APEC summit, he highlighted the possibility of the demonstrations impeding the passage of 24 new laws related to the country's involvement in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). Delegations from other nations attending the APEC summit have expressed surprise that Thailand has not taken action to dislodge the protesters from Government House.File:021018 bali bombing.jpgPolice in Indonesia said today that they have captured the top leader of the Jemaah Islamiyah terrorist organization.The man, known as Zarkasih, or Mbah, was captured last Saturday in Yogyakarta on Java, the same day another Jemaah Islamiyah leader, Abu Dujana, was captured, also on Java.Jemaah Islamiyah, believed to be connected to the al-Qaeda terrorist network, is blamed for several acts of terrorism in Indonesia, including the 2002 Bali bombings, the 2003 Marriott Hotel bombing, the 2004 Jakarta embassy bombing and the 2005 Bali bombings.Police said Zarkasih, 45, confessed to being the head of Jemaah Islamiyah. He is also known as Mbah, which means "grandfather" in Javanese language. Police said he came to prominence as the organization's other leaders were captured or went into hiding."I became the emergency head in 2005," Zarkasih said in a videotaped confession, which police played for reporters.Abu Dujana, 39, was head of Jemaah Islamiyah's military operations, police said. He is believed have directed anti-Christian attacks and beheadings in Poso, Central Sulawesi, and had taken part in the 2003 and 2004 hotel and embassy bombings in Jakarta.Police said both Zarkasih and Abu Dujana left Indonesia in the 1980s for Afghanistan, where they likely developed links with al-Qaeda.Police in Auckland, New Zealand were dispatched to two incidents, one at Television New Zealand and Greenstone Pictures in which envelopes containing notes saying "anthrax" and a white powdery substance were discovered. The police, fire service and bomb disposal unit were called in with a device that can detect anthrax,  and it was later determined that the substance found was not anthrax, but was in fact a fertilizer and the letters, an apparent hoax. The substance will be shipped to the capital and will be screened by Environmental Sciences and Research to determine what exactly the substance is. Emergency services blocked of roads and the people who were exposed to the suspect letters were decontaminated. No injuries are reported and no one has yet experienced any symptoms of exposure.The Anti-Poverty Committee (APC) has taken full responsibility for four people splattering latex paint on the front of British Columbia premier Gordon Campbell's office in Vancouver Thursday afternoon. They tried to break into the office and frightened staff.The four were described as three women and one man wearing white painter suits and face masks. One was recording the event on video. A constituency assistant said they put posters on the outside of the building. They splattered the front of the building with paint.The paint represented three official colours of the Olympic flag; yellow, red and green."I think the activists should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law," said the premier. "Frankly, this is about seeing their faces on television."Attorney General of British Columbia Wally Oppal spoke out against the group: "It's disturbing when you have people like these, who are continually intimidating law-abiding citizens and I think the public is getting sick and tired of this group."The group vandalised and broke into Campbell's office in Vancouver last May when they posed as a flower delivery service and quickly ransacked his office breaking windows and throwing pictures, office documents, and various other items. They also threw yellow paint and put posters on the Olympic Clock in downtown Vancouver last April.They believe that poor citizens are losing their homes due to the money spent and developments near the city on preparation for the long-awaited 2010 Winter Olympics."Why we went to the premier's office was to protest the budget, the lack of any real money being spent on what poor people need, you know, housing, not hotels but real social housing," said David Cunningham, a spokesman for the group. The budget has "billions of dollars compounded in surplus at the expense of poor people's lives," he told the CBC. Cunningham said the group will not stop the "criminal acts" until the government's budget surplus is spent on social housing and on the citizen's."Just after 2 p.m. a group of people attended the premier's office … and threw paint on the exterior of the building," said Const. Jana McGuinness of the Vancouver Police Department. "This is a criminal charge. This is mischief, so if charges are warranted we'll definitely be laying charges."No arrests were made as the four managed to leave before police arrived.A number of rallies were held in Sydney on Sunday to protest against what they describe as racism in the community. The National Union of Students organised an event at Town Hall, and the Ted Noffs Foundation held an event in Belmore Park later in the day. About 2,000 people marched through Sydney, and there were also gatherings in Newcastle, Brisbane, and Melbourne. Lebanese Australian student Chadi Sankary rejected alcohol as an excuse for racist and violent behaviour. "People are not willing to admit that this is about racism," he said. "You can't be under the influence of alcohol and paint your massive banners with racial slogans on them or you can't make t-shirts while you're drunk so it can't be accepted as an excuse."Matt Noffs, of the Ted Noffs Foundation, said that the solution to racism lies with the people, not politicians. He also criticised the weeks police operation, saying that it will not provide a long-term solution. "I don't feel that the responses that have been made during the week have actually helped the situation," he said. "They might have suppressed some of the violence that is sure to happen in these situations anyway but they certainly don't look at the solutions."Tim Longhurst, one of the organisers, said that the rally showed the true nature of Sydney as a tolerant city. "What we saw today wasn't new. Sydney has always been a place where people do get along, and today they came out in force to show that," Mr Longhurst said.In a statement supporting the rally, Socialist Alliance linked the Cronulla riots to government policies and actions. "The riots reflect the rising racism in Australia, a tide that has been fostered by the Howard government’s policies and propaganda that criminalise and lock up refugees, dehumanise and bomb the Iraqi people, and define all Muslims and Middle-Eastern Australians as potential terrorists."One Sydney blogger criticised the rallies because they focused on racism against minority groups such as Lebanese, instead of racism in general. "They're picking on only one face of the disgusting racism that has come to a boil in this city recently, and tried to say they're taking a stand against racism," he said, calling the rally "the racist anti-racism protest."The video sharing website YouTube has removed several anti-Scientology videos following threats of legal action. Wikinews found that at least 11 videos have been removed from the site following Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) notices served on YouTube by Dr. Oliver Schaper, Scientologist and self-described advocate of the Church of Scientology's rights to free speech. Schaper, in an interview with Wikinews reporter Jason Safoutin, denied involvement in a previous run of DMCA requests involving similar video material. However, the videos in question bear a message that Schaper was the originator of the request.According to YouTube the 11 videos were removed by direct DMCA requests from Schaper. The videos have been reported to be of anti-Scientology protests, recorded by various members of the group Anonymous.In early September, an entity named American Rights Counsel LLC -- which has described itself as a  'rights group', but without provision of contact details -- requested the removal from YouTube of over 4,000 anti-Scientology videos. Many of these videos consisted entirely of self-made content by anti-Scientology protesters; others were quite explicitly extracts from official Church of Scientology footage. Users had initially speculated that Schaper was responsible for these requests; no evidence, however, has been obtained to this effect, nor has official comment been obtained from American Rights Counsel.When comment was requested further to these earlier removal requests, Schaper stated that he was a "... very strong advocate for the Church of Scientology, the religion of Scientology and a free speech advocate." Schaper alleged that he had "...to this date no information about the American Rights Counsel" and "no connection, knowledge or involvement in this company [American Rights Counsel]". Wikinews contacted Schaper to find out why he made the new requests. According to him, the videos were not of protests against Scientology, but instead were videos of alleged hate-crimes and hate-speech, which were allegedly attacking Schaper personally. "None of the videos are accounts of any protests. The videos in question have been produced by an YouTube (U.K.) user to directly attack me and my companies. I made the requests in accordance with YouTube’s terms and condition, after confirming directly with YouTube and the local ECTF office in Los Angeles, to remove material that infringes on my copyright. None of the videos removed by YouTube fall under the fair use guidelines or can be considered news-worthy. The content of the videos has been classified by law-enforcement as hate-speech and frivolous attack. The producers of these videos are based in the U.K. and local law-enforcement has been contacted by the FBI," said Schaper to Wikinews.When Wikinews asked Schaper if he was acting on behalf of the Church, Schaper denied any such involvement. He also stated that he was not attempting to remove videos critical of him, or the Church, but also emphasizes other videos still on YouTube that are "a personal attack against me and my beliefs.""Despite the fact that I am a Scientologist, none of the videos removed, where removed on behalf of the Church of Scientology or any organization associated with the church. In addition I like to point out that I have not removed any video, critical of me personally which does not violate my copyrights and I have no intention to do so," said Schaper.In addition, Wikinews invited Dr. Schaper to comment on the apparent discrepancy between his actions and his advocacy of free speech. Dr. Schaper feels that that the two stated aims are not in conflict, stating, "I believe the First Amendment but I also see how Anonymous tries to abuse these liberties. Not everything is protected under the free speech clause and laws have been enacted to protect each citizen from abuse."Schaper also stated that Anonymous is "breaking the law" by uploading material to YouTube which could be considered hate crimes. He also states that he would not mind a one-on-one conversation with some members of Anonymous, but "these guys don’t have the balls for a direct sit-down because they should get their facts straight.""Anonymous is overstating a case and claims that their abuse and online bullying would be protected under the First Amendment forgetting the fact that they indeed are breaking the laws," added Schaper.Schaper does not plan on enforcing the Church's copyrights saying, "they can handle their own content" and that he "will continue to enforce my copyrights and seek full prosecution in cooperation with federal law-enforcement."Wikinews has contacted YouTube for a statement regarding this incident, but has yet to receive a response.Around 17 people were arrested and a number of guns and weapons were seized earlier this morning (NZDT) at "terrorist" training camps and anarchist group homes following raids by the New Zealand Police around the country. The raids were under the Terrorism Suppression Act 2002 and Arms Act.The raids, conducted by over 300 armed police officers, focused on indigenous Māori and environmental activists, including activist Tame Iti. Iti faces eight counts relating to firearms, including having a semi-automatic shotgun and two molotov cocktails. He is well known in New Zealand for many high profile cases, including a sedition charge for shooting the New Zealand flag, for which he was later acquitted, during Waitangi day in 2005.Police Commissioner Howard Broad said that those targeted were from various ethnicities and from different motivations.Commissioner Broad said, "It was military-style activity they were training for", adding that he did not believe "protest activity involves firearms or other weapons." One training camp raided by police was "guerilla-style" in the Urewera mountain ranges. Guns, ammunition and grenades were found in the camp. No one has yet been charged with a crime against the Terrorism Suppression Act, only with charges relating to the Arms Act. "[The Police] are proceeding with full care in talking to people and assessing information before we can determine whether there is sufficient evidence to seek the consent of the Attorney General through the Solicitor General to charge anyone under [the Terrorism Suppression Act]," Commissioner Broad said. "This is the first time that the Terrorism Suppression Act has been considered in terms of an operation."Warrants were executed in New Zealand's largest city, Auckland; the capital, Wellington; Christchurch; Palmerston North and towns in the Eastern Bay of Plenty region. The warrants were issued under the Summary Proceedings Act, which allows searching for evidence of committing an offence against the Terrorism Suppression and Arms acts.The police were informed of the existence of the camps by hunters who stumbled across a training operation being conducted by the groups. The raids were undertaken after evidence was gathered during 2006 and 2007 and followed months of police work. Police had infiltrated the camps, and taken video footage of weapons training. Phone and text message communications and conversations between suspects were recorded. Commissioner Broad said, "Based on the information and the activity known to have taken place, I decided it was prudent that action should be taken in the interests of public safety.". Reports have indicated a specific threat to the Prime Minister, Helen Clark, was involved.Prime Minister Helen Clark was briefed on the raids last week by police but refused to comment to reporters earlier today.Those who have been arrested and appeared in court today were given interim name suppression.Over 350 protesters, including anti-war activist Cindy Sheehan, were arrested Monday near the White House. Sheehan was fined $75 for demonstrating without a permit.The protestors demanded to speak with current US President George W. Bush. The demonstrators sat on the sidewalk illegally, after marching along the pedestrian walkway on Pennsylvania Avenue in front of the White House. Police reportedly warned the demonstrators numerous times of the law, then began making arrests.Sheehan has announced that she will not pay the fine, and is scheduled to appear in court on November 16.A defamation lawsuit filed by Malaysia's former deputy prime minister Anwar Ibrahim against retired prime minister Mahathir Mohamad, who had said Anwar was homosexual, was dismissed today by a High Court judge.In his lawsuit, filed in January 2006, Anwar sought damages of 1 million ringgit (about US$290,000), against Mahathir, after Mahathir had stated at a human rights conference that he had to dismiss Anwar because he was gay – an accusation that had caused Anwar to serve six years in prison.Mahathir had filed a counter motion, seeking dismissal of the suit on the grounds that it was scandalous, frivolous and vexatious. In a 48-page affidavit, Mahathir said Anwar was using the suit to "rehabilitate himself for high office"."The plaintiff's action is unsustainable based on background evidence ... and the [Mahathir]'s application to strike out is therefore allowed with cost," High Court Judge Tengku Maimon Tuan Mat was quoted as saying by Agence France-Presse (AFP). Neither Anwar nor Mahathir were present for today's hearing."I have informed Anwar Ibrahim of the decision and he is indeed quite upset and he has instructed that we file an appeal as we are dissatisfied with the decision," Anwar's lawyer, Sankara Nair, was quoted as saying by AFP.At a Malaysian Human Rights Commission conference in September 2005, Mahathir said he had to dismiss Anwar because having a homosexual in his Cabinet would have been immoral.Mahathir's remarks stemmed from sodomy charges brought against Anwar in September 1998, which along with corruption charges, disgraced Anwar and sent him to prison for six years.Anwar has said the accusations were politically motivated to keep him from challenging Mahathir. The sodomy conviction was later overturned after two appeals, but the corruption charges stood.Judge Tengku Maimon noted that, although the sodomy conviction was overturned, earlier court findings proved the charge that Anwar had sodomized his former family driver, Azizan Abu Bakar."Hence, given the background facts of the case  ... it is apparent that the defenses are bound to succeed. No purpose would have been served in insisting that the defenses be proven at a full trial," Tengku Maimon was quoted as saying by Bernama.From the early 1990s, Anwar was being groomed by Mahathir, his former mentor, to take over as prime minister, but by the end of the decade, conflicting views on governance had deteriorated the "father-son" relationship.With Anwar in jail, Mahathir retired in 2003 after 22 years in office, turning power over to Prime Minister Abdullah Badawi.Anwar was released from prison in 2004, having his sentence reduced by the successful overturning of the sodomy conviction. He is barred from seeking public office until 2008. Earlier this year, he sought to be named leader of Parti Keadilan Rakyat, the party of which his wife Dr. Wan Azizah is president, but was prevented from doing so because of the political ban.In other recent legal cases, Anwar had proven victorious. In 2005, he won a judgment of $1.2 million against author Khalid Jafri, who had written a book that accused Anwar of fathering an illegitimate child. DNA tests proved the child was not his. Anwar also forced a public apology from a former police chief who had beat him in custody in 1998.Native Americans are petitioning Congress to investigate the elite Skull and Bones group and return what they believe are the remains of Apache warrior Geronimo for reburial. The petition alleges that Geronimo's grave was robbed in 1918 by members of the society, including Prescott Bush, President George W. Bush's grandfather. The alleged graverobbers stole Geronimo's head and his prized silver bridle, which had been buried with him. These allegations are also within a book by Yale graduate, Alexandra Robbins, titled; "Secrets of the Tomb". Robbins suggests that the reason these men robbed graves is; "Bones as a society is preoccupied with death; skulls, skeletons, and artwork depicting death are prevalent in the tomb. When Bonesmen steal things they use the euphemism that they are taking 'gifts to the goddess' whom they honor within the tomb." Robbins also said; "I think it's ridiculous that Bonesmen's sense of entitlement is broad enough to include items that allegedly don't belong to them. The items they supposedly steal as a prank or competition may be valuable and meaningful to the actual owners. It's appalling that proper authorities have not forced their way into the tomb to retrieve the items that don't belong in there."An economics professor at Clark College, James Craven, suggests that; "In the near future, there will finally be large groups of Natives showing up in front of 'the tomb' to protest this ugly racism and grave robbing by the Bones, and they will not be leaving until that skull and any other Native artifacts have been returned...[The theft] is a metaphor for something much bigger and even uglier. It is the ugly racism and hubris of the in-bred power elites who seek to infiltrate positions of power."In her book, Robbins also reports that Apaches met with Skull and Bones representatives following their admission by letter that they did in fact have a skull they called "Geronimo". The Apaches were offered some bones, but refused to accept them at that time because, according to the petition; "It was obviously not the skull seen in the smuggled photograph."Endicott Davison, an attorney for Skull and Bones, denied that Geronimo's skull is in the possession of the group.According to the Tribunal spokesman Raed Jouhi, the Iraqi High Tribunal's appeals court in Baghdad confirms the sentence of death against the former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, after a month and a half of trial review. According to the CNN, no sentence has been notified to Saddam Hussein yet.On November 5, Hussein was sentenced to death for his role in the Dujail massacre in 1982, in which 148 Shiites died.According to Iraqi laws, Hussein would be hanged within 30 days, and there is no chance of pardon.A global supply manager for Apple Inc. was arrested Friday in California and indicted for wire fraud and money laundering, after accepting over US$1 million in kickbacks. The manager, 37-year-old Paul Shin Devine, used a system of international bank accounts and a front organization in order to receive the payments, reported the San Jose Mercury News.Andrew Ang, of Singapore, was also named in the indictment. Ang is accused of receiving confidential data, as well as accepting a portion of the kickbacks paid to Devine.Devine, who lives in Sunnyvale, allegedly passed on confidential information to Asian suppliers of iPhone and iPod accessories in exchange for more than US$1 million. The suppliers were then able to use the information to negotiate better contracts with Apple. The Wall Street Journal named several of the suppliers in question as China-based Kaedar Electronics, South Korea-based Cresyn, and Singapore-based Jin Li Mould Manufacturing, where Ang had worked until 2008.According to his LinkedIn profile, Devine was a 1996 graduate of the United States Merchant Marine Academy and a 2005 graduate from the MIT Sloan School of Management. He began working at Teradyne in 1998 and left to join Apple in 2005.In addition to the 23-count federal indictment, Devine is also the subject of a civil lawsuit filed by Apple. The company said that he took more than US$1 million in "payments, kickbacks and bribes" over a period of several years. An Apple spokesperson said that the company "is committed to the highest ethical standards in the way [it does] business," and that there is "zero tolerance for dishonest behavior inside or outside the company."Devine is being held by the US Marshals Service and was scheduled to appear in a hearing at the US District Court in San Jose, California at 1:30 p.m. PST (20:30 UTC) today. He was not available for comment.Archbishop William Joseph Levada, who was the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Portland, Oregon from 1986 to 1995, was deposed in San Francisco on January 9. Levada was questioned by the plaintiffs in a lawsuit seeking damages from the Archdiocese of Portland for sexual abuse allegedly performed by priests in the archdiocese. The archdiocese filed for bankruptcy protection days before the trial was set to begin.Levada, one of the highest ranking Americans in the Vatican, was the Archbishop of San Francisco from 1995 to 2005, when he was appointed to succeed Pope Benedict XVI as Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. Levada was served with a subponea to testify in this case last August, immediately before leaving the United States to assume his new duties in Rome. When Levada arrived at the deposition, he was served another subponea, to testify in an abuse case involving the Archdiocese of San Francisco. Michael Morey, an attorney for the plaintiffs, stated, "We expect to find out what he knows and when he knew it." The plaintiffs are seeking over $150 million in damages. Kelly Clark, another plaintiff attorney, stated, "We are trying to prove that the Archdiocese of Portland, over the last 40 years, had a policy and practice of responding to child abuse claims in a less-than-appropriate manner." Judge Elizabeth Perris barred attorneys from asking Levada about his current position, or his activities when serving at the Congration during the late 1970s and early 1980s.A federal bankruptcy judge ruled on December 30 that parish and school assests of the Portland Archdiocese can be used to pay claims and other debts of the archdiocese.  The archdiocese had argued that the assets were not under its control, and therefore not available to settle the claims.The body of a man was discovered on a street in Lancaster, California around 1:45 a.m PDT (UTC-7) Tuesday morning with an arrow stuck deep into his chest. Sheriff's deputies who responded to the crime scene at 13th Street and Avenue K initially thought the victim to have been homeless, but he was later identified as Angel Martinez, age 62, who resided in Lancaster."Who would want to do something like that to an elderly person?" said Tony Martinez, a local resident who was among those who found the victim. "And what was an elderly man doing out here anyway that late?"The attacker, who struck by night, is being sought by authorities.The judge ordered the cessation of broadcasts by the local relay transmitter of Canal 7 television station in Mendoza's capital. The inhabitants of this city and Maipú, Luján de Cuyo, Lavalle, San Martín, Palmira, Junín, Santa Rosa, La Paz and Rivadavia Departments lost access to the public television.The country's Media Secretary, Public Broadcasting System and Channel 7 will appeal the resolution of the Second Federal Court of Mendoza."We are going to do everything necessary to defend the right to the information", said Rosario Lufrano, the executive director of Canal 7. In addition, she added that they would go to Mendoza all the times that be necessary, since they had done it with San Rafael, to achieve that all the citizens have free and free access to the unique national channel that has Argentina.In 2007, Channel 7 had installed new relay in the cities of Mar del Plata, Bariloche, Neuquén, Santa Rosa, Comodoro Rivadavia, San Rafael and Mendoza. Nevertheless, in San Rafael and Mendoza they had problems, due to the judicial presentations made by Vila-Manzano Group's companies.A Commission of Neighbors called for a day of mobilization for the next January 30 in the downtown of Mendoza, to repudiate the measure adopted by the judge.Argentine admiral and member of the 1976 Argentine coup d'état Emilio Eduardo Massera has died at the age of 85.File:Emilio Eduardo Massera.jpgMassera died after suffering from an episode of cardiovascular arrest. He was one of the three men to rule Argentina from 1976 to 1983. Some human rights groups said that up to 30,000 people were killed during hi military rule.As Commander of the Navy Massera, along with General Jorge Rafael Videla and Orlando Ramón Agosti toppled the then Argentine President Isabel Martínez de Perón. The three ran the country under military rule for 7 years.Massera ran the torture centre at the navy mechanical school in Buenos Aires. There he oversaw the death of thousands of political prisoners. In 1985 at the trial of the junta leaders, Massera was sentenced to life in prison on charges of murder, torture and robbery. He only served five years of his sentence after he was released under an amnesty law.However, in 1998 he was placed under house arrest. He was charged with the stealing of babies born to political prisoners, a crime not protected under amnesty law. He had his life sentence reinstated in 2007, but due to a stroke he suffered in 2002, he was deemed too ill to face prosecution.The Supreme Court of Argentina today ruled that a decree issued by the Argentine ex-president Carlos Saúl Menem was unconstitutional. The decree pardoned military general Santiago Omar Riveros, charged for crimes against humanity which were committed during the "Guerra Sucia", a military rule (1976-1983) in Argentina.The members of the Supreme Court of Justice decided by a majority of four votes the revoke of the pardon towards Riveros. The votes were as follows:SupportRicardo LorenzettiJuan Carlos MaquedaEugenio ZaffaroniElena HightonOpposeCarlos FaytCarmen ArgibayAbstainEnrique PetracchiThe Supreme Court thus retracted the pardon towards Riveros. The ruling also left an open door for the cases of other pardoned generals, such as Jorge Videla and Eduardo Massera."Crimes against humanity, because of their seriousness in nature, are not only contrary to the Constitución Nacional, but as well to the entire international community," the Supreme Court ruled. Nearly 30,000 disappeared in the Argentina military dictatiorship.Factory workers at a ceramic factory in Neuquén, Argentina are preparing to defend their autonomous running of their workplace, as the courts start to look at appointing an owner. The workers have been running the factory themselves since the Argentinian government meltdown in 2001, and say they are more effective working independently.There are now 410 workers at FaSinPat ('Fabrica sin Patrones' or 'Factory without Bosses'), having hired over 170 new workers in four years of autonomous control. The factory is widely known as Zanon, the name under the previous owner, Luis Zanon, who accumulated some US$170 million in debt, and shut down the factory, firing the workers.Argentinian government and businesses were in chaos at the time, with the government dissolving repeatedly and defaulting on $88 billion of debt, inflation skyrocketing and people demanding money from banks who had closed their doors.Like over 200 Argentinian workplaces facing similar conditions, the workers chose spontaneously to run the factory themselves, and continued maintenance and production, to keep trading on their own behalf.Now thirty workers have travelled the 1,200 kilometers to Buenos Aires, presenting a petition containing thousands of signatures from all over the world at the central courthouse, and mobilising outside."With these actions we are marking a playing ground for the judge," said Raul Godoy, Zanon worker and General Secretary of the Ceramists' Union.On Tuesday an Arizona appellate court ruled that the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, a federal law that bans using autodialers to call mobile phones or pagers, also applies to text messages sent to mobile phones.The three-judge Court of Appeals panel upheld the trial judge’s ruling in favour of Rodney L. Joffe. He sued Acacia Mortgage Corp. in 2001, for $55,000 in damages for harassment. Acacia used a web-based system to send the text messages, which translates the users phone number into an e-mail address. Acacia argued that the company was not making calls to mobile phones, but rather sending e-mails. "Even though Acacia used an attenuated method to dial a cell phone telephone number, it nevertheless did so," wrote Judge Patricia K. Norris.Bill Gwatney, chairman of the Democratic Party of Arkansas, died this afternoon at 3:59 pm CDT (UTC-5) after having been shot earlier this morning."He [the gunman] came in and went into this office and started shooting," said police Lt. Terry Hastings, speaking to reporters outside the party headquarters.The suspect is Tim Johnson, a white male, described by Gwatney's secretary as wearing "khaki pants, white shirt, silver-gray hair, late 40s." He reportedly walked into the party headquarters facilities in Little Rock, Arkansas, conversed with the Chairman's secretary, refused her offer of bumper stickers, and then walked past her saying he had to see the Chairman.After the shooting, Johnson got into his blue Chevrolet pickup truck and led police on a 25-mile chase. The end result was the shooting of the suspect, who was airlifted to a hospital and eventually died of his wounds.According to The New York Times, Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton issued a joint statement saying, "We are stunned and shaken by today's shooting at the Arkansas Democratic Party where our good friend and fellow Democrat Bill Gwatney was critically wounded ... Bill is not only a strong chairman of Arkansas' Democratic Party, but he is also a cherished friend and confidante."Gwatney was also a car dealership owner and former state senator.An Arkansas judge has told the parents of two teenage girls taken from a religious compound run by Tony Alamo that the children can be returned to their parents if the parents agree to leave the compound and secure financial independence away from the controversial "Tony Alamo Christian Ministries" organization. The two girls, ages 16 and 14, were removed from the compound along with four other girls in a September 20 raid conducted by state, federal law enforcement officials and FBI. Authorities raided the compound while investigating allegations of physical and child sexual abuse.The controversial evangelist leader of the organization, Tony Alamo, 74, was himself arrested on September 25 in Flagstaff, Arizona on charges of sexually abusing children and allegedly transporting a young girl across state lines in order to commit sexual acts with her - a violation of the Mann Act. He waived extradition from Arizona to Arkansas. Alamo has previously been convicted on charges of tax evasion. He was born as Bernie Hoffmann, and started the Tony and Susan Alamo Christian Foundation in 1969 with his wife Susan.Texas Human Services caseworkers took another 20 children into custody on Tuesday in investigations into properties controlled by the organization in Fouke, Texarkana and Fort Smith, Arkansas. According to Associated Press, nine girls and 11 boys ages 1 to 17 were taken into care of the state Tuesday. The children were given health screenings by the state on Wednesday, and received mental health and education assessments. Department of Human Services spokeswoman Julie Munsell said that the children taken by the state on Tuesday had no signs of poor health, and did not need any pressing medical attention. The children were placed in foster care in Arkansas, and Miller County Circuit Judge Kirk Johnson will convene a hearing Monday to determine if these children should stay in foster care.KTBS reported that three of the boys were taken by the state from the courthouse while they were with their parents attending the hearings on the two girls taken September 20. Circuit Judge Joe Griffin gave the order authorizing seizure of the children by the state, on allegations of physical abuse and neglect. Judge Griffin's order found that there was probable cause that other children at the Tony Alamo compound properties were at risk of abuse and neglect, and may have already been abused. According to a report Thursday in the Texarkana Gazette, over one hundred children from the Tony Alamo compound that were part of a court order to be taken into state custody may be outside reach of child welfare services and unaccounted for, if they were taken over state lines. Arkansas State Police searched over 12 locations Tuesday, but no children were found at the Fort Smith location.In a hearing which concluded Friday night, Judge Jim Hudson of Miller County Circuit explained that his ruling was influenced by a recommendation from the Arkansas Department of Human Services. Human Services asserted that girls at the Fouke compound were at risk of sexual abuse, and that beatings were meted out as punishment at the compound. Human Services also alleged that one of the two girls had been a witness to abuse, and that the other was herself subjected to being beaten at the compound. Judge Hudson stated: "It seems from their recommendation that they don’t see a way that the problems with abuse and neglect could be solved within the context of that very tightly knit community." "I am not trying to infringe on their religious practices, only the practices that were found to be neglectful or abuse," said Judge Hudson after the hearing had concluded. Judge Hudson made his ruling after hearing three days of testimony regarding the allegations of child abuse at the Tony Alamo compound.The director of the Arkansas chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, Rita Sklar, stated that she did not have any objections to restrictions on religion, if the welfare of a child was involved. "It doesn’t sound problematic to keep the children away from what seems to be a very dangerous situation. You do not have a constitutional right to subject your children to sexual abuse because it’s in line with your religious beliefs," said Sklar in a statement in the Arkansas Democrat Gazette.The Texarkana Gazette reported that Tony Alamo released a statement from his jail cell regarding the testimony given this week regarding the allegations of abuse made against him. With regard to claims made by the 14-year-old girl who testified in court that Alamo molested her when she was 12-years-old and living at his house, Alamo stated: "She’s a liar right out of the pit of hell." Alamo went on to state that he was: "being found guilty without a presumption of innocence ... I have no say in what's going on. This is one-sided and I can't be heard." An arrest warrant was issued by Fort Smith police for John Erwin Kolbeck, 49, who allegedly served as an enforcer for Alamo. Kolbeck is accused of beating Alamo's followers for offenses against him and the organization, and Little Rock FBI spokesman Steve Frazier told the AP that a federal warrant for unlawful flight to avoid prosecution was drawn out in the past week for Kolbeck.According to the AP, the 14-year-old girl testified Monday that Alamo placed his hand over her mouth while she was showering, and then touched her inappropriately. He then threatened her by saying the name of his alleged enforcer Kolbeck. "He said don’t tell anybody what happened here or I’ll have John (Kolbeck) beat you and I'll take care of you. Nobody would've believed me, anyway. Everybody thinks he's a prophet here," stated the 14-year-old girl in court, reported the Arkansas Democrat Gazette.Judge Hudson stated that a review of the case is scheduled for February 14 and subsequently every 90 days thereafter in order to assess if the girls' parents are in compliance with the Judge's request. If the parents are seen to be out of compliance, the state may recommend termination of parental rights. Hearings are expected next week with regard to the status of the other four girls that were removed from the compound September 20. Tony Alamo is himself scheduled for trial on February 2.A man from Jonesborough in south County Armagh, Northern Ireland, was charged today with the murder of 29 people who died in the 1998 Omagh bombing, which injured in excess of 300 additional people.  Sean Hoey, 35, appeared at the Craigavon Magistrates Court, saying nothing.  His solicitor said his client strongly denies the charges, and that there is no evidence against him to support the charges.  Hoey, who was also charged with 23 explosives offenses and conspiracy to murder security force members, was remanded to custody in Maghaberry Prison and is scheduled to appear, via video link from prison, before the Belfast magistrates on May 31.The Seabourn Spirit, a cruise ship sailing off the coast of Somalia, narrowly escaped an attack by gunmen believed to be pirates.The pirate attack occurred on Saturday, when two boats approached the ship and began firing automatic weapons and rocket propelled grenades, injuring one crew member.The crew took evasive action and escaped safely by employing an acoustic bang which caused the gunmen to flee believing they were under fire.302 passengers and crew, mostly from the United States, Canada, and Australia, were onboard when the gunmen opened fire. The attack took place 160km (100 miles) off the Somali coastline, which has a reputation for pirate activity.Deborah Natansohn, president of the Seabourn Cruise Line told CNN Radio, "The occupants of those boats did not succeed in boarding the ship and eventually turned away ... our captain and crew did a terrific job taking responsive action."Edith Laird, from Seattle, told the BBC, "My daughter saw the pirates out our window. […] There were at least three RPG that hit the ship, one in a stateroom four doors down from our cabin."According to Mike Rogers, a passenger from Vancouver, the captain opted not to sound the alarm and instead announced the attack over the speakers, fearing the sound would drive people to the deck and place them in the line of fire.Natansohn has stated that the company will re-evaluate future trips to the area.  The Seafarers Assistance Program (SAP) is planning on highlighting the incident and its potential costs for tourism on Monday.Pirate attacks have been an increasing problem in the area, with 23 hijackings and attempted seizures recorded by the International Maritime Bureau (IMB).  Two of the attacks were on ships carrying aid for the United Nations World Food Program. One attack involved a ship carrying 935 tons of rice for Asian tsunami victims. The crew had been held for three months before being released. According to the IMB, the pirates - mostly made up of the Horn of Africa’s former navy as well as former fishermen - represent a serious threat to commercial shipping.Somalia has been a volatile area since the ousting of former dictator Mohamed Said Barre. The country has been operating without a central administration since 1991 and is now controlled by warlords.Australian media has speculated that the attack on the ship may be an act of terrorism rather than one of piracy.Armed police officers from SO19 have raided properties in the Notting Hill and North Kensington areas of London and Italian forces have arrested the fourth bombing suspect at a property in Rome, Italy. The raids were in connection with the failed bombings on July 21.Scotland Yard have announced that a number of arrests have been made, and that three of the suspected July 21 bombers are now in custody.  The most recently arrested suspects are reported to be those wanted in connection with the Oval tube and London bus bombing attempts [1].Officers in full body armour, helmets and gas masks and armed with shotguns and assault rifles were seen moving in. Small explosions were heard soon after, and CS gas and stun grenades are also believed to have been used. Police are cautioning that CS grenade launchers and explosive entries could be mistaken for shots, and have said that no shots were fired.Police at one point described the raid as entering a "challenging phase". Eyewitnesses said that the police asked one person in a building that was surrounded to give himself up. They apparently addressed the person as "Muhammad" [2].  Muktar Said Ibrahim, one of two suspects named after the failed 21 July bombing attempts, is also known as Muhammad. The other officially-named suspect has already been arrested in Birmingham.At one point the cordon around the area was expanded, cutting off TV news stations from their broadcast vehicles which were caught inside the sealed-off area.Two weeks before the failed attacks of July 21, a series of bombs on July 7 killed 56 people, including four suicide bombers.Around 10.15am UTC, armed police surrounded a Mosque in East London because of a bomb scare. A short time afterwards, this cordon was lifted.London Metropolitan Police have confirmed that armed police officers shot and killed a man at Stockwell Underground station just after 10 a.m. BST this morning. He was pronounced dead at the scene. Sir Ian Blair, the Commissioner of London Metropolitan, told a press conference this afternoon that the man was challenged by police officers (not in uniform) but refused to follow instructions. Some witnesses claim he did not appear to be carrying any arms, but wore a heavy coat that may have concealed a weapon. One passenger, Anthony Larkin, said the man appeared to be wearing a “bomb belt”. Mark Whitby, apparently the closest eye witness said; "He half-tripped, was half-pushed to the floor. The policeman nearest to me had the black automatic pistol in his left hand, he held it down to the guy and unloaded five shots into him."Police have revealed that the shooting was connected with yesterday's attempted attacks, but but have not confirmed him to be one of the four bombing suspects.  Police sources have indicated that the man who was shot had been followed covertly, and after he was confronted he ran off and was followed on foot by up to twenty police from street level into the Underground station. London Underground suspended some services on the Victoria and Northern lines, citing a request by the police. The Northern line was then completely suspended for a short time mid-afternoon after a security alert at Mornington Crescent Station.The London Ambulance Service have dispatched ambulances and the air ambulance to the scene. The Metropolitan Police have cordoned off a 200 metre perimeter around the station.Armed robbers stole around 60 valuable statuettes from a museum in Olympia, Greece this morning. A state television channel reported that the Greek culture minister Pavlos Geroulanos tendered his resignation upon hearing of the robbery."We must wait and see what the local archaeology supervisor will say, but the items were of incalculable value," local mayor Thymios Kotzias said. The value of the articles hasn't been calculated yet.The masked robbers initially demanded a female employee to hand over the articles. When she refused, they tied her up and snatched the articles through the glass planes themselves.This is the second major robbery in the country recently. Paintings by Pablo Picasso, Piet Mondrian and others were stolen from Athens National Museum in January. Olympia is the place where the first Olympic Games were held.Armed Fijian soldiers took control of the streets of Suva, Fiji just before dawnIn a show of force, the troops fired a mortar into the harbour and over Nukulau Island, where George Speight, leader of the Fiji Coup of 2000, is currently serving a term of life imprisonment for his role in the overthrow of the constitutional government. Most of the mortar rounds fell into the ocean.Soldiers, travelling in a convoy of trucks, set up barricades on key roads that led into the central business district of Suva while others patrolled the city. Major Neumi Leweni, a military spokesman, said that the activity is not a military coup in disguise. "The exercise is in anticipation of any foreign intervention and the [Fiji military] is taking all precautionary measures." He pointed out to sea where an Australian black hawk helicopter had crashed and where three Australian warships were moored. Australian officials said the ships were there in case Australian citizens needed to be evacuated.The black hawk helicopter that had crashed was attempting to land on the HMAS Kanimbla, and its passengers were Special Air Service soldiers. Referring to the crash, Major Leweni said: "[It] just confirms that there are other forces out there and that is exactly why we are doing this exercise".Talks in New Zealand between Laisenia Qarase, Prime Minister of Fiji, and , military commander Commodore Frank Bainimarama concluded without an agreement. Winston Peters, foreign minister for New Zealand, said the talks were "lengthy, serious and meaningful", but ultimately unsuccessful. Mr. Qarase said the three hour talks were not long enough to get to any conclusion, "...it was a good start and there is need for further consultations on some of the issues." Mr Qarase arrived at Nadi via a Royal New Zealand Air Force plane and then flew on an Air Chatham Islands plan to Suva. He was met by questioning media. Mr Qarase remained quiet. Commodore Bainimarama also said nothing to the awaiting media when he arrived in Fiji on a commercial flight.Mr Qarase has requested that all regional foreign ministers come to a meeting being held in Sydney, Australia tomorrow that is related to the coup threats.Countries that are part of the Pacific Forum are able to help other member countries, if the government asks for help.Ambassadors from the United States of America, Australia and Britain have all met with Fijian military officers to seek insurances that there wasn't going to be a coup. Major Lewini responded angrily, "[It is] inappropriate for a civilian diplomat to visit a military camp and seek to speak directly to officers,"  he said."I'm not aware anyone's threatening foreign intervention. I can assure you New Zealand isn't," Helen Clark, Helen Clark, Prime Minister of New Zealand, said.At the same time, Andrew Hughes, police commissioner for Fiji, is currently on leave in Brisbane following threats. Moses Driver will now act as the police commissioner. The military has said they will "clean up" the government if the armed forces do not get three controversial bills passed and all investigations into senior military officers are dropped.The military has said that they do not need police permission to conduct such exercises.Hrant Dink, Arat Dink, Serkis Seropyan and Aydın Engin, all employees of Agos, an Armenian newspaper published in İstanbul, have each been charged with "attempting to affect legal proceedings" by the Sisli 2nd First Instance Court for their alleged attempts to tamper with Hrant Dink's trial earlier this year.  The four journalists will be tried under the 288th article of the Turkish Penal Code, and face a possible 6 months to 3 years in jail if found guilty.In his indictment, the public prosecutor claimed that the defendants attempted to influence the result of Hrant Dink's earlier trial by way of articles published in Agos, of which Dink is the editor.  In response to the indictment, Hrant Dink said, "It is impossible for a man not to be puzzled.  I am the defendant at the same time.  It is a basic right for a defendant to attempt to affect the legal proceedings.  If a defendant is not trying to affect the legal proceedings, then he would do this?  We would go, face the court and see the results."Hrant Dink was found guilty in October of insulting Turkey's national identity, a conviction for which he received a suspended sentence of 6 months imprisonment.  He claims he will appeal this decision.In a recent press conference by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of China, Armorize Technologies disclosed details on web-phishing crimes related to the "Edison Chen photo scandal". The scandal which has become a hot topic in the Chinese-language world - especially in Hong Kong - has seen some governments discipline the public for distributing these related photos.According to Armorize Technologies, organized crime gangs have distributed malicious code recently masquerading as "Edison's photos" through phishing, e-mail hacking, and peer-to-peer file transfer. Even though Google will attempt to tag these phishing sites as dangerous to a user's computer, there are many instances where the malicious code will not be found by anti-virus software such as Norton AntiVirus, Kaspersky Anti-Virus, Trend Micro Internet Security, and NOD32.Also in this conference, Armorize described their HackAlert service:Edison Chen had claimed to quit the entertainment industry in Hong Kong, but the (photo) scandal shows yet another information security crisis on the World Wide Web that includes Taiwan.An individual has been arrested after Paweł Adamowicz, mayor of the Polish city of Gdańsk, was stabbed last night whilst on stage at a fundraising event. He died today.Reports on the implement used vary between a knife and a "sharp tool". The attacker is reported to have jumped on stage during the Great Orchestra of Christmas Charity and claimed he was wrongfully imprisoned under Adamowicz's former party Civic Platform's time in government. Adamowicz was an early supporter of democracy, and has been mayor since 1998.Ex-Prime Minister Donald Tusk, the current President of the European Council, wrote "Let's all pray for Mayor Adamowicz. Paweł, we are with you." Tusk, a founding Civic Platform member, is from Gdańsk. Interior Minister Joachim Brudziński called the stabbing "an act of inexplicable barbarity." He said "I can’t find the words, an explanation, for this kind of act. Especially since the finale of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Charity has for the last 27 years always been associated with good, with something joyful, positive." The fundraiser was intending this year to obtain money for children's hospitals to buy equipment. It raises money annually to assist the nation's medical services.Brudziński said Adamowicz required resuscitation, and was in a "serious" condition; TVN24 reported he received surgery. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki tweeted "We are with Mayor Adamowicz in our thoughts and prayers." President Andrzej Duda remarked, "Today I am unconditionally with him and his loved ones, just as I hope all of us compatriots are. I pray for his return to health and full strength."Duda told local media Adamowicz's heart was restarted by doctors "and there is hope, but his condition is very difficult." Police spokesman Mariusz Ciarka said a press badge was used by the assailant, reported by The Guardian as convicted of assaults and by Associated Press of bank robberies, to gain entry. The detained suspect's identity is restricted to 'Stefan W' owing to Polish privacy legislation.Adamowicz was taken to the Medical University of Gdańsk, where Dr. Tomasz Stefaniak was met with applause early today upon announcing to journalists Adamowicz remained alive. "The next hours will decide everything," Stefaniak said. Politicians and the Archbishop of Gdańsk, Sławoj Leszek Głódź, were reported by local media to have visited the hospital while Adamowicz received emergency surgery.Adamowicz subsequently was announced to have died. Health Minister Łukasz Szumowski said "We couldn’t win," and the city flag is at half-mast. Gdańsk residents donated blood by the hundreds today in a bid to assist. Vigils nationwide this evening were attended by thousands.Adamowicz, 53, has supported LGBT rights and and the inclusion of minority groups. He recently condemned anti-semitism after vandalism against a synagogue in the city. Adamowicz was at the event after collecting money for the organisation in Gdańsk's streets alongside volunteers nationwide.A potential charge of murder against Stefan W carries a possible life sentence. Prosecutor Krzysztof Sierak told reporters today psychiatric assessments will be carried out to confirm if Stefan W is fit for trial.Chicago, Illinois police arrested William Balfour, the estranged brother-in-law of Oscar-winning American actress and singer Jennifer Hudson, on Monday, multiple media outlets reported. Balfour is expected to be charged with three counts of murder for the slayings of three of Hudson's relatives in October."We have obtained an arrest warrant for William Balfour. He was released to Chicago detectives," Chicago Police Department spokeswoman Monique Bond told Reuters.Hudson's mother, Darnell Donerson, 57, and brother, Jason Hudson, 29 were found dead in Donerson's home on October 24 and the body of Hudson's 7-year-old nephew, Julian King was found four days later in a stolen SUV. A handgun police say is tied to the case was found nearby, but Reuters reports that Bond did not comment on any evidence in the case.The Associated Press reports that police took Balfour into custody on Oct. 24 and held him for 48 before the Illinois Department of Corrections took possession of him on an alleged parole violation. Balfour previously served nearly seven years for a 1999 conviction attempted murder, vehicular hijacking, and possessing a stolen vehicle. CNN reports he was out of jail on parole at the time of the shootings.Balfour's mother, Michelle Davis-Balfour, spoke to the press Monday night, saying she thought that there was no case against her son."If they found gun powder on his hands, you got a case; if they found a gun on him, he had a case; if they found a fingerprint on the truck that he did this, you got a case; but they don't have nothing," Davis-Balfour said, according to the Associated Press. She also said: "My son did not do this. I am sick of this. They need to focus on somebody else."Davis-Balfour also accused at least one witness of lying while providing an alibi for his son, saying he was with one of three girls friends when the killings happened."He was with Diana that night and with Kate in the morning," she said, according to CNN.Attorney for Balfour, Josh Kutnick, told CNN that his client is innocent. "He believes when the evidence comes out, he will be found not guilty," Kutnick told CNN.Hudson became famous in 2004 when she was one of the finalists on the third season of the American hit television show American Idol. She later won multiple awards for her role in the 2006 motion picture Dreamgirls.An arrest has been made in the almost 10-year-old murder of JonBenét Ramsey, according to a law enforcement official. The suspect is 41-year-old John Mark Karr, a former second grade teacher.  Karr was detained in Bangkok, Thailand at the request of the U.S. government. The suspect faces charges in Colorado. Local authorities in Boulder, Colorado, where the suspect will face a murder charge, declined to comment.9News, a Denver television station, claimed that the suspect had confessed to elements of the crime that were not public.CBS News is reporting that according to their sources the suspect is John Mark Karr, a 41-year-old American man and second-grade schoolteacher, who will be brought back to the United States this weekend.JonBenét's father, John Ramsey, told 9News that he has been notified of the arrest. Asked if he knew Karr, Ramsey replied, "To the best of my knowledge, no," the station's Web site reported.According to CBC, John Ramsey released the following statement to the media:I want to have only very limited comment on today's arrest because I feel it is extremely important to not only let the justice system operate to its conclusion in an orderly manner, but also to avoid feeding the type of media speculation that my wife and I were subjected to for so many years. I do want to say, however, that the investigation of the individual arrested today in connection with JonBenét's death was discussed with Patsy and me by the Boulder district attorney's office prior to Patsy's death in June. So Patsy was aware that authorities were close to making an arrest in the case and had she lived to see this day, would no doubt have been as pleased as I am with today's development almost 10 years after our daughter's murder. Words cannot adequately express my gratitude for the efforts of Boulder district attorney Mary Lacy and the members of her investigative team.On December 26, 1996, 6-year-old JonBenét Ramsey, a child beauty pageant queen, was found murdered in the basement of her parents' home in Boulder, Colorado, United States, eight hours after being reported missing. The case drew national attention when no suspect was charged and suspicions turned to possible family involvement.Port Authority police on Friday arrested a New Jersey man in connection with a security breach at Newark Liberty International Airport last Sunday that contributed to widespread delays on all major flights to and from the airport. According to a statement released by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Haisong Jiang, aged 28, of Piscataway, New Jersey was arrested and charged with a single count of defiant trespassing. No further details about the circumstances of Mr. Jiang’s arrest and the overall status of the ongoing investigation have yet been provided. This Thursday, at the behest of U.S. Senator Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) released a surveillance video of what exactly had transpired. According to the tapes, a man—allegedly Mr. Jiang—wearing a light-colored jacket stood inside a rope barrier, and a guard approached him apparently telling him to stay within said security cordon.However, less than a minute later, the very same guard is allegedly shown leaving his assigned post, and disappearing into the sea of passengers. Following this, the man is accused of having slipped undetected underneath the barrier. He then is said to have met a departing woman, who appeared to have already passed through security. He then apparently proceeded to kiss her, before the two walked off holding hands. A bystander waiting for an arriving family member noticed the breach and told the guard. TSA officials then discovered that security cameras at the checkpoint were not fully operational, and consequently had not recorded what had occurred. As a result, investigators were forced to consult backup cameras maintained by Continental Airlines.In an address to the media, Senator Lautenberg heavily praised the joint investigative team for their efforts. “With this arrest, law enforcement will be able to take a closer look into how and why this incident occurred and make sure that it never happens again.”The guard in question is now on administrative leave, and could face possible disciplinary charges.Police in Kenya have arrested a man thought to be the organiser of an attack by up to 30 men armed with clubs and spears that killed internationally renowned Scottish gemstone expert Campbell Bridges.The 71-year-old was ambushed last week near Voi where he owns several mines. The attack left two security guards badly injured. Bridges' family had received death threats for years over a dispute over access to his gemstone mines.Regional police chief Herbert Khaemba anounced today: "The suspect believed to be the main organiser of the brutal murder was arrested by the police at the Kenyan border town of Taveta in hiding. The police are still pursuing other suspects who were armed with crude weapons during the attack."The arrested man is reported to be the chairman of a group of local small-scale miners. He is thought to have been intending to flee to neighbouring Tanzania. The area's minerals have been disputed ever since Bridges discovered the locally unique stone Tsavorite in the 1960s.British police have arrested a person in West Yorkshire in connection with the London bombings. The man will be transferred to London for questioning. Six houses were raided in Leeds and Luton.The police conducted controlled explosions to gain access to a house in Leeds, and three controlled explosions were made on a car in Luton Station's carpark.More than 600 people were evacuated near the six houses raided in Leeds and the police has seized either explosives or devices used to make bombs.Inspector Miles Himsworth said that the raids were conducted by the Metropolitan Police Anti-Terrorist department with help from the Yorkshire Police and the Army Bomb Disposal Unit. He also said that the police were conducting a "careful and meticulous search".Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Ian Blair has confirmed that the operation "is directly connected to the outrages on Thursday". He added that "London, as well as New York" continue to be "major terrorist targets".American actor Richard Gere, 51, kissed Indian actress Shilpa Shetty, 31, on the cheek several times during an AIDS awareness event in Delhi, India.  A court has issued an arrest warrant for both Gere and Shetty for public obscenity.Gere, who starred in an American remake of the original Japanese version Shall We Dance, was doing a ballroom dancing act with Shetty."He especially told me to tell the media that he didn't want to hurt any Indian sensibilities," Shetty said.The act came to issue when a local lawyer complained to a court in Jaipur, Rajasthan. It is being called "an obscene act" by the court in Jaipur, Rajasthan. In India, showing affection in public is frowned upon. People in India protested against the act saying it went against their culture.Gere appeared in an interview with Jon Stewart on The Daily Show last night. "Me kissing the girl on the cheek was nothing," he said. "To be honest, this recent media storm has taken me by complete surprise. End the circus around this episode."They are scheduled to appear in court on May 5. If convicted, Gere could be fined or sent to jail for three months.An arrest warrant was issued on Wednesday for former U.S. House Majority Leader Tom DeLay. Bail was set at US$10,000 ahead of his scheduled court appearance in Austin, Texas for two separate charges of money laundering and conspiracy. The warrant is being treated as a procedural formality of law, and court officials said DeLay was expected to go to Fort Bend County Jail in his district near Houston for booking, but this has not yet been confirmed. The warrant lists two felony charges, conspiracy and money laundering in a campaign finance scheme tied to his political action committee, Texans for a Republican Majority. Texas law forbids the use of corporate money in political campaigns. He is scheduled to make his first court appearance on Friday before state District Judge Bob Perkins.DeLay has denied any wrongdoing. He is accused of laundering $190,000 in corporate campaign contributions through the Republican National Committee for distribution to Republican candidates for the Texas Legislature in 2002. The money helped the Repbulicans to take control of the Texas Legislature, which then redistricted congressional voting boundaries. As a result this lead to an expanded majority of the house Republicans.In response to questions DeLay's lawyer Dick DeGuerin characterized the warrant as "a matter of routine" and assured that "bond will be posted". The warrant followed a series of grand jury indictments handed down in late September and early October and prompted DeLay to step down temporarily as house majority leader.Ten men and three women allegedly linked to the CIA have been ordered arrested by an Italian judge for allegedly kidnapping a terrorism suspect in Italy and then secretly taking him to Egypt where he said he was tortured. The Italian prosecutors office confirmed the arrest warrants relating to the abduction of imam Hassan Mustafa Osama Nasr on Feb. 17, 2003. An unnamed judicial source said; "In the judge's order, it (the abduction) is clearly attributed to the CIA."The CIA's response to the allegation was: "We're not commenting. We're saying: if we have anything to say, we'll get back to you."Human rights groups have criticised the CIA in the past for the practise known as extraordinary rendition. According to these groups, it involves moving suspects from the country where they are captured to a third country where torture is routinely used during interrogations. A number of ex-detainees have alleged that they were tortured in countries such as Egypt and Syria after being captured by the CIA. Maher Arar, a Candadian citizen, sued the US Government earlier this year, claiming that he was sent to Syria, his country of birth, and tortured for a number of months before the Canadian government obtained his release. The suit was dismissed under the rarely used State Secrets Privilege.In January President Bush said in an interview with the New York Times that, "torture is never acceptable, nor do we hand over people to countries that do torture."Further arrests and resignations have occurred related to the News International phone hacking scandal.  Rebekah Brooks, former executive with Rupert Murdoch's British newspaper division of News Corporation, was arrested Sunday and released on bail 12 hours later. Her arrest came amid allegations that the News of the World illegally hacked into 4,000 individual cell phones. Brooks resigned from her position on Friday. Hers was the tenth arrest connected to the scandal.The scandal has now caused two high profile resignations at the Metropolitan Police (Scotland Yard). On Sunday  Sir Paul Stephenson, commissioner  of Metropolitan Police Service, resigned from his post, taking responsibility for the agency's failure to investigate all alleged criminal acts by reporters of News of the World and for the implied close relationship between the police and Murdoch's papers. The investigation of the complaints of phone hacking made by the Royal Family in 2006 was never fully pursued.  He was also criticized for hiring former deputy editor of the NotW Neil Wallis as a media consultant. Wallis was arrested last week for his part in the scandal.Assistant commissioner John Yates' resignation followed Stephenson's, after it emerged he had inappropriately fostered the hiring of the daughter of his friend Wallis, and failed to pursue an investigation of the NotW in 2009. Yates labelled this action "a pretty crap one".Last night, it was reported that Sean Hoare, a whistleblower who  worked for former NotW editor Andy Coulson and was the first to allege a high ranking-editor had known about phone hacking at the NotW, was found dead at his home. Police say the death is not categorized as "suspicious" although it is unexplained. The BBC reported that Hoare had suffered from an unspecified illness. He was let go from NotW in 2005  for problems related to substance abuse.The revelations are the latest in a growing scandal that has so far led to the resignations of a number of News Corporation executives, including Les Hinton, the publisher of the US newspaper The Wall Street Journal, on Friday. The scandal has also led Murdoch to close the NotW and drop his bid to take full control of broadcaster BSkyB. Pressure grew on Murdoch when it was alleged journalists at the NotW had hacked into the phone of missing schoolgirl Milly Dowler, British families of victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks and relatives of British soldiers killed in Afghanistan.David Cameron, the British prime minister, is scheduled to return from his trip to Africa two days early in order to deal with the scandal that has shaken the public's trust in the police, journalists and politicians. Cameron has been under pressure to apologise for his appointment of Coulson—who was arrested two weeks ago—as a media adviser after his resignation as editor of the NotW. Cameron has also been criticized for taking a trip to Africa at this time; a Conservative party member said it seemed as if the prime minister was "fleeing the country".Rupert Murdoch and his son James, an executive in the Murdoch news empire, and Rebekah Brooks appeared before parliament on Tuesday to answer questions about their knowledge of the phone hacking issues.A ban against kite-flying during a traditional festival to welcome the onset of spring in the Punjab region of Pakistan has led to significant numbers of arrests.  Conservative figures put the number arrested following the imposition of Thursday's ban at around 500, higher figures of 1,400 are given in Australian reports which describe events following the ban as a crackdown.At issue is the use of glass coated or metal kite strings, and this leading towards serious injury or even death.  In the 2004 celebration of the Basant festival up to nine people were killed including from electrocution when using metal strings.Seventeen people have been arrested overnight in Sydney and Melbourne, in what Police have described as 'anti-terror' raids. New South Wales (NSW) and Victorian police conducted the raids, and both police chiefs have said that the action foiled a terrorist plot. New South Wales Police Commissioner Ken Moroney said that, "we have disrupted what I would regard as the final stages of a terrorist attack or the launch of a terrorist attack in Australia." The Guardian is reporting that some of those arrested in Sydney are alleged to have been stockpiling chemicals. Some of those arrested in Melbourne have appeared in court, including Abu Bakr, also known as Abdul Nacer Benbrika. Benbrika was criticised last year for comments he made in support of al-Qaeda.Yesterday, Thames Valley Police said they had arrested a second man in connection with the theft of a gold toilet. The toilet, an artwork, was stolen on Saturday from Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire, England. Another man, who was was arrested on the day of the theft, was released on bail. The toilet has not been recovered.Police arrested a 36-year-old Cheltenham man on suspicion of conspiracy to burgle. They subsequently released him pending investigation. On Saturday they arrested a 66-year-old man on suspicion of burglary, and released him on bail till October. "We are continuing to investigate this incident and have made a second arrest in connection with it. Our priority is to locate the stolen item, and I would urge anyone with any information to contact police by calling 101", said Detective Inspector Steven Jones.The toilet is an artwork entitled America made by Italian artist Maurizio Cattelan. It is a fully functioning toilet made from 18-karat gold. Dominic Hare, chief executive of the palace, placed the value of the artwork in the range of five to six million US dollars. It had been fully plumbed and installed for visitors to use at Blenheim. When it was removed by the burglars it caused flooding and water damage to the building. Police said on Monday they believe the theft involved a group of thieves and multiple vehicles."At first, when they woke me up this morning with the news, I thought it was a prank: Who's so stupid to steal a toilet?" wrote Cattelan, the artist, in an e-mail to The New York Times. "I had forgotten for a second that it was made out of gold."Back in 2017, the artwork was offered to Donald Trump, the president of the United States. Dominic Hare said the toilet represented a "comment on the American dream".Three people have been arrested over allegations that they intercepted calls made by staff in Clarence House, Prince Charles’ household. Clive Goodman, royal editor for the tabloid newspaper News of the World, is one of three men who were last night detained by police following a probe by Scotland Yard lasting several weeks. It is alleged they listened to numerous voice mail messages made by members of Britain’s royal household.All of the three men were questioned by police at Charing Cross police station in London, and police have confirmed this morning that a fifty year-old man has been released on bail. But a spokeswoman for the News International newspaper has said that Mr Goodman remains in custody with another unidentified man.Scotland Yard had reportedly been told by staff at Clarence House that something suspicious was occurring. The Royal Protection Squad was therefore told to investigate the claims, and due to potential security implications, the anti-terrorist branch is also involved in the enquiry. "Police launched an investigation after concerns were reported to the Met’s Royalty Protection Department by members of the Royal Household at Clarence House," said a statement issued by Scotland Yard last night. "It is focused on alleged repeated security breaches within telephone networks over a significant period of time and the potential impact this may have around a number of individuals."It has also emerged today that the investigation will look at whether a number of celebrities and Members of Parliament have had their phones tapped. "Police continue to work with the telephone companies concerned and continue to have their full support in attempting to identify any other person whose telephone may have been intercepted," Scotland Yard’s statement added. This is not the first time that such phone hacking allegations surrounding the Royal Family have made the headlines. In 1993, a romantic call made late at night between Prince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwell was made public, and in 1992, a tape featuring a conversation between Princess Diana and a close friend called James Gilbey was published.Filipino president Gloria Macapagal Arroyo declared a state of emergency Friday following reports from security forces on a foiled coup attempt. Arroyo's emergency powers allow arrests without warrants and the extended detention of prisoners without charges.Brigadier General Danilo Lim, the commander of the 1st Scout Ranger Regiment, an elite military unit, is being held following accusations that he intended to join his troops with anti-Arroyo protestors. The troops were reportedly planning to inform protesters that the soldiers were no longer supporting Arroyo hoping that this news would foment an uprising against the president.Arroyo has forbidden protest rallies, but more than a thousand Filipinos attended rallies anyway (Bloomberg.com says "thousands of Filipinos"), and police broke up a couple of rallies on Edsa, the main street of Manila, as they were heading downtown (to Makati), with shields and nightsticks. The Filipino peso dropped 1.1% vs. the US dollar, its biggest decline since 2002. [1]The crisis comes during the weekend when the country is recognizing the 20th anniversary of the "People Power" revolution that ousted dictator Ferdinand Marcos, who fled and stayed in exile in the United States.This is not the first time Ms. Arroyo's regime has survived attempts at deletion. At the beginning of her presidency, supporters of the ousted President Estrada stormed Malacanang and demanded Arroyo's resignation. Later, in 2003, 300 soldiers took over a hotel in Manila in another bid to topple Arroyo. People have alleged that the Arroyo administration engaged in corruption and failed to keep the economy stable. Arroyo won the 2004 election, but some people accused her of doing so by cheating. Those allegations led to an attempt to impeach Arroyo in September 2005, which failed. [2]Ernest Krajniak from Chilton, Wisconsin in the United States has been charged with arson after a lit cigarette ignited gasoline soaked clothes, setting his apartment ablaze.On Friday April 3, Krajniak, 47, cleaned his entire apartment with about five gallons of gasoline, wiping everything down with the soaked clothes. After he was finished, he piled the soaked clothes in the center of his bedroom, lit a cigarette and then threw what was left of the still lit cigarette, into the pile.Krajniak never called the fire department and never pulled the alarm. Instead he yelled 'fire' a few times then walked to the police station where an ambulance took him to a local hospital for the treatment of minor burns. The fire department later arrived to put out the blaze and his apartment was extensively smoke damaged. 11 other apartments were also damaged, leaving the occupants without a place to stay for at least a week."I should have never used that," said Krajniak during a court appearance on Monday. He admitted to knowing that gasoline was highly flammable. He was arrested and his bond has been set a US$2,500. Krajniak's next court appearance is scheduled for Monday, April 13. According to WISinfo.com, Krajniak has no prior criminal record.The careless smoking of cigarettes has been blamed for thousands of fires across the U.S.  In January 2008, an unnamed elderly woman in Buffalo, New York was receiving oxygen for medical problems in her home and lit a cigarette and began to smoke it.  The oxygen coming from her mask then facilitated the ignition of her clothing, setting her on fire.In the U.S. in 2002, only 4% of all residential fires were reportedly caused by smoking materials. These fires, however, were responsible for 19% of residential fire fatalities and 9% of injuries. The fatality rate due to smoking is nearly four times higher than the overall residential fire rate; injuries are more than twice as likely. Forty percent of all smoking fires start in the bedroom or living room/family room; in 35% of these fires, bedding or upholstered furniture are the items first ignited.Around 8:50 p.m. Korean Standard Time (11:50 UTC) on Sunday, a fire broke out at Sungnyemun Gate (more commonly referred to as Namdaemun Gate), one of the most iconic South Korean landmarks, located in the center of Seoul.Approximately 30 firetrucks and 90 firefighters were sent to the site and were able to bring the initial blaze under control by around 10:30 p.m. However, around 10:40 p.m., the fire rekindled at the second floor of the gate, as firefighters were in the process of extinguishing embers. By 11:00 p.m. the fire had spread over to the roof of the gate. The Korean Fire Department reports that the second blaze had started as the Department was seeking permission from the Korean Cultural Heritage Administration to dismantle parts of the gate in order to stop any possible further fires from spreading. At about 12:40 a.m. of the 11th, the second floor had collapsed, and the fire was spreading to the first floor; at 1:50 a.m. the first floor collapsed.Officials have yet to reach a conclusion on the origin of fire, and have presented three possibilities; arson, electric faults or accidental origins.As the interior of the second floor of the Gate is off-limits to civilians, the Korean Fire Department initially eliminated the possibility of arson, and stated that an electric short or spark from the electric lighting could have been the cause. This possibility was later discarded as a firefighter reported, after examination, that there was no electric wiring on the second floor, as Korean Cultural Heritage Administration regulations prohibit it.Three eye-witnesses have submitted testimonies. A taxi driver has reported seeing a man in his fifties climb up the staircase carrying a shopping bag, shortly after seeing sparks. Police have stated that the driver's testimony differs in several crucial factors from the other two witnesses. Firefighters have reported finding two cigarette lighters on the second floor, inceasing the possibility of arson as the cause.Police have been unable to obtain evidence from the four closed circuit televisions(CCTVs) installed around the gate.Officials of the Korean Cultural Heritage Administration have stated that restoration will take two to three years and will cost 20 billion won, equivalent of 21 million USD. Officials report that no sprinklers or fire alarms were installed inside the gate, and only eight fire extinguishers were placed on both the first and second floor.Namdaemun, built during the Joseon Dynasty, is the oldest wooden structure in Seoul and was entitled 'National Treasure No. 1' in 1962 after restoration.In recent years, arsons started by evangelical Christians have damaged many Buddhist temples and Korean momuments.The arsonist responsible for setting fire to the historic Sungnyemun gate (more commonly referred to as Namdaemun gate) in Seoul, South Korea in February has been sentenced to ten years' imprisonment. The 600-year-old landmark was considred one of the nation's greatest and most iconic, with some sources describing it as the single most important one in the country.The 69-year-old male defendant has a previous conviction from two years ago for attempting to torch the Changgyeong palace, for which he received a suspended prison sentence and was fined. It is understood he destroyed the Namdaemun gate and attacked the palace over an unconnected land ownership dispute which had angered him. He felt that the compulsory purchase of his home a decade ago had been inadequatly compensated for by the state.After the fire, residents left flowers at the scene and wrote grieving notes.Chae Jong-Gi, who admitted the crime, was told of the seriousness of the offence in a statement by the Seoul district court. "A heavy sentence is inevitable as the accused inflicted unbearable agony on the people and damaged national pride... (The monument was) the treasure among all treasures which had survived all kinds of historic disasters. Even if restored, the gate's originality will never return. Therefore, the nature and consequences of this crime are very serious," said the statement.The man is thought to have selected the gate as a target due to lax security measures. In the fire's aftermath, officials have been criticised over this and concerns that firefighting efforts were ineffective, and the Cultural Heritage Administration's chief resigned to show he accepted responsibility for the blaze.The two storey gate in pagoda style was constructed in 1398 and despite a 1447 rebuild and multiple renovations still contained original timbers prior to the destruction in the fire. Only the stone base survived.According to the Cultural Heritage Administration, a reconstruction effort will take two to three years and cost 20 billion won (US$21 million).On Monday, the person responsible for changing the Hollywood sign in California to read "Hollyweed" as a new year's prank turned himself in to local authorities. 30-year-old artist Zachary Cole Fernandez surrendered himself, the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) said.According to LAPD, Fernandez went to the police station accompanied by his lawyer, where he confessed to have changed the sign and was bailed out shortly thereafter for US$1000. LAPD charged Fernandez with trespassing; earlier reports indicated vandalism charges were ruled out as he used black and white tarps to alter the letter "O" to read lowercase "e". The sign was not physically damaged. A court hearing is scheduled for February 15. Fernandez said this act was an art project, and claimed he faces up to six months in prison if convicted. It took Fernandez two hours to alter the sign. Regarding conviction, he said, "I'm a person of integrity. If I do something wrong, I will own up to it."Exactly 41 years ago, on the same date in 1976, then-university student Daniel Finegood modified the sign to read "Hollyweed" for an art class assignment. Finegood returned to change the sign again in 1990, spelling out "Oil War" to protest against the First Persian Gulf War. Fernandez, on Tuesday, said his act was to "bring light and positivity and happiness". He said he was inspired by Finegood's modification to the sign.City Councilman David Ryu said in a statement. "Pranks of this nature deplete the resources of our valuable public safety personnel".The term "weed" is an English slang term for cannabis, a banned drug in many countries. On November 9, a ballot for legalising recreational use of cannabis in California for the age group of 21 and above was passed. The law legalising recreational cannabis is due to come into effect in 2018.Earlier today in front of the office of Italy's prime minister in Rome, shots were fired. According to Reuters, a witness reported around eight shots fired. This happened the same day the new Italian government is being sworn in.Reuters is also reporting at least two policemen were shot.  Reportedly the gunman has been arrested.The process of selecting a new government took two months, with Democratic Party member Enrico Letta becoming the Prime Minister today.  The Democratic Party joined with former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's People of Freedom Party to form a coalition government. Letta was at the Quirinal Palace, less than a kilometer away, at the time of the shooting for his inauguration.According to the United States Department of Homeland Security on Monday, Puerto Rico's exemption from the Jones Act, which temporarily lifted the rule requiring that only U.S.-owned ships might carry goods between U.S. ports, was allowed to expire on Sunday rather than being renewed.  The island commonwealth had been given a temporary exemption from this law to allow foreign ships to aid the delivery of relief supplies after Hurricane Maria, which struck Puerto Rico last month.  Puerto Ricans and lawmakers had asked for an extension of the waiver in light of the island's current difficulties."We believe that extending the waiver is unnecessary to support the humanitarian relief efforts on the island[...] There is an ample supply of Jones Act-qualified vessels to ensure that cargo is able to reach Puerto Rico," reads a statement from Homeland Security Press Secretary David Lapan.The Jones Act of 1920 requires that all ships carrying cargo directly from one U.S. port to another must be built, operated and owned by U.S. personnel.  Puerto Rico, a U.S. commonwealth, falls under its jurisdiction.  President Donald Trump issued a temporary waiver of this requirement for Puerto Rico on September 28 to help the relief effort.  However, there were also concerns about supplies sitting idle in ports for lack of organized distribution and truck drivers to take them where they were needed. Some foreign ships may take until October 18 to complete deliveries.Republicans Marco Rubio and John McCain were among those in the U.S. Congress who had urged President Trump to issue the waiver, though McCain supported making the exemption permanent: "Now that the temporary Jones Act waiver for Puerto Rico has expired, it is more important than ever for Congress to pass my bill to permanently exempt Puerto Rico from this archaic and burdensome law," he told the Huffington Post. "Until we provide Puerto Rico with long-term relief, the Jones Act will continue to hinder much-needed efforts to help the people of Puerto Rico recover and rebuild from Hurricane Maria."In September, Puerto Rico was nicked by the same Hurricane Irma that left Florida in disarray but then pummeled head-on by Hurricane Maria.  The crisis displaced thousands of people and led to extraordinary rainfall and flash flood scares after a large crack appeared in the Guajataca Dam.  According to Governor Ricardo Rosselló, 85% of residents remain without electricity, and many also still lack access to running water.Puerto Rico was colonized by Spain and came under U.S. control in the Spanish-American War in 1898, along with Guam and the Philippines. Every person born in Puerto Rico is a United States citizen by birth.  Puerto Rican residents do not participate in national elections, hold no seats in the electoral college, and have a non-voting representative in the U.S. congress. Mostly, they are exempt from federal income tax but not other federal taxes.Every few years, the Puerto Ricans hold a referendum to determine whether they wish to remain a commonwealth, seek U.S. statehood, or seek independence in some form.  In June, 97% of voters selected the second option, though turnout was low, and Congress is not legally required to obey their wishes.Controversy has arisen over the reported presence of blue asbestos on the MV Freewinds, a cruise ship owned by the Church of Scientology. According to the Saint Martin newspaper The Daily Herald and the shipping news journal Lloyd's List, the Freewinds was sealed in April and local public health officials on the Caribbean island of Curaçao where the ship is docked began an investigation into the presence of asbestos dust on the ship. Former Scientologist Lawrence Woodcraft supervised work on the ship in 1987, and attested to the presence of blue asbestos on the Freewinds in an affidavit posted to the Internet in 2001. Woodcraft, a licensed architect by profession, gave a statement to Wikinews and commented on the recent events.According to The Daily Herald, the Freewinds was in the process of being renovated by the Curaçao Drydock Company. The article states that samples taken from paneling in the ship were sent to the Netherlands, where an analysis revealed that they "contained significant levels of blue asbestos". An employee of the Curaçao Drydock Company told Radar Online in an April 30 article that the Freewinds has been docked and sealed, and confirmed that an article about asbestos ran in the local paper. Lloyd's List reported that work on the interior of the Freewinds was suspended on April 27 after health inspectors found traces of blue asbestos on the ship. According to Lloyd's List, Frank Esser, Curaçao Drydock Company's interim director, joined Curaçao's head of the department of labor affairs Christiene van der Biezen along with the head of the local health department Tico Ras and two inspectors in an April 25 inspection of the ship. "We are sending someone so that they can tell us what happened, where it came from, since when it has been there," said Panama Maritime Authority's director of merchant marine Alfonso Castillero in a statement to Lloyd's List.The Church of Scientology purchased the ship, then known as the Bohème, in 1987, through an organization called Flag Ship Trust. After being renovated and refitted, it was put into service in June 1988. The ship is used by the Church of Scientology for advanced Scientology training in "Operating Thetan" levels, as well as for spiritual retreats for its members. Curaçao has been the ship's homeport since it was purchased by the Church of Scientology. According to his 2001 statement, Lawrence Woodcraft had been an architect in London, England since 1975, and joined Scientology's elite "Sea Organization" (Sea Org) in 1986. He wrote that he was asked by the Sea Org to work on the Freewinds in 1987, and during his work on the ship "noticed a powdery blue fibrous substance approximately 1 ½" thick between the paint and the steel wall," which he believed to be asbestos. He also discovered what he thought was blue asbestos in other parts of the ship, and reported his findings to Church of Scientology executives. Woodcraft discussed his experiences in a 2001 interview published online by the Lisa McPherson Trust, a now-defunct organization which was critical of the Church of Scientology.Church of Scientology spokeswoman Karin Pouw responded to Radar Online about the asbestos reports, in an email published in an article in Radar on May 1. "The Freewinds regularly inspects the air quality on board and always meets or exceeds US standards," said Pouw. She stated that two inspections performed in April "confirmed that the air quality is safe," and asserted that the inspections revealed the Freewinds satisfies standards set by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the U.S. Clean Air Act. Pouw told Radar that "The Freewinds will be completing its refit on schedule." The Church of Scientology-affiliated organization Citizens Commission on Human Rights (CCHR) had been planning a cruise aboard the Freewinds scheduled for May 8, but according to Radar an individual who called the booking number for the cruise received a message that the cruise had been delayed due to ongoing work on the ship. Citing an article in the Netherlands Antilles newspaper Amigoe, Radar reported on May 6 that a team from the United States and supervised by an independent bureau from the Netherlands traveled to Curaçao in order to remove asbestos from the Freewinds. "I stand by everything I wrote in my 2001 affidavit," said Lawrence Woodcraft in an exclusive statement given to Wikinews. Woodcraft went on to state: "I would also comment that if the Church of Scientology claims to have removed the blue asbestos, I just don't see how, it's everywhere. You would first have to remove all the pipes, plumbing, a/c ducts, electrical wiring etc. etc. just a maze of stuff. Also panelling as well, basically strip the ship back to a steel hull. Also blue asbestos is sprayed onto the outer walls and then covered in paint. It's in every nook and cranny."Many Scientologist celebrities have spent time aboard the Freewinds, including Tom Cruise, Katie Holmes, John Travolta, Kelly Preston, Chick Corea, Lisa Marie Presley, Catherine Bell, Kate Ceberano, and Juliette Lewis. Now magazine reported that Tom Cruise has been urged to seek medical attention regarding potential asbestos exposure, however a representative for Cruise stated he has "absolutely no knowledge" of the recent asbestos controversy. Cruise, Holmes, Travolta and Preston have celebrated birthdays and other events on the Freewinds.In a May 15 statement to the United Kingdom daily newspaper Metro, a representative for the Church of Scientology said that "There is not now and never has been a situation of asbestos exposure on the Freewinds." The Asbestos and Mesothelioma Center notes that agencies have recommended anyone who has spent time on the Freewinds consult with their physician to determine if possible asbestos exposure may have affected their health.Raw blue asbestos is the most hazardous form of asbestos, and has been banned in the United Kingdom since 1970. Blue asbestos fibers are very narrow and thus easily inhaled, and are a major cause of mesothelioma. Mesothelioma is a form of cancer which can develop in the lining of the lungs and chest cavity, the lining of the abdominal cavity, or the pericardium sac surrounding the heart. The cancer is incurable, and can manifest over 40 years after the initial exposure to asbestos. "This is the most dangerous type of asbestos because the fibres are smaller than the white asbestos and can penetrate the lung more easily," said toxicologist Dr. Chris Coggins in a statement published in OK! Magazine. Dr. Coggins went on to note that "Once diagnosed with mesothelioma, the victim has six months to a year to live. It gradually reduces lung function until the victim is no longer able to breathe and dies."Construction workers and next of kin of deceased workers filed a lawsuit in Tokyo, Japan Friday seeking damages of approximately 6.6 billion yen (about US$64 million) from the government and manufacturers related to illnesses stemming from exposure to asbestos. 178 plaintiffs; including construction workers and family members filed the suit in Tokyo District Court against 46 building manufacturers and the Government of Japan.According to the Mainichi Daily News, the class action suit is the first that has been filed in Japan related to health damages caused by asbestos exposure at construction sites. The plaintiffs hail from the Japanese prefectures of Tokyo, Saitama and Chiba.The plaintiffs claim that the government and manufacturers knew of the dangers of asbestos inhalation but failed to take proper precautions, including ceasing to promote asbestos as a cheap fire retardant and banning production of the material. They state that after inhaling asbestos in the workplace, 172 people have developed lung cancer or mesothelioma, and that almost half of those afflicted are now dead. Plaintiffs argue that the government and health ministry did not act quickly enough after international organizations issued warnings in 1972 that asbestos could be a carcinogen. Plaintiffs also place blame with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for sanctioning the use of asbestos under Japanese Industrial Standards, and with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport for approving the use of materials comprised of asbestos and other substances under Japan's Building Standards Law."We will do our utmost until we win the suit," said Kazuo Miyajima, 78, who heads the group of plaintiffs. Lawyers for the plaintiffs released a statement saying: "We seek complete relief for the victims by clarifying the liability of the state and the manufacturers."Approximately 40 construction workers from Kanagawa Prefecture plan to file a similar lawsuit in June in Yokohama District Court.After a 2005 revelation that residents who lived near a factory in Amagasaki, Hyogo Prefecture developed diseases related to asbestos, the government implemented a law in 2006 which provides monetary assistance to asbestos victims and relatives of deceased family members. The plaintiffs argue that the amount of financial assistance given to families and victims of asbestos-related diseases is not sufficient.Asbestos has been used in Japan as a fire retardant, for sound absorption, and for insulation. It was mixed in concrete and water and sprayed on walls and ceilings, but the practice of spraying asbestos in this manner was banned in Japan in 1975.The Australian Security Intelligence Organisation, and the Federal government of Australia have settled out of court with a couple whose house had been raided a couple weeks after the 11 September 2001 attacks against the Pentagon and the World Trade Center towers in the USA.ASIO, a domestic counter-intelligence service, mistakenly raided the couples house when they had a search warrant for another house.The couple were detained for an hour and claimed they were assaulted, wrongfully detained and experienced severe shock when, according to their claims, ASIO officers threatened to destroy their door and then held them at gun point.It is also claimed that until an hour after the attack, ASIO officers would not allow Mrs. Fatme Iali to put on her clothes. As compensation, the couple asked the court for Aus$1.5 million in damages. Although it is unknown how much Bilal Daye and his wife received in the out of court settlement (under the terms of the deal, the settlement cannot be disclosed), they stated that they were satisfied with the result. "Just relieved, I can take care of my family now, that's all I wanted," Mr Daye said.Mr Daye's solicitor Stephen Hopper said the victory was very important for civil rights, but suggested that close scrutiy of government actions was required in the future. "What this case demonstrates is that ASIO can be held accountable ... the government can be held open to scrutiny," he said. "Control orders can be slapped onto a person before the evidence can be tested in court ... they should have to justify why such orders and restrictions should be put on a free person before they do it.""The government's got to be scrutinised for all of its actions and if they make a mistake they should be held accountable."Mr Hopper argued that the proposed Anti-Terrorism Bill could prevent media reporting of incidents such as this. "If the new laws were brought in and it was an issue of preventative detention no probably not, no," he said"If it's an issue of an ASIO warrant, under section 34d of the ASIO Act, no, you wouldn't and the Government's got to be scrutinised for all of its actions and if they make a mistake they should be held accountable," he added.It is unclear what implications it could have for websites like Wikinews, which are hosted on servers outside Australia.According to news reports from Turkey, a number of the members of the Turkish security forces, though unofficially, are treating Ogün Samast, the assassin of Hrant Dink as if he were a national hero. For instance, after being taken into custody, Samast was filmed shoulder to shoulder with the Turkish police, in front of a Turkish flag and a quote from Turkey's founder Atatürk: "The nation's land is sacred. It cannot be left to fate."On January 24th, Ogün Samast was transferred to the Bayrampaşa prison, Istanbul's largest prison. Before the transfer, inmates from a section of the prison were temporarily moved to another section, which, as a result, housed more than 100 inmates, 80 more than its maximum capacity. Then, the now-vacant section, often subject to inmates' complaints regarding bedbugs, was cleaned and disinfected. Finally, the walls were painted, a brand new cotton bed was put in, and red carpet was laid out on the floors of the section. When Samast was brought to the Bayrampaşa Prison, inmates witnessed that he was welcomed with cheers and applause by the jail management, soldiers, and the guards. Witnesses also report that Samast was given two guards to serve him. He ate kebab, a luxury food compared to the food given to other inmates. After four days, Samast was transferred to the Kandıra F-type Prison. Ultra-nationalist elements of the Turkish society seem to have penetrated into the Turkish security forces.  These events resulted major Turkish newspapers such as Sabah, Radikal, and Vatan to accuse the Turkish security forces and the Turkish state of supporting, endorsing, and cooperating with the killers of the journalist. A 52 year old Turkish-Armenian journalist, Hrant Dink was assassinated in front of the Agos newspaper office, at the Istanbul district of Osmanbey, where he worked as the editor and a journalist. Dink, a brave journalist who was not afraid to discuss one of Turkey's most controversial issues, clearly called what happened to Armenians in 1915 when the land was being governed by the Ottoman Empire the Armenian Genocide.Following her father's assassination, Dink's daughter, referring to the fascist obsession with pure blood, said: Large numbers of people marched protesting the killing of Hrant Dink on the day of his funeral, carrying placards that read "We are all Armenian" and "We are all Hrant Dink".In a videotape recorded prior to his murder on Sunday, Guatemalan lawyer Rodrigo Rosenberg accused President of Guatemala Álvaro Colom and his wife Sandra Torres of complicity in his violent death."If you are watching this message," Rosenberg told the camera, "it is because I was assassinated by President Álvaro Colom with help from [private secretary to the president] Gustavo Alejos."In the video, distributed at his funeral, Rosenberg attributed the motive of the incipient murder to his representation of businessman Khalil Musa. Musa and his daughter Marjorie were murdered in April. Rosenberg alleged that Musa was killed because he was unwilling to enter into corrupt dealings at the behest of president Colom.Presidential spokesperson Fernando Barrillas categorically rejected the accusations. "This reveals the intention of creating a political crisis around a case that should be investigated and processed by the courts," he said in a statement posted on the official web site of the Guatemalan government. Barrillas also announced the intention to seek international help in the investigation of Rosenberg's murder.Rosenberg was shot on Sunday while riding his bicycle in Zone 14 of Guatemala City. His video statement has been posted to the YouTube web site.Helen Mack of the Myrna Mack Foundation, a Guatemalan Human Rights organization, called for the video to be authenticated by experts, describing the investigation of the accusations as "rather difficult at a political level." ((Translated from Spanish))Spanish: ‍bastante difícil a nivel político.NASA astronaut Lisa Nowak was arrested at Orlando International Airport on charges of attempted kidnapping, battery, attempted vehicle burglary with battery, and destruction of evidence. The latter charge was dismissed, but despite posting bail for the others her release was delayed after police announced they were filing an attempted murder charge against her. Nowak flew on STS-121 last July.UPDATE: Chinese Asylum Seeker Ends Hunger Strike After 54 Days.A Chinese man in Australian immigration detention is still refusing food, seven weeks after starting his hunger strike.Jen Wen Zhang, a detainee at Sydney's Villawood Immigration Detention Centre, has refused food since October 20. Mr Zhang and five other Chinese asylum seekers began the strike in protest at Australia's Mandatory Detention policy. Five of the six hunger strikers ended their protest in November.The Department of Immigration (DIMIA) says Mr Zhang is continuing his hunger strike after being hospitalised a fortnight ago. Now back in Villawood he is being closely monitored. A DIMMIA spokesperson said Mr Zhang was being urged to end his strike. The government continues to resist Mr Zhang's protest. "As the minister said, his actions will not influence his migration status or outcomes," said the spokesperson.Victorian Greens refugees spokesman, Peter Job, has been speaking to Mr Zhang, and said the asylum seeker is determined to continue to strike despite his ailing health. Mr Job said Mr Zhang believes he was denied a fair hearing from the Immigration Department and the Refugee Review Tribunal, but was taking political action for all detained asylum seekers."He felt he had no option but to fight in the only way he could, with his body," said Mr Job. "But above all, he spoke of his dread of long-term detention, telling of waking continually in the morning with a sense of profound despair and foreboding due to his incarceration, and telling me he feared the mental health damage he had seen in so many long-term detainees," he said.Mr Job says he has tried to convince Mr Zhang to stop the hunger strike, but says he is in a desperate state. "He is very upset, he feels that he will be in great danger if he returns to China," Mr Job said. "He said he'd rather die here in Australia than go back to China, where he's convinced he'll be persecuted.Refugee Action Coalition (RAC) spokesman Ian Rintoul said the Immigration Department has been riddled with problems and too often rejected long-term detainees who are genuine refugees."The government itself has recognised there have been many mistakes in the department's processes, there have been many problems with the way asylum seekers have been dealt with," Mr Rintoul said. "That's why we're desperately trying to urge the government to intervene in this particular case."Immigration Minister Amanda Vanstone said in mid November that the Government has done all it can for the Chinese asylum seeker. "I don't support this kind of protest, I don't think anyone does, I recognise the risk it can play for the protesters themselves," she said. "I've written to them urging them to get off their protest and making it clear to them that the Government doesn't consider cases while people are engaging in this sort of potentially very harmful protest."Another Villawood detainee, Motahar Hussein, says Mr Zheng's health has drastically deteriorated and  suspects that vital organs have experienced permanent damage. "Though DIMIA continuously attempts to devise creative ways of crushing Mr. Jun Wen Zhang's spirit, he will not be easily intimidated," said Mr Hussein in a media release. "He is willing and determined to continue with his peaceful and civilised protest. He believes he has no other option. He finds himself compelled to do so by the Howard Government's policy of inhumane and indefinite detention. He is prepared to continue to the supreme and utmost sacrifice of his own life, hopefully, in an attempt to expose DIMIA's attitude of injustice and corruption."At least 200 New Orleans law officers have left the force following the devastating effects of Hurricane Katrina.  Some had notified their superiors, but others did not.  A few officers simply threw their badges out the window and attempted to drive a squad car to northern Louisiana after the storm.  Some of the reasons given were because of lack of support from the local government in dealing with the crisis, others such as psychological problems with being in armed confrontation with people foraging for food and water in a desperate situation, where they were left alone but called looters and thugs by the authorities if they helped themselves, and losing their own families might have driven at least two officers to commit suicide.  Reports are that some officers resorted to using their own personal firearms because of the severe equipment shortage, even before the coastal region was devastated by the hurricane.  The morale of the police force, which has dealt with the highest number of murders per capita in the United States, is not a new issue. This natural disaster may have exacerbated long-standing tensions in the force that were already present.Clashes between members of the Mungiki sect and the residents of a Karatina village in Nyeri District killed at least 24 people in the African country Kenya on Tuesday. A further four people have been seriously injured and have been hospitalised after the incident. 37 people have been arrested by the police, who also seized weapons such as axes, clubs, and machetes.The deputy police spokesman, Charles Owino, stated that the attacks occurred at night, after locals of the village attacked members of the Mungiki sect, claiming that the latter had been extorting money from them.Witness reports say that a gang of young men with crude weapons conducted the killings between midnight and 2 a.m. in the Gathaithi-Kiangumara and Kiaruhiu villages. Police say that the Mungiki is a sort of mafia, involved in kidnapping, murder, and extortion, amongst other activities. The sect says it has two million members in Kenya, and supports a return to tribal customs and traditions.At least 24 people were killed and more than 60 were injured when a suicide bomber struck outside a courthouse in the Pakistani city Lahore. The bombing took place at approximately 0700 UTC (1200 local time)Lahore Police Chief Malik Iqbal says the bombing was aiming at police deployed outside the Lahore courthouse Thursday preparing for an anti-government protest by lawyers."This was a suicide attack and the police on duty were the target," he said.Local television footage showed a chaotic scene outside the courthouse, with the road littered with the dead and injured. Pakistan has suffered from a wave of bomb attacks in recent months, mostly against the security forces.  Hundreds of people have been killed. The government blames Islamic militants linked to al-Qaeda for the attacks.Two weeks ago opposition leader and former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in a bomb and gunfire attack as she left an election rally in Rawalpindi.Police Chief Iqbal says security has been tightened, throughout Lahore, following the latest attack."A large number of police are deployed...and the entire police (are) under high security alert and a large number of policemen are spread out around Lahore…. And, we are enhancing the security of important personalities," he said.However, Ayaz Amir, a political analyst, says the continuing violence, coupled with a deepening power crisis, is plunging the nation into chaos."It really means a greater slide into chaos. The government is loosing its grip," Amir said. "It doesn't have its grip on anything…They don't have a grip on energy, the power cuts and they don't certainly have a grip on the suicide bombers or whoever is causing mayhem across the country.  They don't have a grip on that."President Pervez Musharraf declared a state of emergency last November and suspended the constitution.  He says the extreme measures were necessary to curb rising violence by Islamic militants.But opponents say his real motive was to dismiss judges who were getting ready to rule that his re-election as president had been illegal.  Since then, the nation's lawyers have been among Mr. Musharraf's strongest critics.The emergency was lifted in December and elections were scheduled for this month.  But the three days of rioting that followed the Bhutto assassination prompted Mr. Musharraf to postpone the elections to February 18.A bus bombing in Sri Lanka  has killed at least 25 and wounded at least 40.The bomb exploded just outside the capital city, Sri Jayawardenapura-Kotte, with the wounded transported to nearby Kalubovila hospital. The explosion occurred during the evening rush hour."It's a parcel bomb of about 3kg (6 lbs) with a time device. It was placed in the middle of the bus," said a bomb squad official to Reuters.As well as wounds sustained from the explosion, several passengers were burned after the commuter bus caught fire straight after the explosion.The government has blamed the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)for the bombing."It's definitely by the LTTE, with the recent losses and battlefield defeats they are desperate," said Brigadier Udaya Nanayakkara, a spokesperson for the military.Fighting between the government forces and the LTTE has escalated since a cease-fire ended in January.In the latest of a series of prison riots in prisons across Brazil, dozens of inmates, mostly rival gangs, were reported dead at the State Penitentiary of Alcaçuz, a state prison located in Natal, the capital of the Brazilian state, Rio Grande do Norte. Reports vary but, as of Sunday, the death toll may have reached 26. According to the BBC, this figure is triple the initial reports.Prison authorities said that some victims were decapitated. Prison coordinator Zemilton Silva witnessed this happen to three men, and forensic report that there have been more.The Ministry of Justice and state-run news outlet Agência Brasil said the latest riot started at around 5:00 p.m., local time, on Saturday. It continued until the security forces quelled the riot on Sunday at around 7:15 a.m..Agence France Presse (AFP) and Rio de Janeiro newspaper O Globo report that the gang members of the Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC) and Comando Vermelho were the latest riot's participants. CNN reports that its participants were PCC and Sindicato do Crime do RN. The gangs had been housed in separate parts of the prison. Six of the ringleaders have been captured and sent to other facilities. Like other riots this year, overcrowding may have contributed to the latest riot. According to Brazil's justice department, the Alcaçuz prison houses more than 1,000 inmates on a capacity of 620.Reports about authorities killed or injured in the riots are not yet confirmed, says the BBC.O Globo also reported that one inmate attempted to escape but was quickly recaptured. No other inmates have been reported missing, but nine injured inmates were sent to hospital.O Globo says the cause of the riot was drug-related. PCC and Comando Vermelho cooperated on drug trade from mid-1990s to reportedly summer 2016. Their split led Comando Vermelho to team up with five other gang organizations "to counter the PCC's growing might."The Alcaçuz prison riot is part of a series of Brazilian prison riots this year. At least 100 inmates died in this month's previous two riots, one in Amazonas and another in Roraima. The Amazonas prison riot on January 1–2 resulted in at least 56 killed inmates, of whom many were beheaded and dismembered. The Roraima riot on January 6 resulted in at least 33 killed, of whom many were disembowelled.In the wake of this year's riots, the Brazilian President Michel Temer announced to Reuters yesterday a plan, under joint cooperation of state and federal governments, to build nearly thirty prisons by 2018, including "five maximum security prisons to house the most violent convicts," and to create intelligence units in effort to counter the influence of powerful inmates. Temer announced more than one billion Brazilian reals (US$309 million) as the budget of the plan.However, human rights activists and experts were skeptical about building more prisons. Camila Nunes, a sociologist of the Federal University of ABC, told the AFP "medium- and long-term policies to reduce the vulnerability of certain social groups [and] to prioritize prevention rather than repression" are needed.Reuters reported Alexandre de Moraes, minister of the Justice Department, recently authorized the state of Rio Grande do Norte to spend 13 million Brazilian reals to upgrade and expand prison equipment. De Moraes promised to prevent more prison riots by increasing funds and prison security.Meanwhile, Luiz Alberto Cartaxo, the prison chief for the southern Paraná state, said an explosion on Sunday broke a guarding wall of a Piraquara prison, prompting at least 21 inmates to escape. Cartaxo also reported that two other inmates were killed by police during their escape attempt.A 2014 report by Brazil's justice department analyzes the statistics of the nation's prison population. The country has more than 622,000 inmates, mostly young black men, exceeding the capacity by at least 50 percent. Brazil is placed fourth in the world's largest prison population, surpassed by the respective numbers of those in the United States, in China, and in Russia.At least five police officers were shot this morning in the Stanton Heights section of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The alleged 23-year-old shooter, Richard "Pop" Poplawski, surrendered to police around 11 a.m. EST after fatally shooting three officers and wounding two others.Initially, four police officers responded to 1016 Fairfield Street for a domestic dispute call around 7 a.m. The shooter, who was armed with a high-powered assault rifle, an AK47 and a bullet-proof vest, was hanging out of the window and opened fire on the officers.When SWAT members arrived on the scene to assist officers, they were also shot at by the suspect. A neighbor says an estimated 100 rounds of ammunition were shot off before the suspect surrendered to police. The shooter, upon surrendering, was taken to the UPMC Presbyterian hospital with injuries. Edward Perkovic, a friend of the alleged shooter, told local news affiliate WTAE-TV that Poplawski called him around 8:30 a.m. on the phone and said that "he [Poplawski] was going to die today.""This was a complete surprise to me and my family and everyone's families that were friends with him. Nobody ever expected something like this from him," Perkovic said, adding that Poplawski was scared of "the Obama gun ban that's on the way" and "didn't like our rights being infringed upon." Another longtime friend, Joe DiMarco, told KDKA-TV that Poplawski had been laid off earlier this year from his job at a glass factory and that Poplawski was upset about losing his job.During the several-hour long standoff, police claim Poplawski was watching the special breaking news coverage on local TV stations. Therefore, police had to move the media away from the scene for a short time.  In the end, Pennsylvania state police, Allegheny County police, Pittsburgh police, SWAT members and a state police helicopter responded to scene.WPXI-TV reporter Rick Earle said his sources say one of the injured officers was shot in the hand, and the other broke his leg while jumping over a fence.One of the officers who was fatally shot, a thirteen year veteran with the Pittsburgh Police, was off-duty at the time but responded to the scene to offer his help. The two other officers who were fatally shot allegedly joined the police force in 2007.Police spokeswoman Diane Richards said medics at the scene were unable to reach the wounded officers for a while because of the continuous shooting.WPXI-TV reports that Poplawski had previously been training to become a U.S. Marine, but was kicked out of boot camp. He was also reportedly expelled from North Catholic High School in Pittsburgh.More details are to be released by Police Chief Nathan Harper at a 3 p.m. news conference at Pittsburgh Police Headquarters.Two weeks ago four police officers were killed in a fatal shooting in Oakland, Calif., in what was the deadliest day for U.S. law enforcement since Sept. 11, 2001.Iraq's Interior Ministry reported that at least 41 people were killed and a further 68 wounded on Wednesday after two car bombings in the country's capital of Baghdad.Two explosions occurred within quarter of an hour of each other in the late afternoon in Sadr City. The bombings hit a restaurant and a flea market. A third vehicle in the area laden with bombs was discovered and defused without incident by police."I saw my blood covering the clothes that I had planned to take to my kids," said a witness to the incident, Saadi Rashid. "What a disaster when I felt that I couldn't bear to walk or even to stand."Sadr City is a predominantly Shiite Muslim-populated area located in Eastern Baghdad, and is home to about two and a half million people. It has been the target of a series of attacks by suspected Sunni insurgents. In November 2006, five car bombings killed 215 people in the city in one of the most deadly attacks in the ongoing war.The incidents occurred less than a week after a two-day span of bombings in the area killed 150 people. The attacks, which appear to be aimed at Shiite Muslims, have raised concerns that the Sunni insurgents are regrouping and have become stronger.At least 45 people have been killed in a new surge of violence that began after Kenya's disputed December 27 presidential election. Some sources have said that there have been over 80 deaths in the last 3 days. The latest deaths come as former U.N. secretary-general Kofi Annan is in Kenya to try to broker a compromise.Police had imposed an overnight curfew in the city of Nakuru, about two hours north of Nairobi, after new violence broke out on Friday. The killings appear to be ethnically motivated, as Kikuyus seek revenge for attacks against their fellow tribesmen in recent weeks.Officials estimate that nearly 800 people have been killed since the vote, which saw President Mwai Kibaki, a Kikuyu, defeat opposition candidate Raila Odinga by just 230,000 votes.  Odinga supporters from the Luo, Kalenjin and other smaller ethnic groups claim the election was stolen, and international observers say the vote was flawed.Widespread anger at the election results sparked violence in Nairobi's slums and parts of the west, and tens of thousands of Kikuyus fled their homes.  The violence had largely died down in recent days, but has erupted again in Nakuru.Police also said Saturday that at least 15 people have been killed in the town of Molo, west of Nakuru. The two towns are in the Rift Valley, an ethnically mixed area that has seen violence in the past over land and resources."The Kalenjins had already pushed and got the Kikuyus earlier so what they are doing is the Kikuyus are trying to revenge and get back their places, get back their houses," said Jimmy Mucheru, who is a local safari guide in Nakuru.  "There is not much hope for peace because the two groups are really after each other."The new wave of violence came as former U.N. secretary-general Kofi Annan was in Kenya trying to resolve the crisis. In a news conference on Saturday, he urged followers of the two leaders to remain calm. He said he saw several camps for people who have been displaced by the crisis."What we saw was rather tragic," he noted.  "We visited several IDP camps, we saw people pushed from their homes, from their farms, grandmothers, children, families uprooted. And I think it is important that all Kenyans respond with sympathy and understanding and not try to [seek] revenge."On Thursday, Mr. Annan managed to secure the first face-to-face meeting between Mr. Kibaki and Mr. Odinga, a move hailed as a breakthrough. But the two sides have shown no willingness to negotiate issues of substance. Mr. Kibaki insists he is the legitimate president of Kenya, while Mr. Odinga is demanding a new vote.Mr. Annan urged people to give more time to Mr. Kibaki and Mr. Odinga to work out a solution."No one should take the law into his or her own hands," he added.  "Allow the leaders the opportunity to resolve these issues - and as I said - including the long-term issues. And we are here to help them, that was the purpose and objective of that meeting."Mr. Annan told reporters it is unacceptable that no one has been held accountable for the violence, though he did not apportion blame.Earlier this week, the New York-based Human Rights Watch reported what it said was evidence that the opposition had organized some attacks. Mr. Odinga's team has denied those claims.In the early morning hours of today, according to police, a man by the name of Omar Mateen entered Pulse Nightclub, a gay club in Orlando, Florida, and opened fire. 50 people were killed and 53 were hospitalized.It is now the largest mass shooting in United States history, with the Virginia Tech and Sandy Hook Elementary shootings the closest behind. The shooter today used an automatic rifle according to one account; took hostages, and was eventually killed in a gun battle with SWAT units.Mateen's father, Mir Seddique, said in remarks to NBC News the attack was not about religion. The shooter allegedly called 911, the emergency phone number in the United States, and pledged his allegiance to ISIS. ISIS has claimed responsibility, according to a tweet from Reuters India. Reportedly, many have praised the attack on pro-ISIS forums.Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer has declared a state of emergency.According to Orlando Police Chief John Mina, "It appears [Omar Mateen] was organized and well-prepared"."It's just shocking [...] just one after another after another [...] It could have lasted a whole song", commented Christopher Hansen, who was getting a drink when gunshots rang out.In Saudi Arabia, six Shia Muslim activists, along with at least 46 other people, are to be executed for terrorism on an unspecified date, according to reports on Thursday.Varying local media reports said at least 52 people will be executed. Saudi Arabian newspaper Okaz said some of the people convicted of terrorism were members of the militant group Al-Qaeda, and were convicted of attempting to overthrow the government and planning terrorist attacks. The 52 have allegedly killed at least a hundred civilians and seventy security personnel.Amnesty International said others who are also to be executed were people from the city of Awamiya, where most of the population consists of Shia Muslims, a minority within Saudi Arabia. Protests have been held there, across the past several years, over alleged mistreatment of Shias by the government. Among those convicted of terrorism were the six Shia Muslim activists, at least two of whom reportedly were minors when they allegedly committed their crimes. Amnesty International has said the trials leading up to their conviction were clearly "unfair".James Lynch, Middle East and North Africa deputy director of Amnesty International, said Saudi Arabia was settling "political scores" under "the guise of counter-terrorism."The three Shias, Ali al-Nimr, Abdullah al-Zaher, and Hussein al-Marhoon, said they have confessed to their supposed criminal acts under torture, according to Lynch.More than 150 people have been executed in Saudi Arabia in 2015, while only 90 were executed a year ago in 2014, said Amnesty International. This news came after Saudi-born Palestinian poet Ashraf Fayadh was convicted of apostasy and sentenced to death by a court in Saudi Arabia, which Human Rights Watch researcher Adam Coogle called an example of Saudi Arabia’s “complete intolerance for anyone who may not share government-mandated religious, political, and social views."At least 56 inmates, mostly of rival drug gangs, were killed during a Sunday riot in Anisio Jobim Penitentiary Centre, a state prison located in Manaus, Brazil, according to official report. Some of those killed were decapitated.According to Amazonas state Public Security Secretary Sergio Fontes, members of two criminal organisations, the Família do Norte (FDN) and the Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC), were involved.The conflict started on Sunday. It lasted at least seventeen hours until the authorities quelled the riot on Monday at 7 a.m. local time, according to Fontes.According to Fontes, 74 inmates and twelve officers were held hostage, of whom some were released and others killed.  Six decapitated bodies were thrown over the walls.The Anisio Jobim Penitentiary Centre houses, by reports, several times its supposed capacity of inmates; 2230 on a capacity of 590 according to Reuters, 1224 on 454 according to BBC.According to officials, during the riot 112 inmates escaped.Fontes said competition for drug trade was the main reason for the riot. Former National Public Security Force secretary Jose Vicente da Silva said Brazil's prison system mismanagement and economic recession contributed to the riot.This latest riot is considered the deadliest since the 1992 prison massacre in Carandiru Penitentiary, São Paulo, where 111 inmates were killed, most by the police who stormed the penitentiary.Within a day of the latest riot at the Anisio Jobim Penitentiary Centre, individual riots at two other Manaus prisons reportedly occurred. At least 72 inmates escaped from one of these prisons.Brazil has more than 600,000 inmates nationwide.The Crandon, Wisconsin shooting occurred earlier today inside a home in northeastern Wisconsin and has left at least seven dead, including the gunman. Forest County Supervisor Tom Vollmar said, "It's a pretty tragic situation here... There are five or six people dead." WTMJ Newsradio told CNN that at least two of the dead are high school students.Ten youths were reportedly inside the house when the gunfire began.The shooter, Tyler Peterson, was killed by a police sniper after a manhunt.WITI-TV reports that one of the victims was a student at the Milwaukee Area Technical College.Crandon, Wisconsin, where the shooting occurred, has a population of nearly 2,000.The entire area was locked down, until recently, when police said they are no longer searching for any suspects. Crandon Police Chief John Dennee said, "We're not looking for anybody anymore." Crandon' Mayor, Gary Bradley, did not want to comment on the investigation, only saying, "We are going to get together and be strong...We are a strong community. We always have been. This is agonizing, but we will prevail."A mother of one of those fatally shot said, "I'm waiting for somebody to wake me up right now. This is a bad, bad dream...All I heard it was a jealous boyfriend and he went berserk. He took them all out." A neighbor who lives by the crime scene said, "I heard probably five or six shots, a short pause and then five or six more...I wasn't sure if it was gunfire initially. I thought some kids were messing around and hitting a nearby metal building."File:Anders Behring Breivik (Facebook portrait in suit).jpgA gunman, identified by Norwegian media as Anders Behring Breivik, has shot and killed at least 85 people at a youth camp on the island of Utøya in Norway. The 32-year-old man has been charged with both this attack and an explosion in the capital city of Oslo, which killed at least seven people. Police searched Breivik's apartment in Oslo overnight and have been interrogating him.Breivik is reported to have arrived at the camp dressed as a police officer, telling children to gather around him for protection before systematically shooting them. It is not yet known whether he acted alone; police say there are no concrete reports of a second gunman, but this cannot be ruled out.The camp was organised by the Workers' Youth League (AUF), which is affiliated with the Norwegian Labour Party. A number of sources, both inside and outside of Norway, are speculating that an opposition to the Labour Party's immigration policies, especially regarding Muslims, was Breivik's motivation for the attacks.Islam is the second largest religion in Norway, after Christianity, and Breivik's comments on the political website Document.no, where he posted using his real name between September 2009 and October 2010, expressed anti-Islamic sentiments. He described the religion as a "hate ideology" ((no))Norwegian language: ‍hat-ideologier and compared it to Nazism. His Twitter account was used to post only a single comment, quoting social liberal philosopher John Stuart Mill: "One person with a belief is equal to the force of 100 000 who have only interests".Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who described the island as "a youth paradise turned into a hell", reports that a number of children have not yet been located. He, and the families of some of the children killed, met with King Harald V of Norway, his wife Queen Sonja, and their son Crown Prince Haakon, and was said to have been "deeply touched" by the meetings.He also said that it is "too early to speculate" about the shootings, and that the police should be allowed to continue with their investigations before people "jump to any conclusions".Breivik, who ran a farm, reportedly recently purchased six tonnes of fertiliser, which is speculated to have been involved in the making of the Oslo bomb.The island of Utøya is closed to the public, and an official at the British embassy in Oslo does not recommend travel to the immediate area of central Oslo where the bomb was detonated. However, she is not discouraging travel to Norway, nor to Oslo.According to Burma's government, the military has killed at least nine protesters and wounded 42 others in their second day crackdown on peaceful demonstrations that have been taking place for nearly almost a month. At least one monk is rumored to have been killed and a 50-year-old Japanese journalist was also killed.Witnesses on scene claim that troops fired into the crowd of 10,000 "pro-democracy" protesters with automatic weapons in an attempt to break up the crowds. The military sent troops through the city street warning protesters that they would use deadly force if they did not stop their demonstrations.Some media agencies in the area claim that the protesters are to blame for the violence, accusing them of "intimidating" the military, and injuring at least 31 troops.On September 27, at least 200 monks were arrested in Myanmar during night-time raids on monasteries not long before sunrise. 100 of those monks were taken by security forces when they raided a monastery at Ngwe Kyaryan.The protests in Burma began last month after the military abruptly raised fuel prices by 100 percent. They have since expanded into countrywide demonstrations against 45 uninterrupted years of military rule.At least eight construction workers have died and thirteen more are injured after a building collapsed during construction in Qiuzhigou Village, a suburb of China's Wuhan City. It is unclear how many more if any are trapped as the project's coordinator fled and is being sought by police.The collapse occurred at 5 p.m. local time yesterday and reduced the four-story structure to a five-metre pile of rubble. The building was a private residence and was illegal as authorities had not been informed of it. Its location in an area accessible only via narrow alleys is hampering search and rescue efforts as heavy equipment such as cranes is having difficulty reaching the scene.Around 100 rescuers continue to pick through the rubble in the rain. An investigation has been launched.According to reports, at least one person has been killed and a further eighteen wounded after multiple grenade attacks in Kigali, the capital of the African country of Rwanda.The attacks occurred at a train station, restaurant, and building housing businesses. According to the Al Jazeera news agency, five of those hurt were in serious condition.A police spokesman commented that it was not immediately clear who was responsible for the attacks or whether they were coordinated. Spokesman Eric Kayiranga noted that "[t]here is a possibility of it being the FDLR [Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda], or criminals, or an accident. It can be any of that. We can't confirm that for now." He did, however, confirm the death toll, saying: "There was one death and eighteen injuries."Kayiranga also reported that two people had been taken into custody following the incidents. "Two suspects were apprehended, they belong to the Interahamwe militia," he said to Agence France-Presse, referring to a militia of the Hutu ethnic group, considered responsible for the 1994 Rwandan genocide of Tutsis. "We are continuing the investigation and questioning the two suspects," the spokesman added.According to reports, at least ten people were killed in the Nigerian city of Jos on Sunday, after clashes between Christian and Muslim gangs. This comes a year after similar violence last year killed hundreds.The fighting began when Christian youths demonstrated against the building of a mosque in Nassarawa Gwom district, which is predominantly Christian. Houses and cars were set ablaze, according to eyewitness reports."I cannot give casualty figures now until my men complete their full investigation. Thirty-five people were arrested," said Gregory Anyating, police commissioner."Ten bodies have so far been brought to the hospital, some with gunshot wounds," an unnamed nurse at the Jos University Teaching Hospital told the Agence France-Presse news agency, adding that six people had been admitted with deep wounds. Some reports, however, put the number of dead as high as twenty.In November of 2008, violence erupted throughout Jos, killing hundreds of people, after a dispute over an election. It remains, to date, the deadliest fighting between Christian and Muslim gangs in the country.Early on Friday, Islamic insurgents fought with African peace-keepers and the Somali army in Mogadishu, capital of Somalia, killing twelve people. The battle raged on for hours, according to sources. The al-Shabaab group claimed responsibility for the attack.Twelve civilians were killed in the incident, while 25 were injured. The Hodan Wardhigley and Howl Wadag districts were the worst hit. Medical authorities claimed that the deaths had occurred when mortar fire had burnt their houses. The fire came from both the insurgents and the peace-keepers, according to the officials. Ali Musa, one of the officials of a volunteer ambulance service in Mogadishu, said that a mother and her two children had died during the firing.The attack commenced on 2 AM, Friday. Awakened by mortar explosions, residents hid inside their houses, while others left for safer places. The battle went on for hours and the sound of the firing emanated to all parts of the Somali capital.This was the most intense fighting in months, claim residents. "I thought I was dreaming when I heard the sound of the artillery," said Asha Abdulle, Mogadishu resident, while Ahmed Hashi said that the fighting was the "worst in months." Nurta Hussein, another resident said: "We were woken up by the explosions at 2 a.m. and haven't slept since because of the non-stop shelling. Two mortar bombs landed in this neighborhood, killing four civilians and wounding six."Almost 20,000 Somali civilians have died since 2007, as a result of multiple insurgent attacks. Almost 1.5 million have been forced to leave the country since that time.The al-Shabab as well as another group, called Hizbul Islam, claimed responsibility in a statement they released. They successfully attacked "the strongholds of the enemies of Allah," claimed the statement. "The mujahideen attacked AMISOM and government bases last night and we killed some of their troops. When we pulled back, AMISOM began intentionally shelling residential areas. We shall keep on targeting them," said the attackers. However Somali officials called the attack "small and careless."Mogadishu's "Kilometer Four" area was one of those affected. It includes a square that connects the airport to the port. While the area has been attacked several times previously, this attack is said to be the worst. African Union peace-keepers from Uganda are posted there.The fighting comes almost a year since Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed was sworn in as the nation's new president.Al-Shabaab is considered a terrorist body by the United States; the latter blames it for multiple attacks, shootings and bombings inside Somalia.Al-Shabaab has also threatened other African countries, including Ethiopia, Djibouti, Kenya, Eritrea, Ghana, Sudan and Uganda.An African Union soldier, on a condition of anonymity, said that one Ugandan soldier was killed in the clash. He added that another soldier was wounded. A Somali government official backed this claim. Earlier, on Monday, two AU soldiers had died in another mortar attack in an AU clinic.When contacted through telephone, Somalia's Defence Minister, Sheikh Yusuf Mohammad Siad, who is a former warlord (also known as "Inda'ade" or "white eyed") said more than ten insurgents had died in the clash.Parts of the Shabaab group have connections with al-Qaeda. The former has regularly attacked different parts of Somalia, with suicide bombers and several insurgents, taking advantage of the weak political and military infrastructure of the country.The incident occurred exactly an year following President Sheikh Sharif Ahmed election to the parliament. The government was set to celebrate its first anniversary with a parade and poetry recitations at the presidential palace, named Villa Somalia. It was not known whether the attack intentionally collided with this event. However, it was a reminder of Somalia's weak military power; the army was heavily dependent on the African troops in this attack as well.For over two decades, the country has had no central government. This has led to warlords ruling the nation, which often suffers from attacks by militant groups and pirate ships.During an African Union (AU) summit Addis Ababa, capital of Ethiopia, Ali Jama' Jangeli, Somali Foreign Minister, requested more African Union troops to assist other soldiers in the capital. Both Kenya and Sudan backed Jangeli; Djibouti answered the call and promised to send 450 soldiers soon."The situation in Somalia is very grim, it is very precarious. It is threatening stability in the whole of the east Africa region and the Horn of Africa. It is in our interest as a region ... also in the interest of Africa to contribute more troops to Somalia so that there is law and order in Somalia," claimed Jangeli's Sudanese counterpart, Deng Alor.The United States and Western nations are supportive of Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed's government, amidst fears that Somalia would become a base for al-Qaeda and other such organizations. However, the Somali government controls only few city blocks in the country.Apart from attacks on government forces, the militants have also bombed the country's principal airport. There also has been an explosion during a college graduation ceremony, claim civilians.Western nations have spent millions of dollars to buy weapons and ammunition for the Somali army. However, since the Shabab group controls a significant part of the country, the Somali government has had limited success. The group has won several battles and displaced millions of Somali people.According to police reports, at least two people were killed and five more wounded on Friday after a gunman opened fire at a subway station in Mexico City, Mexico.Witness reports say that two men were shouting slogans against the government in the Balderas station. One of them started drawing graffiti on a wall, and opened fire when a police officer tried to restrain him.The police officer and a passerby who tried to stop the gunman were both killed.Only one person was arrested after the incident, the El Universal newspaper reported. He was later identified as Luis Felipe Hernandez Castillo, 38.Manuel Mondragon, the police chief, pledged to increase police presence in the subway system following the attack.A class action suit has been filed on Tuesday by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) against the telecom giant AT&T. The suit, filed in San Francisco, alleges that AT&T violated federal laws by collaborating with government to eavesdrop on U.S. citizens.The Bush Administration and NSA have come under fire over the issue.  They defend the program by saying they are only listening in on suspected terrorists.The EFF claims that AT&T turned over 2 databases consisting of their subscribers' communication and internet usage records.Attorney Kevin Bankston representing the EFF said the government could not conduct their surveillance without the help of companies like AT&T.  He also said their goal is to tell AT&T that it is not in their fiscal best interests, along with not being legal, to cooperate with the President's wiretap program.According to the class action suit, AT&T granted "access to all or a substantial number of the communications transmitted through its key domestic telecommunications facilities, including direct access to streams of domestic, international and foreign telephone and Internet communications." The lawsuit is seeking damages of $22,000 for each AT&T customer in addition to punitive fines.AT&T is also facing scrutiny from the Federal Communications Commission and possibly fines for failing to properly certify that customer records were safeguarded.A bombing outside the Hellenic Federation of Enterprises in central Athens, Greece early yesterday morning caused heavy damage to the Cypriot embassy across the street.The explosion hit Xenofontos Street around 3.30 a.m. local time (0130 UTC). Police had cordoned off the area after two local newspapers received calls warning of the impending blast 30–40 minutes before the blast. Unconfirmed reports state the bomb as being 3kg of explosives left in a backpack outside the office and detonated by a timer.Police evacuated a hotel near the scene and warned kiosk vendors in the vicinity. Nobody was injured. The site is close to the city's famed Syntagma Square. Witnesses report two individuals leaving the bag and police told Reuters a CCTV camera recorded two dark-clad men speeding off on a motorcycle.Kyriakos Kenevezos, the Cypriot Ambassador, said to state media conglomerate CNA "Our embassy absorbed the full impact of the blast[...] there is incalculable damage to the interior from the ground floor to the sixth floor." Domestic anarchist and extreme left militants have been carrying out bombings and starting fires since 2010 saw the introduction of widespread austerity. Attacks have however decreased since left-wingers Syriza took power in January under Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. The government condemned the attacks, as did conservative opposition party New Democracy.The Atlantic Lottery Corporation says it will team up with all four Atlantic Canada provinces for an investigation into Atlantic Canada's lottery system. The corporation will pay a total of $300,000 for the investigation.Nova Scotia is the first Atlantic province to fully investigate lottery sales. After several concerns, New Brunswick ombudsman, Bernard Richard, monitored their lottery for some time but no investigation was carried."People have to have confidence that our systems are fair, secure," said Marie Mullally, president of the Atlantic Lottery Corporation in Nova Scotia. "It references a number of aspects of ALC business, it talks about all aspects of our operations, and to date, most of our focus has been on issues arising from retailer wins."The investigation is expected to be started late June.Recently, the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation was under investigation under allegations that lottery retailers stole prizes from consumers.A customer could go into a variety store and ask the retailer to check their tickets for them. If a retailer saw a winning ticket they could tell the customer they didn't win and keep the prize to themselves. It was proven after Ontario man Robert 'Bob' Edmonds sued the corporation in 2001 for refusing to return his winnings, after a store woman clerk claimed that he did not win. Days after, the clerk and her husband claimed Edmonds' jackpot of $250,000.An ATM in Virginia Beach, Virginia was cracked so it would give out 4  times as much money as it was supposed to; and this was done just by entering numbers into the keypad.A man bought a pre-paid card and used it in the ATM.  The attack consisted of a magic number which was entered in the PIN keypad, which caused the machine to disburse $20 bills when it recorded giving out $5 dollar bills.No one in authority noticed for nine days, until an honest ATM user reported the machine was giving out too much money.A radio-controlled bomb exploded in the city center in the southern Russian city of Stavropol earlier today, killing at least six and injuring more than 40, according to initial reports.The explosion occurred at 18.45 Moscow time (UTC 14.45) in front of the Stavropol Trade-Union Sport and Culture Palace, where many people gathered, the Stavropolye State TV Company reports.  A performance by Chechen dance ensemble "Vainakh" was about to begin in the Palace.  Security officials haven't dismissed a possible connection between the concert and the attack."According to preliminary reports, several of those that were hospitalised are now in intensive care. The wounded have shrapnel wounds. Their conditions are considered critical or medium-critical," said Boris Skripka, the head of the civilian defense and emergency situation administration.The country has seen some violence from rebel groups recently: on March 29, suicide bombings at the Moscow Metro killed at least 40 people and wounded over 100. Stavropol is included in the newly-created North Caucasian Federal District of Russia.An attack on a mosque has killed at least 32 people, near Pakistan's military headquarters in the city of Rawalpindi. There have been conflicting accounts of the attack, but police reported gunfire and at least one explosion at the mosque soon after prayers on Friday morning. It is thought that one or more suicide bombers may have been involved.The attack took place at the Parade Lane mosque, in a part of the city containing several defence department buildings. Security workers cordoned off the scene while ambulances rushed to take victims to the hospital. "There was certainly more than one attacker, so there is a possibility that some of them may still be hiding in the vicinity," said Athar Abbas, a spokesman for the military.It is the latest in a series of attacks that have rocked Pakistan since the government launched an offensive against al-Qaeda and the Taliban in the northwest region bordering Afghanistan. On Thursday, a bomb blast at a police checkpoint wounded at least two policemen in the northwestern city of Peshawar.On Wednesday, a suicide bomber killed two guards and wounded eleven other people at naval headquarters in Pakistan's capital Islamabad. The same day, the military said troops killed fifteen suspected miltants, including a top militant commander, in the Swat Valley, the site of a major offensive earlier this year.Citizens in Israel who participated in the 2010 'Freedom Flotilla' to Gaza will not be prosecuted, according to a statement released today by the Attorney General of Israel, Yehuda Weinstein.Weinstein said the cases had been closed due to "evidentiary and legal difficulties" related to "proving the basis of the office as well as legal questions regarding the jurisdiction of Israeli law on crimes committed abroad."Haneen Zoabi, an Israeli Arab and member of the Knesset for the Balad party, was amongst the Israeli citizens who participated in the flotilla. She responded to the dropping of the cases by saying that it "proves what I said all along. My participation in the flotilla was a political act and entirely legal."Anastassia Michaeli, a Knesset member for the nationalist party Yisrael Beiteinu, said the decision to drop the cases was "a boost and reward for terror in Israel and around the globe".Dominic Grieve, the Attorney General for England and Wales, has vetoed a request under the Freedom of Information Act 2000 to release correspondence sent by Prince Charles to government ministers while Tony Blair was Prime Minister from September 2004 to April 2005. The decision by the Attorney General overturns a previous decision by the Administrative Appeals Chamber which said there was a public interest in publishing the letters.In a statement, Grieve made a case for it being in the public interest to not release the documents. He noted that the publication of the Prince's correspondence would damage his preparation for kingship by damaging the public perception that he is "party-political neutral" by showing the Prince disagreeing with the policies of the government. Grieve then stated "[a]ny such perception would be seriously damaging to his role as future Monarch, because if he forfeits his position of political neutrality as heir to the Throne, he cannot easily recover it when he is King".Grieve's statement did note that the letters from Prince Charles "reflect his personal and deeply held views and convictions" and "are in many cases particularly frank" but notes there is "nothing improper in the nature or content of these letters".The Freedom of Information Act request was made by Rob Evans, a journalist writing for The Guardian. The Guardian stated they intend to take the government to court to challenge Grieve's decision.Graham Smith from the anti-monarchist group Republic said, "[the] decision is a serious affront to British democracy". Smith argued: "Grieve has said this is about protecting prince Charles’s impartiality, but that impartiality doesn’t exist. Charles has made that clear. This decision is about pretending Charles is impartial while he continues to lobby in favour of his own political agenda. If Grieve believes Charles to be impartial then let him prove it by allowing the release of these documents."Prince Charles has been criticised in the past for repeated use of his power and influence. The architect Richard Rogers claimed that the Prince, who has strongly traditionalist views on architecture, repeatedly intervened to have projects cancelled which he was working on. Rogers criticised the decision not to release Charles' correspondence: "It is not democratic to cover up his interventions."Attorney Jack Thompson, fresh from the "Hot Coffee" controversy, has set his sights on the Electronic Arts (EA) video game The Sims 2 for a mod that removed the blur on nude character models in the game.Thompson was quoted as saying "Sims 2, the latest version of the Sims video game franchise ... contains, according to video game news sites, full frontal nudity, including nipples, penises, labia, and pubic hair." Factually, the characters resemble that of a child's dolls. Thompson also accused EA of being in collaboration with the mod makers.In Electronic Arts' defense, EA spokesman Jeff Brown said, “Reasonable people understand there is nothing improper in the game. Reasonable people recognise what mods are. A consumer who chooses to use a mod does so without any kind of agreement with the company. There is no nudity. There is nothing improper or vulgar in the Sims 2.” A mod is third-party add-on to a game. Mods range from minor and subtle changes to the game, to full-fledged "total conversions" which merely use the original game engine to create a very different game.Selwyn faced two charges of "making a seditious statement" relating to pamphlets he had left near the scene of an axe attack on the Prime Minister's electorate office in November, 2004, which had called upon like-minded New Zealanders to "engage in similar acts of civil disobedience" and to "take similar action of their own". The charges were laid under s81(1)(c) of New Zealand's Crimes Act 1961, which criminalises any statement intended to "incite... or encourage violence, lawlessness, or disorder". The offence carries a penalty of up to two year's jail. After deliberating for almost four hours, the jury convicted Selwyn of one charge, and acquitted him of the other.Speaking after the trial, Selwyn said that the jury had "criminalised a press statement".The trial has raised significant controversy within New Zealand, with many bloggers protesting. Blogger Idiot/Savant called the verdict "shameful" and said that it "opened the door to further prosecutions for what is effectively a political crime". Selwyn is currently free on bail pending sentencing next month, and is likely to appeal.A sexual attack on a woman in her Pukekohe, South Auckland home was, police say, premeditated.A man, who had been drinking, told the victim that he needed to use her phone, she handed him a portable phone through a small opening in the door and then closed the door. The man pretended to use the phone and then when she opened the door again to regain her phone the man barged his way in, at about 9:00 p.m., Tuesday, June 13 NZST.It was a five-hour attack and she only managed to escape when, the next day, she was driven to an ATM to withdraw money where she fumbled with her bank cards and while the attacker was distracted she ran to a service station.The victim told police that she believed that the man had been stalking her for about a week. Criminal profilers are worried that he may strike again.Detective Senior Sergeant Grimstone says "the terror in the woman's eyes is clearly visible as she asks for help at a service station."The attacker could be wearing blue jeans and a black jacket that was taken from the victim's house. The attacker is described as an unshaven Māori male in his late 30s or 40s.The Conservative Party of Canada is now  considering a 2005 recording of Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper discussing "financial considerations" offered to the late Member of Parliament (MP) Chuck Cadman to have been "doctored".The tape contains a conversation between Harper and Vancouver journalist Tom Zytaruk, whose book "Like a Rock: The Chuck Cadman Story" claims that Conservative party officials had offered a C$1 million life insurance policy to Cadman in exchange for a key swing vote against the Liberal Party, one of Canada's other main political parties. At the time of the alleged bribe, Cadman had already been diagnosed with terminal cancer.Conservative MP James Moore told reporters today that the tape had been altered, "including the insertion of a fabricated sound-bite." However, he would not comment on whether or not the edits had changed the meaning of Harper's words.The Liberal party had submitted the recording as evidence that Harper was aware of the Cadman insurance offer. Cadman's widow, Dona Cadman, has confirmed that the offer was presented to her husband. Conservatives deny the allegation, but say that party representatives had offered him a loan for campaign expenses if the MP were to rejoin the party.Harper has filed a lawsuit against the Liberal party, the Canadian government's official opposition.Kidnapped Israeli soldier Cpl. Gilad Shalit, 20, is believed to be alive, and Hamas has released an audio tape in which Shalit says he needs to be hospitalized and that he regrets that Israel has not met the demands of the kidnappers."I have been in prison for an entire year and my health is deteriorating. I need lengthy hospitalisation. I regret the lack of interest of the Israeli government and military in my case and their failure to meet the demands. Just as I have parents, a mother and father, thousands of Palestinian detainees have mothers and fathers whose sons must be returned to them. I have a great hope from my government that it show more interest in me and meet the demands of the Mujahideen (kidnappers)," said Shalit on the audio tape.Noam Shalit, Gilad's father says that he is "almost sure" that the voice on the tape is that of his son, but also states that "we cannot know when it was recorded. I imagine that it's the same as the letter they dictated to him and doesn't reflect his real state. We want somebody independent to see him, to examine him and the conditions under which he is held, his medical condition of course and his mental (condition)."Israeli officials believe that the kidnappers told Shalit what to say during the audio recording and that the Israeli government will not cooperate with the group."How cruel can Hamas be? We will not cooperate with Hamas. We will not compromise with Hamas," said Miri Eisin, a spokeswoman for Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.Hamas states that Israel had every chance to swap prisoners to release Shalit, but that Israel has to act."We have been flexible in every possible way when it came to a swap deal, but the Israeli side was too weak to make a decision. The ball is now in the Israeli court," said Osama al-Muzaini, a senior official for Hamas.Shalit was kidnapped exactly one year ago today on June 25, 2006. He was kidnapped in Gaza City which sparked a month long war between Lebanon and Israel.In Donora, Pennsylvania a woman is being accused of hiring two prostitutes last November to have sex with her 12-year-old nephew. Police said details began to surface just this month.The boy's mother said, "My anger is out of control." The mother's name was not released to protect the boy's identity and privacy.However, police said the boy's 36-year-old aunt, Linda Van Pool, is being charged with soliciting prostitution, corruption of a minor, and endangering the welfare of a child.The boy's mother reportedly is a bartender in Donora. She says Van Pool came to the bar asking for eighty dollars for the boy. The mother says she never thought the money would be used for prostitutes. She said, "I just thought he would call his grandmother and wind up spending it at Wal-Mart or wherever...I didn't know that she would take him to those type of women. I didn't think they existed in this area. I thought you had to go to Pittsburgh for that."Van Pool reportedly took the boy to two separate locations.Police said the 12-year-old's father had died a short time ago and that the child was "acting up", so the sex was thought to be "a way to appease the boy."Van Pool has been placed in the Washington County Correctional Facility on $5,000 bond. The two prostitutes have not been arrested, but police expect that their arrests will come shortly.A 27-year-old former beauty student from the Gold Coast of Australia faces the death penalty. She was allegedly caught at Bali airport importing marijuana from Australia in October. Appearing before an Indonesian judge after authorities found 4.1kg of high-grade cannabis in her unlocked boarding bag, she could be sentenced to death by firing squad, the maximum penalty for the crime.With that possibility looming for Ms. Corby, her father journeyed to her side, and an anonymous email petition was distributed around Australia and overseas, calling on the Australian government to ensure that, innocent or guilty, Ms. Corby is returned to Australia to escape execution.An Australian witness who volunteered information which he says will endanger his own life, has testified that Schapelle Corby was unwittingly caught up in a domestic Australian drug-running operation gone wrong. The man alleged that Australian airport workers had placed the contraband in her luggage after it had been checked-in, with the drugs to have been removed before the luggage left Australia. [1]Ms. Corby, who says she is innocent of the charges, staggered and paused to vomit while being led through a throng of journalists watching her trial in Jakarta, Indonesia, earlier today."I'm really sick," Ms. Corby told Densbar's head judge Linton Sirait, who told her to take better care of herself in jail so she would not get diarrhea. "Don't be stressed," Judge Sirait added as he adjourned the trial until April 14.Her sister said a doctor would visit her in prison to assess her condition. Her father, suffering with prostate cancer, said it was difficult to watch his daughter struggling so hard when things were nearing the "nitty-gritty now."He added: "The stress and the whole thing and the stomach cramps and the nerves. It's getting on top of her."Australian politicians, noting the public support thrown behind the Gold Coast citizen, are promising to take her case up on several issues with the Indonesian Attorney-General later today. However, Mr. Corby expressed doubts that politicians could work things out: "It depends on what they call justice here [in Indonesia]. It looks a bit fairyland to me.""Everything's reversed here. You're guilty until you're proven innocent," commented Mr. Corby in Indonesia. Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is said to be monitoring the case to ensure the court hands down a just and fair verdict.Ron Cahill, a Canberra resident and chief coroner of the Australian Capital Territory, has concluded the inquest into the deaths of three Australian nationals who were amongst the 21 people killed in the crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200. The Boeing 737-400 aircraft overshot a runway at Yogyakarta, Indonesia on March 7.The inquest indicated that Alison Sudradjat, Brice Steele and Mark Scott died from injuries sustained in the crash. Cahill commented that this finding would also apply to the deaths of two other Australians on the flight; the remaining fatal injuries were sustained by Indonesians. The inquest was opened at the request of families of the three victims involved in this inquest after the repatriation of their bodies.Cahill agreed fully with a recent report issued by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee, which indicated that the pilot-in-command attempted to land the aircraft at extreme speed despite 15 automated cockpit warnings and a request from the co-pilot to perform a go-around. He went on to suggest that the pilot should be prosecuted over his mistakes."I recommend that CASA and Air Services Australia and all Australian airlines review the report to consider whether any of the safety deficiencies identified have relevance to Australian aviation operations and therefore need to be addressed," he said.He went on to describe concerns with how these deficiencies are being addressed in Indonesia: "It is of some concern that the Indonesian regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, did not provide the National Transportation Safety Committee with details of safety action to address the recommendations which were in the draft report."Alison Sudrajat's daughter had this to say in light of the findings: "It was very informative and it was nice to know what exactly happened, because he went into quite some detail about everything." "It was quite comforting, but it's not going to bring anyone back."Australian prosecutors have dropped charges against Dr Mohamed Haneef, the Indian doctor held in Australia in connection with last month's attack on Glasgow airport. The Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions, Mr Bugg, said on Friday that a review he carried out found that there was insufficient evidence to support the charges of providing material support to terrorism laid against Dr. Haneef and that "embarrassing" mistakes were made. Dr Haneef was released from gaol and into "residential detention" until Immigration Minister Kevin Andrews reviews his earlier decision to cancel Haneef's visa.Mr Bugg said that a prosecutor had told a Brisbane court incorrect information. He said that one of his prosecutors told the court that the SIM card at the centre of the affair was found in a Jeep which was laden with explosives and driven into Glasgow International Airport on June 30. "The first related to the SIM card and was based on a misunderstanding of the facts," Bugg said."The second related to the residence of Dr. Haneef in the U.K. and was based on incorrect material provided by the AFP."Australian Federal Police chief Mick Kelty denied that the AFP had made any mistakes and said investigations would continue. He refused to rule out laying further charges against Dr Haneef.Australian Immigration Minister Kevin Andrews who previously suspended Dr Haneef's work visa after he was granted bail has said he will review his decision to cancel the visa on character grounds. Mr Andrews said that Haneef had to reside in a place of his choosing and was free to move about the community but had to report to Immigration officials daily by telephone and in person every few days.Speaking last night, Prime Minister John Howard attempted to distance his government from the affair claiming that his government had no control over how the police operate. Australian civil rights groups and political parties have strongly criticised the handling of the investigations.Haneef accompanied by his lawyer Peter Russo and his cousin Imran Siddiqui when he flew out of Brisbane Airport on Thai Airways flight TG 992 to Bangalore, India.The proposed legislation includes an increase in the number of security cameras, penalties for leaving bags unattended at airports, electronic tags and restraining orders on suspects and tougher jail terms for inciting violence. Greater powers will be given to police and spy agencies to deal with terror suspects, and the length of time before permanent residents may apply for citizenship will increase from two to three years.The Australian government has received criticism over its new proposed anti-terror laws, claiming they are encouraging a transition into a police state. Critics say that the laws are draconian, too open to abuse, and may restrict the Australian 'way of life'.The government has responded by saying that the laws are necessary to ensure security due to the rising terrorist threat to Australia. It is also considering sunset clauses for some laws, to counter claims that the laws may be abused after the terror threat has ebbed. There has been concern from the Muslim community that the laws are unfairly biased against Muslims. The government denied this. The Prime Minister John Howard said all Australians, including Muslims, should have nothing to fear if they are law-abiding citizens. "These laws are not directed at Islamic people, they are directed at people who might be contemplating terrorist deeds," Mr Howard said.There will be a meeting of State and Federal leaders, to determine the finer details of the new legislation, later this month.The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) ruled that Australia's Channel Seven has broken television regulations by showing a 15-second McDonald's advertisement during a children's program.The advertisement, a playground campaign, was shown 72 times in October and November 2010 during television broadcasts in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Perth.The DDB ad agency and OMD media agency were involved in the campaign's development.The advertisement was marketed as a network promotion but did not feature Channel Seven. The ACMA ruled that the advertisement was for the restaurant as the footage included the golden arches, and characters Grimace and Hamburglar.The campaign was filmed at Customs House in Sydney’s Circular Quay.The 2009 Children’s Television Standards prohibits advertising during preschool viewing periods and restricts it during children’s viewing periods.ACMA chairman Chris Chapman said: "The ACMA remains serious about the protection of children during children’s programming, particularly given their vulnerability to forms of advertising that are not well signposted or have the potential to be unduly influential."A Channel Seven Spokesman said, "We accept ACMA's finding and are implementing steps as discussed with the regulator to improve our processes.”McDonald’s has agreed with the ACMA about the placement of the advertisement. "McDonald's Australia is extremely disappointed that the identifier was placed during C and P viewing periods," a McDonald's spokesperson stated to AdNews. "This advertisement was not produced by McDonald’s but was produced and placed by Channel Seven. ... We take very seriously our commitment to responsible advertising where children are concerned."Channel Seven was not fined by the ACMA. The channel must implement a review process all non-program material that will be broadcast during P programs.Australia's High Court, in a unanimous decision today, found modchips to be legal. Mod-chips are attached to the system's motherboard to allow users to bypass copy detection and regional controls on game consoles such as PlayStation 2 and Xbox. While playing illegally copied games is a primary reason for some people to install modchips, modchips are still considered legal. They allow users to play games imported from different regions, play homebrew games, and create archival copies of games. Imported games are often cheaper and available sooner than from countries with late official release dates, such as Australia.  The court recognised that by the time a mod chip acts upon a copied game, the copyright violation has already taken place -- the mod chip is not responsible for the copyright violation.In many other countries selling and using modchips is illegal. In the UK the EU Copyright Directive has been used by Microsoft and Sony to prevent sales of modchips. The EU Copyright Directive makes it illegal to circumvent copy protection systems. A similar law, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), makes it illegal in the USA.The defendant in the case was retailer Eddy Stevens, who sold and installed PlayStation 2 modchips. Sony, the manufacturer of the Playstation 2, sued, arguing that modchips were in violation of Australian copyright law.The court ruled that because the modchips merely allow users to play copied or imported games, and do not enable the copying of games, modchips do not breach copyright. "There is no copyright reason why the purchaser should not be entitled to copy the CD-ROM and modify the console in such a way as to enjoy his or her lawfully acquired property without inhibition," said the court.  "This is a hell of a victory for the consumer. That's why we did it," said Mr. Stevens.The court also ruled that reading a program into RAM, while the game is being played, does not count as making a copy under copyright law.The Australian case is unique in that it is considered to be the first time DMCA-like provisions have been considered by a court of final appeal anywhere in the world.The New South Wales Fire Brigades (NSWFB) in Australia has come under scrutiny as a report highlights the latest in a string of sexual abuse and harassment cases. The report also describes the humilation of new recruits in "bizarre" initiation rituals.The independent investigation led by KPMG, a Swiss audit, taxation and advisory firm, found that less that 9% of those who claimed to have suffered from such abuse were said to be satisfied by the action taken by the NSWFB. The investigation states that "there are still instances of bullying and harassment ... and they are not being adequately addressed...Some degree of physical bullying and intimidation is present across all areas of the organization, including the administration directorates."Physical abuse in the NSWFB has become a critical issue, with most cases manifesting in the initation of new recruits. These initiations require them to remove their clothing and be subject to physical torment and irritation while being watched by other members of the brigade. It is estimated that more then 600 firefighters have witnessed or have experienced physical bullying in the past two years and that this is not exclusive to recruits, but also includes a number of  superintendents and captains. Abuse hot spots have also been identified, with the brigade's Special Operations Unit having the highest percentage of such claims.Despite statements made by the New South Wales Emergency Services Minister, Steve Whan, to take firm action against all involved, a "Boy's Club" mentality continues to pervade the organization, leading to both abuses and the stripping of female firefighters of adequate support, with 26% of female firefights admit to experiencing sexual harassment while 36% have been subject to verbal assaults, obscene gestures and jokes.It was also revealed that in the light of KMPG's investigation that the Independent Commission Against Corruption will launch its own investigation into physical and sexual abuses in the NSWFB.The KPMG report puts forward 14 recommendations which are to be utilised by the Emergency Services Ministry in the hope of reforming the culture within the NSWFB.After being charged on Saturday and having his bail hearing adjourned until today, Indian doctor Mohamed Haneef has been granted bail for allegedly supporting terrorists. The Australian federal government has since cancelled Dr Haneef's work visa, causing him to be held in immigration detention.Haneef was charged with providing support to a terrorist organisation after a SIM card registered to him was found in the possession of an alleged terror bomber in the UK. It is claimed that the two alleged bombers are distant cousins of Dr Haneef's.Dr Haneef was granted AU$10,000 bail in the Brisbane Magistrate's Court where the magistrate said that Haneef had no known links to a terrorist organisation and that there were no allegations that the SIM card had been used in the planned attacks on Glasgow and London.Australian Immigration minister Kevin Andrews said he  believed Dr Haneef had failed a character test, which allows him to cancel Haneef's visa under immigration laws. "I reasonably suspect that he has or has had an association with persons engaged in criminal activity, criminal conduct, namely terrorism in the UK," said Mr Andrews.Mr Andrews said Haneef would be detained in Brisbane pending his charges being dealt until arrangements can be made to move him to Villawood Detention Centre in Sydney.A certificate notifying the government of Haneef's charges will be issued by the Australian Federal Police, which will allow the government to detain Haneef in immigration detention while his charges are being dealt with.Minister Andrews defended his decision claiming it was his responsibility to cancel Haneef's visa. Andrews said that Haneef has or has had an association with people involved in criminal conduct and this constitutes failure of a character test.When questioned on whether or not his decision was an indirect revocation of Haneef's bail the immigration minister said "The magistrate in Brisbane has a set of responsibilities which she has carried out and I'm making no comment whatsoever on the magistrate or any decision made by the magistrate".When Haneef's criminal charges have been dealt with, the minister's move means that he will be deported when he is acquitted or upon the completion of any sentence imposed.Haneef will reappear in court on August 31.A group of 19 people, including local aborigines and Roads and Traffic Authority (RTA) staff, were sprayed by a crop duster in rural Australia today. They were walking the proposed route of a freeway bypass, looking for sites that may have significance to Aboriginal people. The freeway bypass will be part of the Hume Highway, near Coolac in south-west New South Wales. Police are yet to rule out that the dusting was deliberate. A police spokeswoman made a public appeal for information. "We don't know whether they knew the people were there or not so we're appealing for anyone who might have witnessed the incident or knows anything about a low-flying crop-duster in the area to contact police," she said.News available via the web does not (as of this writing) detail the effects of the spraying.  It is assumed that there were no fatalities. ABC Online reports that the pilot of the plane may face charges.Australian Federal Police (AFP) have arrested six people following a breach of security at the secretive Pine Gap Joint Defence Facility in central Australia on Friday.The members of the group Christians Against All Terrorism (CAAT) breached base security at dawn and two of them infiltrated two perimeter fences and scaled a building, before being arrested. Two of the protesters photographed themselves atop a building inside the spy base. A Northern Territory police spokeswoman said three men and two women had been charged over the incident while another woman would be summoned to appear in Alice Springs court next week over obstructing police. The spokeswoman said the activists had allegedly cut holes in the external and internal fences at the defence facility. She said the combined charges carried a maximum penalty of seven years jail.The group claims it was the first break-in of its kind at Pine Gap. The group spoke yesterday of their efforts to conceal a digital camera memory stick in the clothing of key members to avoid the images being confiscated by police.Four of the protesters are from Queensland, one is from New South Wales, and the other is from Victoria. They say they wanted to conduct a citizens inspection of the controversial Pine Gap facility. "We could not allow the US and Australian governments to continue to conceal the role of Pine Gap in the ongoing war in Iraq," said Sean O'Reilly of the group. "It's time the Australian public knew the reality of what is happening on our land."Group member Jessica Morrison claims there is a lot of secrecy surrounding the facility. "So for me it was an attempt to come to a place that I think propagates death and start to proclaim truth," she said.Two of the group were released on bail facing charges, including: unlawfully entering a prohibited area destroying or damaging Commonwealth property; trespassing on Commonwealth land; damaging property under the NT law. A sixth member was arrested for aiding and abetting but was released without charge.Up to 30 police officers were stationed at a roadblock at the turn-off to Pine Gap at 6:00 a.m. local time and Gap staff were ordered to remain in their cars at the roadblock.CAAT member Brian Law, said four of the group split into two groups and entered the base in a co-ordinated movement. He said four members walked 10km through thick scrub and entered the base at 4:00 a.m. local time. Mr Law and the fourth member arrested, former human shield Donna Mulhearn, 37, (taken hostage by militants in Fallujah in Iraq last year) were released.Mr O'Reilly said the group conducted a citizens' inspection in protest at Pine Gap's involvement in the ongoing war in Iraq after the group had been refused official entry by Defence Minister Robert Hill. "We could not allow the US and Australian governments to continue to conceal the role of Pine Gap in the ongoing war in Iraq," Mr O'Reilly said.It was unclear last night whether the group would be charged under the Federal Government's tough new anti-terror laws. They were bailed to face the Alice Springs Magistrates Court next Wednesday.Jon Stanhope, the Australian Capital Territory Chief Minister, is the first Australian state or territory chief to reject the Howard Government's proposed anti-terror legislation in its current state.He said he would not vote into law the ACT's part of the legislation, including extending preventive detention of terror suspects to 14 days, unless there were changes.The Federal Government requires the support of a least four states to give the final legislation the go-ahead. If the Commonwealth proceeds with its laws without the ACT's co-operation - the territory could become the odd jurisdiction out, as the only one without preventive detention for people suspected of planning a terrorist attack."I'm quite happy to change it provided the situation is covered," Mr Howard told reporters in Madang, at the Pacific Islands Forum. "I'm quite relaxed about the final form of the legislation, providing it delivers on the substance of the agreement." Mr Howard said he was not committed to introducing the changes next week, although he wanted them by Christmas.Opposition Leader Kim Beazley, who was outraged that the Government had chosen Melbourne Cup Day as a cover to introduce the Bills, pointed out that the Treasurer and the Prime Minister were at odds.The Rosley Oxley9 Gallery in Sydney, Australia was raided by police over the weekend following complaints of child pornography. The complaints related to an exhibition of works by photographer Bill Henson, which included several photographs of naked pubescent children. Twenty-one of the forty photographs in the exhibition were seized during the raid, and police have announced that charges will be laid under the NSW Commonwealth and Crimes Act for "publishing an indecent article". Digital versions have also been removed from the Gallery's website.Politicians on both sides of the fence spoke out against the exhibition. Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, speaking to the Nine Network, said he found the photos to be "absolutely revolting [...] Whatever the artistic view of the merits of that sort of stuff - frankly I don't think there are any - just allow kids to be kids." His Opposition counterpart, Brendan Nelson, believes that the exhibition "violates the things for which we stand as Australians and indeed as parents".Art experts have supported Henson and defended his work, denying claims of child pornography and exploitation. According to Betty Churcher, a former director of the National Gallery of Australia, "[t]here is absolutely no suggestion of pornography in these photographs". Sydney art dealer Denis Savill hung one of Henson's works, featuring two nudes, in his gallery window beside an Arthur Boyd nude, to "give them something to grizzle about".According to Tony Oxley, husband of gallery owner Roslyn, the gallery's answering machine has recorded several threats to burn the building down. The police action also calls into question the fate of similar works by Henson in other galleries in Australia and around the world.On Sunday July 5, Australian businessman Stern Hu along with three other Rio Tinto employees were arrested by Chinese officials claiming they have evidence that the men damaged China's economy and security. The arrest come after the failed US$19.5 billion bid by state owned Chinalco to obtain an 18% stake in Rio Tinto and during the annual iron ore supply and price negotiations.Tan Yixin, a senior executive of the Chinese steel maker the Shougang Group with close ties to the group, has also been detained for alleged crimes relating to the trade of raw materials. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Qin Gang cautioned Australia against politicising the issue. The maximum penalty for espionage in China is life imprisonment.While Australian Trade Minister Simon Crean prepares to leave for meetings in Beijing over the issue, the Australian Labor Government has called for the opposition parties to discipline Nationals Senator leader Barnaby Joyce over comments linking the failed bid to the arrests as being grossly irresponsible. Opposition leader Malcolm Turnbull called on Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd to contact the Chinese government and demand that Hu, an Australian citizen, be released and granted access to consular officials. On Thursday Xinhua News agency confirmed the arrests, the first official announcement since the group was detained on Sunday. The Xinhua News Agency also reported that a number of Chinese nationals have been detained and authorities are considering further investigations into China's steel production in the Shandong and Hebei provincesAustralian Defence Force Academy (ADFA) cadets Daniel McDonald, 19, and Dylan De Blaquiere, 18, were arrested  and appeared in court Friday after allegations were made that they filmed a female cadet having sex and then broadcasted it over the internet, lying about it afterwards. They were released on bail.The female complainant, 18, stated that while the sex was consensual, the transmission via the chat host Skype to another room on the grounds of the academy, was done without her knowledge. In addition, she stated that photos were taken and "distributed to other people."Police allege that on March 29, the footage captured on Mr. McDonald's webcam was sent via Skype to Mr. De Blaquiere's room where he and five other cadets watched the stream on a laptop computer. McDonald told De Blaquiere in advance. Police say De Blaquiere sent a text message to McDonald saying, "I just had a fuckin sick idea pop into my head, fuck her n film it." The friend replied, "Oh friggen hell is she aware of this or not?" McDonald's answer was "Nope."Mr McDonald said in a Facebook chat with another friend: "I'm about to root a girl n have webcam set up to the boys in another room."McDonald's attorney applied for a suppression order in court yesterday to protect Mr McDonald’s name for reasons of national security, but was the request was denied. The two cadets now face charges of using a "carriage service" to offend. McDonald faces a further charge of committing an act of indecency without consent which carries a maximum penalty of a five-year jail term.Bail has been granted for both men under provisions they do not contact the complainant or any witnesses involved with the case outside regular ADFA classes.When the complainant went public with her allegation, there was a flood of anger from the public. The Australian government in connection with the defence force has responded by launching of a series of investigations into the treatment of women in military service, including systematic bullying and harassment that could reach the point of sexual assault. The ADFA is considering taking action against the two cadets charged in this case, including possible suspension.Robert Penny, 83, yesterday was charged with the murder of his wife Margaret Penny and hairdresser Claire Acocks, twenty four years after their deaths at the Old London Coiffure hair salon in Portland, Victoria in Australia.Mr Penny was charged by homicide detectives after a revived investigation found Penny had disclosed details of the women's deaths to various people, that he could only have known firsthand. He allegedly told Mrs Acocks's husband the morning after her death that she was killed with a comb, and "died very quickly"; police found no weapon at the scene in 1991.The prosecution also alleges Mr Penny revealed details of the murders in phone calls to both his son and daughter in the hours following the attack, again referring to the use of a tail-comb as the weapon. Investigators at the time initially believed there may have been two weapons, and Homicide Detective Senior Constable Tom Hogan told the court "it would have been impossible for him or any of the police to understand the ­nature of the injuries" before an autopsy was carried out.The court also heard evidence of a covertly recorded phone conversation between Mr Penny and his granddaughter in February 2014, in which he said "Would a hitman pick up a comb and kill two women?". Mr Penny was released on bail due to poor health, under conditions including surrender of his passport. He is due to face court again in July.Australia's biggest charity organisations are refusing to cooperate with the Howard government's welfare reform rules. The federal government expects about 18,000 people a year will lose their payments for eight weeks when the new welfare-to-work regime comes into force on July 1.Only 23 organisations have signed up to a government registry to "financially case manage" the most vulnerable unemployed, who will be left without income under tougher rules. The Brotherhood of St Laurence has told Fairfax newspapers it will not participate because it believes the welfare shake-up is unjust.About 18,000 people a year, according to the Government, are expected to lose their benefit for infringements of job search rules. Those with dependants, and those deemed "exceptionally vulnerable,"  will be eligible for case management by a charity on the government register.But the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the St Vincent de Paul Society have refused to register.  The moral dilemma of whether to become an agent for a policy some believe is "unjust" may be contemplated by the Salvation Army, and others.Charities will be paid $650 to manage each eligible unemployed person it assigns them, the Government has said. It wants charities to assess a person's "essential" expenses and notify Centrelink, which would then decide whether or not to pay the bills.Director of UnitingCare Australia Lin Hatfield Dodds said she did not expect many of the 400 agencies in her network to sign up to be case managers. Mission Australia has also not registered. Sue Leppert, executive director of Anglicare Australia, said many of her member agencies would definitely not register and others were grappling with the issue.Many Australian charities strongly oppose the policy of stripping all income from unemployed people for infringements. There is much concern that sole parents and many disabled people will be diverted from specific pensions to the Newstart Allowance. They will then be subject to stringent job search rules, potential infringements and harsh penalties.Charities also have been alarmed that under the new policy, people can immediately lose their payment for eight weeks if they refuse a job offer, are dismissed for misconduct, or are voluntarily unemployed.The executive director of the Brotherhood of St Laurence Tony Nicholson said the policy was unjust. "First they suffer an eight-week suspension of payment, and to add insult to injury they have to justify to some case manager their expenditure on their meagre income."Sole parents whose youngest child has turned six, and disabled people who are assessed as capable of working 15 hours per week, will no longer be granted a pension under the Welfare to Work plan.At the launch of a nation-wide advertising campaign for the government reform, Minister for Human Services Joe Hockey said: "the advertising campaign is part of an education process designed to encourage more people on income support to move into work." "The Howard Government is investing $3.7 billion to deliver greater employment services and other assistance, including rehabilitation, to those people required to look for work," said Minister Hockey.A spokesman for the Minister said the Government was trying to ensure "rents will be paid and kids won't get tossed out of home" if parents failed to meet their job search obligations.About 100 people protested the detention and treatment of 13 men accused of terrorism offences and held at the Barwon maximum security prison, in the state of Victoria, Australia. The protestors bussed and drove 56km from Melbourne out to the Barwon maximum security prison to voice their disapproval of the treatment of the 13 men accused of terror offences who are currently being held in the Acacia Unit of the prison. Some of the accused have been held in solitary confinement for 6 months up to and during their trial.The group Civil Rights Defence organised the event with family members of the accused and news reporters as a peaceful protest. A small group of about 15 police officers awaited the arrival of the group. The police said that their main concern was the health and safety of everyone as the protest was being held next to a busy road. Officers only approached when the Country Fire Authority was summoned by a passerby to put out an open camp fire, as there was fire restriction in effect in the area. The fire fighters were met with laughter and sarcastic applause. Enclosed fires and barbeques were considered acceptable.The men being held are Nacer Benbirka, Shane Gregory Kent, Aiman Joud, Fadl Sayadi, Hany Taha, Amer Haddara Izzydeen Atik, Abdullah Meri, Shoue Hammoud, Bassem Raad, Ezzit Raad, Ahmed Raad and Majed Raad. In a statement read at the protest, one of the accused and his wife (Eman Abdou and Shane Kent) said they were upset at the Australian media for participating in lying to the Australian public and the government for the way they have treated the accused. "I believe the conditions out at the Barwon Prison Acacua Unit are oppressive and inhumane. Furthermore I am upset at the Australian media for participating in lying to the Australian public. These men have a right to a fair trial, and everyone is innocent until proven guilty," the statement read.The statement also went on say that the limited legal visits were often shortened and that the best treated accused are in solitary confinement for 18 hours a day while some are in solitary confinement consistently. Omar Mehri, the brother of one of the accused spoke at the day's event and talked about verbal harassment and hate mail he and his family have received. He also talked of his brother being amazed to see grass after 5 months.Speakers at the event said the current laws used to prosecute murderers and other criminals should be used to prosecute terrorist suspects and had the same sentiments as Eman Abdou and Shane Kent. They said the laws were unjust and the treatment of the accused was cruel and unusual, constituting torture under the terms of the UN charter. Omar Merhi, brother of one of the detained said in a statement "My brother and the other arrested men are confused and want to know why they are in Australia's highest security unit for simply practising their religion."Conservative commentator Andrew Bolt has been found in breach of the Racial Discrimination Act, following a pair of newspaper articles in 2009 where Bolt criticised fair-skinned people identifying as Aborigines.Australia's Federal Court Justice Mordecai Bromberg said "I am satisfied that fair-skinned Aboriginal people (or some of them) were reasonably likely ... to have been offended, insulted, humiliated or intimidated by the imputations conveyed by the newspaper articles," Justice Bromberg said. "People should be free to fully identify with their race without fear of public disdain or loss of esteem for so identifying."The articles, titled "It's so hip to be black" and "White fellas in the black", were published by the Herald Sun and Weekly Times in 2009, in addition to two blog posts published on the Herald Sun's website.The nine plaintiffs were jubilant following delivery of the verdict. Taking legal action against Mr Bolt were former ATSIC member Geoff Clark, academic Larissa Behrendt, native title expert Graham Atkinson, academic Wayne Atkinson, lawyer Mark McMillan, activist Pat Eatock and artist Bindi Cole. They argued Bolt's articles offended, upset and demeaned them while implying they identified as Aboriginal Australians for personal gain.Bolt's lawyer, Neil Young, argued in court that the articles were a genuine reflection of his client's beliefs and were published in the public interest. "Everything that's said, even if it's expressed colourfully, is rationally related to a thesis that's a matter of public interest," Mr Young had said.Bolt said his writings were fair and within the provisions of free speech laws. Ron Merkel, QC, for the complainants, said his clients did not target free speech, stating that while Bolt is free to express his views, he should not have attacked the nine individuals named in the articles.Justice Bromberg told the court Bolt's articles would have offended a reasonable member of the Aboriginal community, adding that the articles were factually incorrect and not written with good faith. "I am satisfied that each of Mr Bolt and the Herald & Weekly Times engaged in conduct which contravened section 18c of the Racial Discrimination Act."Bolt described the verdict as "a terrible day for free speech in this country," adding "It is particularly a restriction on the freedom of all Australians to discuss multiculturalism and how people identify themselves,"Ms Eatock, a prominent activist and the chief plaintiff, said she was not confident of receiving an apology from Mr Bolt. "I will never get an apology from Mr Bolt. He made that clear giving his evidence earlier in the year," she said. "But we will, I hope, get some sort of acknowledgment through the press that what he wrote was just unacceptable, totally unacceptable. He set out to offend from the word go and in fact he acknowledged that in his evidence."According to the highest ranking police officer in New South Wales, the cast and crew of Australian TV show, The Chaser's War on Everything could have been shot during a prank staged in Sydney where they breached APEC security.The comedians staged a fake motorcade to gain access to the APEC restricted area in Sydney's CBD. It is believed that the motorcade was waved through security checkpoints on Macquarie Street and ended up just metres from the hotel where United States President George W. Bush was staying. Police moved in on the group when one of the pranksters emerged from a vehicle dressed as Osama bin Laden.Police commissioner Andrew Scipione said the prank could have resulted in someone being injured. "The reality is... (they) put security services in a position where they might have had to take an action no one would want." "We have snipers deployed around the city. They weren't there for show, they mean business, that's what they were there for," said Mr Scipione.Mr Scipione was annoyed that the stunt had been carried out. He said "I'm angry, I'm very angry that this stunt happened, it was a very dangerous stunt." The commissioner also said that the comedians had already been warned about carrying out pranks during APEC. "The people that were involved were told - we told them, we sent them maps, ... We made it very clear that they shouldn't do stunts, particularly those that were going to be dangerous," said Mr Scipione.Neil Fergus, senior executive for Intelligent Risks and former intelligence chief for the Sydney Olympics spoke out against those responsible for the prank. He reinforced that the prank could have ended up in someone being hurt and commended the police for dealing with the situation in the way they did."People can talk over each other on radios and there can be confusion, so the police response - I think - was terrific," he said. "And thank God it was what it was. You've only got to look at the experience that a very professional police service had in London when a young Brazilian was tragically shot by anti-terrorism forces.""So I think the police are to be commended with the professional way that they did identify the incursion, the restraint that they showed in handling it and the fact that what we're talking about today is a bad and irresponsible joke, instead of a more tragic set of circumstances."The show's executive producer Morrow denied placing anyone in danger."Was it irresponsible? I wouldn't think so. Hard to say," he said. "No, no. We had no intention of harming anyone. Sorry guys ... Lucky it was us and not Al Qaeda."The Australian Federal Government has indicated that it will overhaul copyright law in 2006. The changes will legalise the recording of television shows and the right to transfer CDs to portable music devices.The reforms, instigated by Attorney-General Phillip Ruddock aim to add "fair use" clauses for personal use.A spokeswoman for Mr Ruddock said the Government was close to finalising draft laws which would allow people to copy music from CDs legitimately to their own portable music devices and tape television to watch later.At present both "time shifting" (recording a television show to watch later) and "format shifting" (copying a legally owned CD to another format such as MP3 for play on a portable device) are illegal in Australia. While the Australian Federal Police do not pursue offenders, it still must act upon every complaint.It is unknown whether the new laws will force a levy on blank CDs and portable music devices as they did when the laws were introduced in Canada.On Wednesday, Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced Australian cricketers David Warner and Steve Smith were banned from this year's Indian Premier League (IPL) after the ball tampering incident in a Cape Town test match versus South Africa.The ban imposed by the Committee of Administrators, appointed by the Indian Supreme Court, came a day after Cricket Australia (CA) announced Warner and Smith were banned from international as well as domestic cricket in Australia for a year for breaking Cricket Australia's code of conduct — violating spirit of the game — per Article 2.3.5, and Cameron Bancroft received a similar ban from CA for nine months.In a statement, BCCI said, "The BCCI hopes that the cricketers participating in the IPL hold the highest regard for the Spirit of Cricket and Code of Conduct for Players and Match Officials." This dissolved AU$2.4 million contracts of the two. Smith and Warner had vacated their positions as Rajasthan Royals' and Sunrisers Hyderabad's captains earlier.BCCI's President CK Khanna, IPL Chairman Rajeev Shukla and BCCI Secretary Amitabh Choudhary were consulted by the Committee of Administrators for the ban.Rajasthan Royals named Indian batsman Ajinkya Rahane as the new captain, while Sunrisers Hyderabad announced New Zealand's Kane Williamson as the captain. Both the franchise are allowed to make replacements, BCCI had said in the statement. Warner was the highest run-scorer in last year's IPL and won the 2016 edition of IPL with Hyderabad. This year's IPL is to start on April 7.Cameron Bancroft was banned for nine months for actually tampering with the match ball, instructed by David Warner. Bancroft later mislead the match officials when he was caught tampering with the ball. The sanctions by CA include Warner never to be considered for Australia's captain for demonstrating and instructing a junior player how to tamper with the ball. Bancroft, and captain Steve Smith, who knew about the misconduct, but did not act to prevent it, as well as tried to cover up the matter, may be considered for the captaincy after two years.Bancroft, who was seen rubbing the match ball with something, later identified as sandpaper, said, "I'm not proud of what's happened and I have to live with the consequences and the damage to my own reputation that comes with". Initially, when Bancroft was seen tampering with the ball, he lied to on-field match umpires Richard Illingworth and Nigel Llong that the instrument used was sticky tape, rather than sandpaper, and he was using it to apply granules to the ball. Bancroft said, "I saw an opportunity to potentially use some tape and get some granules from the rough patches on the wicket and I guess try to change the ball condition [...] It didn't work. The umpires didn't change the ball. Once I was sighted on the screen having done that I panicked quite a lot and that obviously resulted in me shoving [the tape] down my trousers." Sandpaper is prohibited to be used with the match ball, however it is used to smooth the cricket bat.Smith said the decision to change the ball was made during Day 3's lunch break. Eventually, South Africa went on to win the match by 322 runs as they lead the series 2–1. For altering the ball conditions, the International Cricket Council (ICC) fined Bancroft 75% of the match wage. Bancroft violated ICC's Article 2.2.9, "changing the condition of the ball".On Thursday, Warner posted a tweet apologising the cricket fans. He said, "Mistakes have been made which damaged cricket. I apologise for my part and take responsibility of it." On social media, Steve Smith said, "I made a serious error of judgement and I now understand the consequences. It was a failure of my leadership. I will do everything I can to make up for my mistake and the damage it has caused".CA named Tim Paine as the captain on Tuesday. The three sanctioned were sent back to Australia on Wednesday. Glenn Maxwell, Joe Burns and Matthew Renshaw were called for the team as replacements. Bancroft, Smith and Warner can appeal the sanctions within one week. The sanctioning CA board consisted of former Australian Test players Mark Taylor and Michael Kasprowicz as well as Cricket Australia's Chairman David Peever, Earl Eddings, Dr Bob Every, John Harnden, Tony Harrison, Jacquie Hey, and Michelle Tredenick.Australian David Hicks was released Saturday from Yatala Labour Prison in Adelaide, South Australia.Hicks, who until May 2007 had been held for five years at the U.S. Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba, was serving out his remaining sentence in an Australian jail. At a U.S. war crimes tribunal, Hicks pleaded guilty to providing material support to a listed terrorist organisation and was sentenced to seven years in prison. As part of the plea agreement, all but nine months of the sentence was suspended and in May of 2007, Hicks was transferred to Yatala.A contentious part of his sentence was a ban placed on Hicks to prevent him from speaking with the media for a period of one year from the time he pleaded guilty, which was in March, 2007. On his release Saturday, Hicks indicated that he intended to comply with the suppression order."It's my intention to honour this agreement as I don't want to do anything that might result in my return there," said Hicks in a written statement read by his lawyer, David McLeod. "So for now, I will limit what I have to say - I will say more at a later time."A small group of supporters waited outside of Yatala and cheered as his car drove away. In his statement, Hicks had thanked his supporters for "the huge debt of gratitude that I owe the Australian public for getting me home." He added, "I will not forget or let you down."At his trial, Hicks admitted he attended training camps in Afghanistan, conducted surveillance of the U.S. Embassy in Kabul and revealed that he had met Osama bin Laden, leader of Al-Qaeda. He had participated in fighting against the U.S. and its allies in Afghanistan in late 2001, and was caught while trying to flee the area.On his release from prison Saturday, Hicks was driven to an undisclosed location in Adelaide. His lawyer said that Hicks fears for the safety of himself and his family. "David is concerned about the safety of his family from people who hold views he was purported to share," said David McLeod. "There are also a number of far-right nationalist groups in Australia who have spoken out about David."Terry Hicks, David's father, said his son was pleased to be free. "He's on a high, he seems alright but I suppose in the quiet times everything will come back.""It's now up to him," said Terry Hicks. "He now has got to get on with his life."Australia's Department of Defence spent thousands of dollars on controversial development seminars, Australian media reported Wednesday. The seminars are run by a San Francisco, California-based training company called Landmark Education. The company evolved from Erhard Seminars Training "est", and has faced criticism regarding its techniques and its use of unpaid labor.Australia's Defence Minister Warren Snowdon said that the government is in the process of reviewing Defence Department expenditures on career development. "We're in the process now of doing an audit, completely unrelated with anything to do with Landmark, which is being undertaken into learning and development to make sure that they meet our needs. ... We have to be very sure that the courses that people do undertake are relevant, appropriate and indeed in line with what community expectations might be," said Snowdon in an appearance on ABC Radio.The Australian and Australia's ABC News reported that Landmark Education had been listed in France as a "possible cult" in the mid 1990s. When asked about this on ABC Radio, a spokeswoman for the company in the United States, Deborah Beroset, responded: "What happened in France was that a commission established by the French parliament issued a report in which they listed almost 200 organisations as being possible cults ... We were never contacted. We were inappropriately included in that list". In a program which aired Wednesday, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation radio program AM reported that Australia's Defence Department spent at least AUD12,270 of taxpayer funds to send government employees to Landmark Education courses. According to AM, the Defence Department said it does not appear that further funds have been sent to Landmark Education since 2004. In a statement released by the Defence Department, the government stated: "A search of Defence records does not indicate exactly how many individuals attended courses with this training provider, however it is believed it was a small number of individuals. ... Defence has been unable to determine individual reasons for why groups within Defence choose this training provider."AM also reported that the use of unpaid labor by Landmark Education "has attracted the attention of the US and French governments," and that some individuals in the mental health field have accused the company of brainwashing. When asked about the allegations by mental health experts that Landmark Education's techniques amounted to brainwashing, Deborah Beroset responded: "Well, there is absolutely no credence to that whatsoever."In a March 9 article in the Herald Sun, Peter Rolfe reported that taxpayer money was used to send at least 37 police and government staff from Victoria, Australia to seminars run by Landmark Education. Police and Emergency Services Minister Bob Cameron said that "Decisions on the appropriateness of staff attending courses by Landmark Education are made by individual managers who remain best-placed to assess the development needs of their staff," but State Liberal MP Murray Thompson told the Herald Sun that the funds should have been put towards fighting crime. Apple Inc., Reebok, and Mercedes-Benz have sent employees to Landmark Education seminars, according to a spokeswoman for Landmark.In October 2006, Landmark Education took legal action against Google, YouTube, the Internet Archive, and a website owner in Queensland, Australia in attempts to remove criticism of its products from the Internet. The company sought a subpoena under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in an attempt to discover the identity of an anonymous critic who uploaded a 2004 French documentary of the Landmark Forum to the Internet. "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" (Voyage to the Land of the New Gurus) was produced by Pièces à Conviction, a French investigative journalism news program. The Electronic Frontier Foundation represented the anonymous critic and the Internet Archive, and Landmark withdrew its subpoena in November 2006 in exchange for a promise from the anonymous critic not to repost the video.Landmark Education is descended from Erhard Seminars Training, also called "est", which was founded by Werner Erhard. est began in 1971, and Erhard's company Werner Erhard and Associates repackaged the course as "The Forum" in 1985. Associates of Erhard bought the license to his "technology" and incorporated Landmark Education in California in 1991.The Australian Defence Force could face a class-action lawsuit in light of recent allegations of a male cadet broadcasting himself having sex with a female cadet to six other cadets at the Australian Defence Force Academy.This move is in light of similar investigations taking place in other branches of the defence force including the navy where a man told the Vietnam Veterans Association he was beaten repeatedly on the HMAS Leeuwin during the 1970's. The beatings included being sexually abused with a mop handle according to the man. Advocates believe that the recent sex scandal could result in 'hundreds' of other victims coming forward.Senator Nick Xenophon has called on Foreign Minister Stephen Smith to make inquires into the sexual nature of the ADFA a priority of the government. Mr. Xenophon is also considering a class action on behalf of all victims.Both the VVA and Mr. Xenophon have called on other victims to come forward.Convicted Australian drug trafficker Van Nguyen will be executed at Singapore's Changi prison tomorrow at 6:00am SGT (8:00pm tonight UTC, 9:00am AEST). Nguyen was caught with 396.2 grams of heroin, more than 25 times the amount that mandates a death sentence.Following an appeal to the Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong by Australian Prime Minister John Howard, Nguyen was able to hold hands with his mother and brother as he said goodbye for the last time. Supporters will hold a vigil outside the prison before his death.On December 2, Nguyen will be handcuffed and taken to the gallows in Singapore's Changi Prison to be hanged for drug trafficking.On Thursday, the Australian Federal Court ordered Internet service providers to block websites which infringe copyright. The court required five websites be blocked — Pirate Bay, Torrentz, isoHunt, Torrenthound, and SolarMovie.In the first case of site blocking under new Australian legislation, the court asked the companies to block access to these websites within fifteen business days. The ISPs are free to choose the method of blocking; options include DNS blocking, blocking IP addresses and URL blocking.The court has asked the copyright holders to pay up to A$50 to the ISPs for each domain to be blocked. After successful blocking of these websites they are to be replaced by a landing page showing an "access denied" message as well as a notice the website "infringes or facilitates the infringement of copyright."Peter Tonagh, the chief executive of copyright holders Foxtel said, "This judgment is a major step in both directly combating piracy and educating the public that accessing content through these sites is not OK, in fact it is theft".Graham Bruke, co-executive of the other copyright holder in the case, Village Roadshow, in October called people who pirate the copyrighted material "leeches and thieves" and compared them to heroin sellers. Foxtel and Village Roadshow plan to block over 50 websites.The operators of SolarMovie and the torrent websites did not attend the court hearing.Various Linux distributions like Debian, Ubuntu and OpenSUSE allow users to download the freely licensed operating system through torrents.Australian Federal Police officers reportedly raided the home in Argenton, West of Newcastle, New South Wales of a man suspected of distibuting software to enable unauthorised access to pay TV services Foxtel and Austar.A spokesperson for the Australian Federal Police said that officers seized computer equipment, including an "external hardware drive". The spokesperson said police were assisted by Foxtel's fraud invesigators and computer forensic experts from Ferrier Hodgson.Debra Richards, Executive Director of the Australian Subscription Television Association, the organisation which represents the interests of Australian pay TV service providers, said, "Industry members are working cooperatively through ASTRA to address a problem that results in lost revenue and resources that would otherwise be used to grow the Australian television and production industries." "The real victims here are the consumers who are being hoodwinked into being involved in a criminal activity, often paying more than they would otherwise for a legitimate service," she said.The Australian Federal Police (AFP) has stated that the whistle-blowing website known as WikiLeaks has committed no crimes in Australia by publishing over 250,000 United States diplomatic cables. An investigation by the AFP into the release of the cables revealed that Wikileaks had not broken any laws under Australian jurisdiction."[The AFP has] not identified any criminal offences where Australia has jurisdiction and as a result have not commenced an investigation," said Robert McClelland, attorney-general of Australia in a statement to the press. "As has previously been stated, given the documents published to date are classified by the United States, the primary jurisdiction for any investigation into the matter remains the United States."The investigation into Wikileaks actions came after the Australian Government referred the release of U.S. diplomatic cables to the AFP. McClelland stated that the Government's reaction to the WikiLeaks issue was "prudent." Further cables that the Government queries the legality of would also be forwarded to the AFP as well. He also added that the government remains "concerned" about the situation and "unauthorised and irresponsible distribution of classified material."Controversy had also been raised today after Julia Gillard changed her stance on the release of the cables from calling the action "illegal," to calling it "grossly irresponsible," after the AFP had released their findings. Ms Gillard said at a press-conference in Sydney today that she did not intend to say that the release of the cables was illegal, but that their theft was. Deputy leader of the opposition (Liberal Party) Julie Bishop said there was no room for Ms Gillard to "weasel out of it.""She is a lawyer. She well knows about the presumption of innocence," said Bishop. She added that the prime minister's legal background did not warrant her comments. Calls have also been voiced by the Green's Senator, Scott Ludlam, for Ms Gillard to retract her comments.Wikileaks has been the subject of past investigations in Australia. In March of 2009, the proposed Australian Communications and Media Authority internet blacklist was leaked to the website. That matter was also referred to the AFP, who later abandoned pursuing criminal charges."It's my understanding from the AFP that they considered the prospects of success under their guidelines, but it wasn't sufficient to get a prosecution," said Chairman Chris Chapman during a Senate Estimates Committee meeting in February.The Australia Federal Government has passed wide-ranging new counter-terrorism laws that civil opponents warned will disintegrate civil liberties. The federal parliament has agreed to laws aimed at stifling home-grown terrorists. The terrorism legislation was rushed through the Senate yesterday evening after the Government gagged debate on the bill. The new laws enable police and intelligence agencies to detain suspects without charge for up to 14 days in solitary confinement. Authorities can also restrict and control movements of suspects, including fitting them with electronic tags for up to 12 months. Prime Minister John Howard introduced the package after the July 2005 bombings in London. Federal Justice Minister Chris Ellison told the Senate the laws would give authorities the necessary tools to tackle terrorism, while being consistent with international human rights obligations.John North, president of the Law Council of Australia, an outspoken critic of the package, said lawyers would monitor the government's use of its new powers. "We want governments to know that almost 50,000 lawyers will be watching closely to make sure the new laws are not implemented at the expense of our civil liberties," Mr North said. He also said in a letter addressed to Prime Minister John Howard that "The legal profession believes that the ramifications of these laws have the potential to be as terrifying as terrorism itself." This following a media campaign launched by the Law Council in newspapers vilifying the new legislation as "draconian".The package, broadly supported by the opposition Labor Party, gives police tougher powers to stop, search and seize evidence from suspects and enables more close circuit television cameras to be used to monitor public places. The new legislation also updates sedition laws and allow greater use of security cameras.The Australian Greens, the Democrats and the Law Council accuse the Labor Party of selling out civil rights by supporting the bill, which will give unprecedented powers to police and spy agencies. Australian Greens leader Bob Brown condemned the laws. "We are in a new period of McCarthyism and we need to know that, and understand it, and worry that this time it won't be turned around, that citizens, using a law like this, will be brought before courts for political reasons, not security reasons," he told parliament.Following some amendments, the Commonwealth Ombudsman will be given more power to oversee detention, detainees will have greater access to relatives and police will need to satisfy a greater number of grounds to impose limits on who a suspect can contact. The Australian Law Reform Commission will review the sedition provisions next year.Civil libertarians and people who oppose Australia's involvement in Iraq also have protested. The proposed laws are "horrific for journalists," senior Fairfax journalist David Marr said. "Firstly, there's a completely secret new regime of putting people in preventive detention — that's entirely secret," he said. "If we report it, if we report that people have gone into preventive detention, we're going to go individually to jail for five to seven years, something like that. Even if we report what happened to people in detention, we go to jail. "Australian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission president John Von Doussa says the proposed counter-terrorism laws are the first step towards a police state. The legislation gives police extraordinary powers to detain people without charge, but does not set out means by which the application of those powers can be checked or appealed, he said. Prime Minister John Howard rejects suggestions the Government acted in undue haste by pushing a range of striking new laws through parliament before Christmas, despite public outcry over inadequate scrutiny and the gagging of parliamentary debate on many of the bills. Defence Minister, Senator Robert Hill says the government has a responsibility to protect Australians. "Out of the British bombing, we went back and looked at our laws. We believed that we needed further powers to protect Australians, said Mr Hill. "Obviously, we want to put them through as quickly as possible because we are addressing a terrorist threat."The Australian Senate has passed legislation to force a national nuclear waste dump on the Northern Territory (NT). Despite opposition from Aboriginal land owners, the NT government, environment groups and Labor the Federal Government can now officially build a nuclear waste repository in the NT after the legislation for the waste dump passed the Senate today. The Radioactive Waste Management Bill was passed with 34 in favour and 29 against.The two bills override the Northern Territory's objection to the radioactive waste dump after the South Australian government opposed a previous preferred site near Woomera. According to Federal Labor opposition MP, Warren Snowdon, it is the first time since 1978 that Territory law has been overridden. "It's an absolute disaster and it shows contempt for the Northern Territory community, it shows absolute contempt for land use planning in the Northern Territory," he said. The Territory Labor Government has been a resolute opponent of the plan, saying a nuclear dump will expose residents to a new security threat. The Chief Minister of the Northern Territory, Clare Martin, says transporting nuclear waste to the Territory would make it vulnerable to terrorists looking to make a dirty bomb. Ms Martin says experts on the issue have raised concerns about security at a national nuclear waste facility.She says scientific debate played no part in the Federal Government's decision to build a dump in the Territory and nuclear waste could be a target while it is being moved to the Territory. "You'd have to look at how far around a country you're going to be transporting things like intermediate nuclear level waste," she said. "And if you're going to put such a nuclear facility in the middle of central Australia you've got to get the waste there by road and that's thousands of kilometres." She says the Commonwealth should not expect any cooperation from her Government.The Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation's (ANSTO) Craig Pierce says there would be no point trying to use low level waste to make a dirty bomb because the waste is mostly gloves and labcoats. "It simply would make no sense to get this material and want to blow it up," he said."It would have no impact at all. On the intermediate level, that will have a high level of security when it is transported. It won't be transported for very far on road, on land, and it will have an appropriate level of security." The Australian Conservation Foundation said it expected community anger would escalate, now the bills had passed. "Last year the federal government gave the people of the NT an absolute categorical assurance there would be no dump in the NT," ACF nuclear campaigner Dave Sweeney said. "Today they have broken this promise and bulldozed through bad law in an attempt to gag community concern.""Under the government's proposal, 130 truckloads of radioactive waste would be driven from Sydney's Lucas Heights reactor, through NSW, to an as-yet unnamed site in the NT in the first year alone, with dumping to continue for decades," he said.The Australian Greens say the legislation could be manipulated to allow waste from other countries to be stored in the Northern Territory. The party is angry that amendments they proposed were not considered when the bill was passed. Greens Senator Rachel Siewert says the legislation is not strong enough. "In the bill, there were some provisions to supposedly keep out international waste," she said. "We don't think they go far enough and that they are open to manipulation and interpretation. So what we were trying to do is absolutely positively ensure that international waste will not be brought into this facility."The NT Environment Centre's Gary Scott has hinted at civil disobedience similar to that seen during the anti-uranium mining protests at Jabiluka. "I don't think Territorians are going to take this lying down unless that is in front of bulldozers," Mr Scott said.The Centre’s Peter Robertson has emphasised the importance of the waste dump for the federal government to realise its plans for a second nuclear reactor. "If we get the dump, Sydney gets the reactor". Establishing a national waste dump is a precondition for the operating license for the proposed OPAL nuclear reactor which will replace Lucas Heights in Sydney.Robertson pointed out that the issue of waste is creating an international crisis for the nuclear industry, with no storage plans for the more than 250,000 tonnes of high-level radioactive waste currently in existence. A detailed study of three Defence sites - Fishers Ridge, 43 km south-east of Katherine, Harts Range, 100 km north-east of Alice Springs, and Mount Everard, 27 km north-west of Alice Springs - will be conducted next year, with the facility to be operational by 2011.Traditional owners of Athenge Alhere - an estate group of the Arrernte Nation - have voiced their dissent to the nuclear dump and say they don’t want waste from Sydney's Lucas Heights nuclear reactor brought to their land. "Because the land we take care of, because all our ancestors lived in this land and hunted on this land as well, so it's mainly because of the animals and the next generation of our kids and their children, so we still say no," traditional owner Benedict Stevens said.Coalition MPs, including Northern Territory Country Liberal senator Nigel Scullion, secured a number of amendments to the bill. They included the ability of the NT government and indigenous land councils to decide on other site options, a prohibition on the storage of high level and overseas waste and the free storage of the NT's own waste.The South Australian Government says tenacity staved off a nuclear dump on its land. SA Environment Minister, John Hill, says there could be a federal election before the facility's finally built. "It will take them some time to construct this facility and that gives you some opportunities," he said. Mr Hill says waste should be stored closer to Lucas Heights in Sydney where it is generated. Radioactive waste is currently stored at over 100 locations across the country, including in hospital basements in major capital cities and at universities.Update: NT farmers have threatened to take action if a site near their farms is selected for the dump. Fishers Ridge, south of Katherine, is one of three Commonwealth sites earmarked for the facility. Sharon Shaw's farm 12 kilometres from the Fishers Ridge site. "The thing that worries us the most, it's on top of a Tindal Aquifer which really concerns us in the fact that there's many sink holes that turn up every wet as the ground is always shifting," she said. "Any normal person without an environmental degree or anything would realise that this ground is unstable."Australia's federal government has come under fire by prominent human rights lawyer Julian Burnside, Q.C. for using migration laws to circumvent the release of Mohamed Haneef after he was granted bail in Brisbane Magistrate's Court. Haneef is alleged to have provided support to a terrorist organisation, for leaving his mobile phone SIM card with Sabeel Ahmed who allegedly had knowledge of the Glasgow attacks. Haneef's lawyers have also attacked the government's decision saying it will make it more difficult for Haneef to mount a defence should he be held in immigration detention. His lawyers are considering delaying posting his bail surety until his visa issues are resolved. This will allow Haneef to stay in Brisbane near them, his lawyers say. They have also indicated that they will appeal the government's decision.Australian immigration minister Kevin Andrews announced yesterday that he had used his powers under the Migration Act to cancel Haneef's visa as he had failed a character check.Mr Burnside is sceptical of Mr Andrews' motives, claiming the government would not have cancelled Haneef's visa if he had not been bailed. He said Mr Andrew's moves amount to the government interfering in the judicial process.“They want to keep him here for trial. They waited to cancel his visa until they saw whether he got bail,” Mr Burnside told Southern Cross Broadcasting.“If he didn’t get bail then they weren’t going to cancel the visa."“This is a misuse of power in bad faith for the explicit purpose of trumping a magistrate’s order that he should be let out on bail."“I think it’s disgraceful that Andrews has lent himself to doing it, because as a lawyer, he ought to know better,” said Mr Burnside.Mr Burnside attacked the government, claiming its decision to cancel Haneef's visa tramples on some of the key foundations of democracy. He further alleged that the government was acting hypocritically. “We are supposed to be a democratic society. I thought the war against terrorism was an effort to preserve our democracy. But here we are trashing it left, right and centre in the name of saving it.”Burnside also questioned the government's anti-terror laws, saying it was  unusual for a person to be charged with giving someone a SIM card twelve months earlier.Queensland's Premier Peter Beattie called on the immigration minister to explain the reason for Haneef's visa being cancelled. Mr Beattie said that the Australian people believed the government was being heavy-handed."But clearly the Federal Minister for Immigration has acted in relation to particular information from the federal police.""If there's something they have become aware of since this investigation started that's not the subject of the charge, then they should share that with the Australian people," Mr Beattie told the media.The Australian Government today announced terms of a new class of visa which is aimed at reducing the number of immigration detainees locked up indefinitely, after years of criticism by human rights watchdogs.The new Return Pending Bridging Visa allows for release of detainees held for over three years and who have exhausted all rights for appeal, but who cannot be removed from Australia. In the community they will be provided income support, Medicare, maternity and child benefits, rent assistance and permission to work, and will be required to periodically report to authorities.Senator Amanda Vanstone, Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs said, "The new Bridging visa will only be granted to a relatively small number of detainees where ... it is not reasonably practicable to achieve removal in the short term and where the detainee undertakes to cooperate fully with removal from Australia, once that becomes practicable.""The new bridging visa will not be available to detainees with current visa applications, or who are challenging decisions, either through review or courts," the Minister said."The new bridging visa category does not apply to failed asylum seekers on Nauru. Management of that caseload remains completely separate from onshore cases." And the visa applies only at the Minister's discretion.A recent High Court decision has left it in the Government's hands to resolve the issue of indefinite detention, maintaining that under the law there was nothing to prevent immigrants who could not be sent to another country and are not accepted by the Australian Government, from being imprisoned forever.The change is thought to allow release of up to 100 detainees currently held, although it is not a blanket release for all detainees held over three years, for example the longest-serving detainee, Peter Qasim who has been held for seven years, will not be eligible.Ms Vanstone claims Mr Qasim has not co-operated with the department's attempts to establish his identity. India will only take him if it can be proven that he is Indian - and without any evidence available except his language, he has been unable to return. But according to Ms Vanstone, all it requires is "further co-operation from Mr Qasim" - therefore he remains in detention.Qasim wrote in an open letter in September: “I have asked 80 countries to take me but all have refused. I have committed no crime but I have a life sentence. Please give me freedom. I would work hard with a grateful heart. But I cannot live imprisoned forever without hope.”An independent investigation, headed by former Victorian Police Commissioner Neil Comrie, has revealed that Australian immigration department officials wrongfully deported the Australian citizen Vivian Solon to the Philippines. Ms Solon was deported in March 2001, after falling under suspicion as an illegal immigrant while she was in hospital after an accident. She was still in poor health when she was deported, and her five year old son was left behind in foster care. The mistake was not officially recognised until April 2005.Senior officials knew of the mistake in July 2003, but neglected to correct it. In the end, it was only through the efforts of her former husband, Robert Young, who persistently pursued her case that it was eventually acted on. Some senior officials are being investigated on this issue, however, the ministers responsible for the Department -- now Amanda Vanstone, but prior to October 2003 it was Phillip Ruddock -- denied any responsibility. When asked if he felt any responsibility Mr Ruddock answered "No, none at all."This incident is one of a number of immigration controversies that have occurred in Australia. Cornelia Rau, an Australian citizen, was accidentally imprisoned in a detention centre when the immigration department suspected her of being an illegal immigrant. The report indicates that 20 other Australian citizens have also been unjustly imprisoned by the immigration department.Western Australian district court judge Shauna Deane has found that a Muslim woman must remove her burqa in order to testify with regard to an Islamic school's alleged receiving of state and federal government funding in a fraudulent manner.The woman, identified only as 'Tasneem', was deemed unable to wear her traditional coverings despite feeling uncomfortable removing them in public. Judge Shauna Deane found that it would not be suitable for 'Tasneem' to offer evidence with her face covered, stating that the need to maintain a fair trial is consistent with allowing the jury to view and interpret cues from the face of a witness.The judge went on to say that her findings should not set a precedent for future cases and that any future rulings regarding the facial and head coverings should be based on the independent findings of the judge hearing the case.Police in the Australian state of New South Wales have arrested a 22-year-old man following an incident in Narrabeen, a Northern suburb of Sydney on Saturday. Police allege the man dragged a dead possum behind his car along a busy Sydney road.According to a police statement, a number of citizens contacted them after seeing a vehicle driving along the Wakehurst Parkway in Narabeen with what appeared to be an animal tied to the rear. The police were told that the animal was dragged for several hundred metres before breaking free from the rope.After receiving further information from the public, police found the body of a brush tail possum on the side of the road. Witnesses then provided police with further information that assisted them to locate a 22-year-old male, believed to have been driving the vehicle the possum was tied to.Police attended a house where the man was staying and took him to Dee Why police station where he was interviewed. Police have stated that another three youths have been interviewed regarding the incident.The 22 year-old man was charged with offensive conduct and is to appear in court on a later date. Under NSW law, the maximum penalty the man faces is 3 months in jail or an AUD$660 fine.Police and the RSPCA will conduct an autopsy on the possum, which they expect will confirm that the possum was already dead before being dragged.A 33-year old visitor to the United States, named Wen Hao Zhao from Sydney, Australia, was arrested at the Capitol building on Monday, after he was observed by police standing in a "statue-like pose" and carrying two suitcases. When confronted by officers of the United States Capitol Police (USCP) who were called to the scene at 12:45 p.m. EST, he is reported to have been unresponsive to questioning.  "He only would say at first that he wanted to speak to President Bush," according to USCP Chief Terrance W. Gainer.  Some reports suggest that the man was limited or unresponsive in his use of English.The West Lawn area next to the Capitol building and an adjacent part of 1st Street was evacuated and tourists were briefly prevented from entering the building on the possibility that the suitcases may have contained a bomb. Authorities X-rayed the bags and examined them for over 3 hours.  One bag was found to contain only clothing.  The other bag, which apparently was thought to contain wiring which might belong to an explosive device, was destroyed on-site with a water cannon; after which, the bag was found to have contained only common items such as a CD player, batteries, and a watch. Zhao was arrested at 1:45 p.m. EST without resistance on charges of disorderly conduct; other more serious charges could be filed.  However, Allen Doody of U.S. Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has indicated plans to deport Zhao back to Australia within a few days without charges.  "We do not plan to charge him," Doody said.Zhao is dual-nationality Chinese-Australian, who entered the US legally on his Australian passport less than a week ago.New South Wales Police have charged a 29 year old Sydney man for driving whilst disqualified twice within three hours on Sunday. Police claim that the man had been disqualified until 2012.Police allege that they caught the man driving a Nissan Skyline whilst disqualified. He was subsequently charged and granted bail to appear in the Downing Centre Local Court on June 5.Following being charged at Redfern police station, Police allege that when the man was released at 3:30 p.m. AEST he walked back to his Nissan Skyline and drove away. Police spotted him again in Newtown, pulled him over where he was taken back to Redfern police station and charged.At Redfern police station, the man was refused bail and was kept in custody until Monday.Southport Magistrates' Court was told today that Anthony Douglas Donohue, 34 was so annoyed by a helicopter hovering over his home that he telephoned Air Services Australia with a threatening message yesterday.Donohue allegedly threatened to blow the chopper out of the sky using a home-made bazooka loaded with tomatoes.Police swung into action searching Donohue's Queensland home. A police spokesperson stated that such situations were taken "very seriously", although no weapons had been found."Fruit is hardly a weapon of mass terror," Donohue's solicitor Bill Potts said.Mr Donohue is charged with two counts of threatening to endanger the safety of an aircraft and the case will go to court next month.Supporters of convicted Australian drug trafficker, Van Nguyen, gathered outside the State Library in Melbourne yesterday to display thousands of messages of opposition to his death sentence. Callers to talkback radio in Melbourne were overwhelmingly against the death penalty of Nguyen, who immediately admitted his guilt and has cooperated with authorities since being caught smuggling heroin into Singapore. Many called for a boycott of Singaporean products.25-year-old Nguyen was arrested at Changi Airport in 2002 for carrying heroin and sentenced to death in March. Nguyen claims he carried the 396 grams of heroin strapped to his body in an attempt to pay off his brother Khoa's $30,000 legal debts.The Singapore government have announced they will execute Nguyen at dawn on December 2nd. Singapore President S. R. Nathan rejected Nguyen's clemency four weeks ago. The Melbourne salesman was sentenced to death under Singapore law which determines a mandatory death sentence for anyone found guilty of possessing 15 grams of heroin or more.Nguyen's mother was informed on Thursday by registered mail from the Singapore prisons service of the execution date. The letter stated that she should start making funeral arrangements. She will get to see her son in the three days leading up to the execution.Despite repeated pleas for clemency from many thousands of supporters; religious groups; human rights organisations; the Pope; and the Australian Government - including Prime Minister, John Howard - Singapore officials have said Nguyen's execution is irreversible.Mr Howard had argued that Nguyen should be spared, citing mitigating circumstances in his case which pointed to the fact that he was not a serial drug trafficker but had merely been trying to pay off his brother's debts.The Victorian Attorney-General, Rob Hulls, says the Singaporean Government has shown no compassion whatsoever in its treatment of Van Nguyen and his family."What's happening is brutal, is inappropriate. I, and the Victorian Government, vehemently oppose the death penalty in any circumstances", he told ABC Radio. "This is a young kid who has assisted the police all the way... In any other country, he would get a discount in relation to the penalty. But because there is a mandatory death penalty for drug offences in Singapore, this young man may well be executed. It is just grossly inappropriate.""Singapore maintains that capital punishment is a criminal justice issue; it is the sovereign right of every country to decide whether or not to include capital punishment within its criminal justice system," a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. Singapore argues that there was no international consensus that capital punishment should be abolished. At the most recent meeting of the UN Commission on Human Rights, 66 countries dissociated themselves from a resolution calling for the abolition of capital punishment. Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong affirmed Singapore's position by saying that it has to "stand firm on drugs to protect its citizens from the scourge and to ensure the country does not become a conduit for the trafficking of illicit drugs."In reply to a letter appealing for clemency from his Australian counterpart Alexander Downer, Singapore Foreign Minister George Yeo said: "Mr Nguyen imported almost 400gm of pure heroin which would have supplied more than 26,000 doses to drug addicts."No one will be permitted to see Nguyen on the morning of his execution. His body will be released to his mother.Jon Stanhope, the Australian Capital Territory Chief Minister, has posted a confidential draft of the proposed Australian anti-terror bill to his website.  Mr Stanhope says he hopes posting draft counter-terrorism laws on his website will open community debate about the issue and has stated that he will not comply with instructions from the Commonwealth to remove the document.  The Australian Labor Party is backing his actions.The main impetus for the action appears to be the short amount of time the Senate committee will have to debate the bill; just one day.  In particular the Greens Senator Bob Brown has accused the Government of engineering the circumstances that only allow a one-day inquiry.  "It was an extraordinary premeditated attack on the Senate committee system and effectively made the committee system a farce," said Senator Brown.  Others, including the Australian Law Council, have expressed concerns about the scope of the proposed bill.Prime Minister John Howard has defended the process, saying "It's important for the security of Australia, it was unanimously agreed to by me with the eight Labor premiers and chief ministers, and we can't have any undue delay that the legislation will be exposed for public scrutiny and it will reflect that agreement."Human Rights Watch and the International Federation of Journalists have also criticised the proposed laws, saying that they will impede press freedom, "severely threaten Australians’ civil liberties and violate international law".Ministers in Australia's federal government have lost the power to veto laws in the nation's two mainland territories after legislation passed the national parliament. The legislation requires for both chambers of the parliament to strike down laws made in the Northern Territory (NT) and the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) parliaments. Previously government ministers could veto laws unilaterally. "What that means is that it is no longer the case that the minister can step in with the stroke of a pen and dismiss territory laws as we've seen many instances before," Greens MP Adam Bandt said.The legislation is the first piece of Australian Greens-proposed federal legislation to be signed into law. Greens leader Senator Bob Brown said "[this is a] very important milestone for democracy in the territories," he said.ACT Chief Minister Katy Gallagher welcomed the law change, saying that while the ACT government would continue to call for a joint territory-federal review into the self-government legislation, there was no need for a delay to "sensible" veto law changes. "We've never felt that overturning the laws of a democratically elected government at the swipe of a pen was a fair situation."The opposition attempted to change the legislation to prevent the legalisation of same-sex marriages in the territories, but Government frontbencher Craig Emerson told parliament that federal marriage laws made the amendment unnecessary.69-year-old grandfather John Walsh stands accused of murdering three victims in the small New South Wales town of Cowra. All victims were killed in different ways.Media organisations have reported that the 69-year-old man killed his five year old grand daughter by drowning; her seven year old brother was killed by a blunt force trauma to the back of the head, and his wife was killed by multiple axe wounds to her body - including her head.New South Wales Police could not confirm the post-mortem examination, saying that the results of the post-mortem examination are not expected to be finalised for a couple of days and may not be immediately made public.The 69-year-old man, who went before Deniliquin Local Court on July 1, 2008, was refused bail and charged with three counts of murder and one count of attempted murder. He is currently in a special holding cell on 24-hour watch at the Junee Correctional Centre. A further appearance is due in Wagga Wagga Local Court via an audio-visual link on July 7, 2008.The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) has launched an investigation into the Nine Network over comments by its football commentators regarding the government's planned poker machine reform.An ACMA statement yesterday read: "ACMA has confirmed that it is investigating a complaint that Channel Nine broadcast political material without adequately identifying it as such during the NRL first preliminary final".The comments, made during an NRL football match on September 23, saw Nine’s commentators Ray Warren and Phil Gould criticizing the reforms, labeling pokie reform as "rubbish". Mr Gould added "I’ve never seen a more stupid policy in all my life."Networks are required to acknowledge political comment when broadcast as a condition of their licenses. "The identification of political material usually takes the form of a statement following the material advising on whose behalf the material had been broadcast", the ACMA statement noted.Proposed reforms to poker machines will see gamblers forced to pre-commit to a limit on their losses, or instead use low-intensity poker machines with $1 bets.Shelly Bates, Nine Network’s compliance manager, claimed, as reported by ABC's Media Watch, "The comments relating to the Federal Government proposed poker machine tax were purely the opinions of the commentators regarding matters directly affecting the NRL community".  Mr Warren previously told Austereo's Triple M that the comments were "a directive from up top ... [to] be read by at least somebody" adding,  "I think it was done on behalf of the [National] Rugby League, who is fully supportive of the clubs."On Monday, independents in the Australian Parliament Andrew Wilkie and Nick Xenophon wrote to David Gyngell, chief executive of the Nine Network, accusing the network of "attempting to mislead (and alarm) viewers", and of breaching the Commercial Television Industry Code of Practice, the Broadcasting Services Act, and the Electoral Act. Nine responded with a statement yesterday, "The Nine Network will be providing Messrs Wilkie and Xenophon with a detailed and considered response on the issues they have raised, and we are confident we are not in breach of any code provisions."If ACMA rules Nine in breach of its license conditions the watchdog may impose a fine or further license conditions, demand action to prevent further breaches, or even suspend or cancel the network's license.An Australian man arrested last December near the Cambodian border in Vietnam, Trinh Huu, has been sentenced to death by a Vietnamese People's Court for smuggling 2kg of heroin.  Amnesty International has urged the Australian Federal Government to do everything it can to help the man. The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs has said that Trinh was receiving consular assistance, but that it was too early to negotiate for clemency as his case is still subject to appeal. The government has reiterated its long standing opposition to the death penalty.Australian Prime Minister John Howard has made a qualified apology to an Australian citizen who was deported to the Philippines in 2001. The woman, who was born in the Philippines, is yet to be located. "I am very sorry if anything unfair has happened in relation to that and on the face of it that does appear to be the case," Mr Howard said.The woman had come into contact with New South Wales police after a car accident. Speaking but little English, she was then sent to the Philippines consulate in Brisbane, Queensland. She was then deported by immigration officials, in 2001. In 2003 they became aware that she was listed in Queensland as a missing person. A marriage to an Australian man had broken down, and the lady was believed to be suffering from a mental illness.  According to the National Survey of Mental Health and Well Being (1997), one in five Australian adults meet at least one criteria for mental disorder.Parallels have been drawn between this incident and the case of Cornelia Rau, an Australian citizen who spent 10 months in immigration detention, including 3 months in solitary confinement at Baxter Detention Centre, before her identity was revealed.The Department of Immigration Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (DIMIA), responsible for both cases, has left unanswered a question raised in Parliament in February, concerning the number who had been wrongfully detained within its system of mandatory detention. The answer was due on April 8, according to Greens Senator Kerry Nettle.DIMIA indicated in February last year, that over the previous year (2003—2004), 33 people who were lawfully in Australia, had been detained and then released.Australian Prime Minister John Howard was mobbed by protesters in Perth, Western Australia on Saturday, angry at the stance he has taken on the recent conflicts in the Middle East.Leaving a Liberal party conference at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in the West Australian capital, Howard was mobbed by 200 protestors angry at his support for Israel and the Australian government's lack of action.Protestors kicked, punched and threw projectiles at the Prime Minister's vehicle as police struggled to keep the angry mob under control. One protestor managed to break off the Australian flag attached to the front of Mr Howard's vehicle.Protestors, demanding a cease fire in the Middle East, chanted "we want peace" and handed out flyers proclaiming "Cluster bombs are used by Israel to burn our families in Lebanon. Is this fair?"Police were taken by surprise at the speed by which the protest escalated into violence. "We were surprised by the approach. It was supposed to be a peaceful demonstration," one officer said. "It had been peaceful up to that point."Police arrested two men and charged them with disorderly conduct.Prior to the protest, Mr Howard told his party conference that two things must happen before peace can be realised in the middle east:"The first is that there must be conditional acceptance throughout the entire Arab world, without exception, of Israel's right to exist in peace and stability behind secure and internationally recognised boundaries.""The entire Arab world, including Hezbollah, Iran and Syria, must give up forever the idea that the Israelis can be driven from their land.""The second condition is that there has to be a equally unconditional acceptance, including on behalf of the Israelis, of the need and the justice of an independent Palestinian state.""There has to be a two-state solution."Australian Prime Minister John Howard has promised that his government will do whatever it can to assist Schapelle Corby's legal team. He said this as part of a three page letter sent in response to a request from Corby herself. "Let me assure you that the Australian Government will continue to provide every assistance it can under our legal system, consistent with our approach to date," he said. Corby was recently sentenced by an Indonesian court to 20 years in jail for attempting to smuggle four kilograms of marijuana into the island of Bali. The case has been controversial in Australia, with many people believing she is innocent and that the legal process was unfair.It has been alleged that the drugs were planted in Ms. Corby's luggage by baggage handlers, as part of a smuggling ring internal to Australia, and that they were not collected by the intended "pick up", leaving them in Ms. Corby's possession when she arrived in Bali. The Bali High Court decided during an appeal that new evidence should be heard in the case. During the original case a number of key witnesses were not called. Corby's lawyers are now collecting new information and preparing for the case. Mr Howard pledged to  support them in this process. "Looking ahead, the Australian government will do what it can to support your legal team as they work to collect further evidence in Australia", he said.John Howard has dismissed the claims made by the Queensland's Solicitor General that the Federal Government's proposed anti-terror laws could be unconstitutional. He has also come under criticism for planning to introduce the laws on Melbourne Cup Day, a day when most Australian’s will be paying attention to a Horse Race, and not politics.In an unusual move, the government will compel an instantaneous debate on the legislation, giving the opposition 10 minutes to scrutinize the draft laws rather than the usual fortnight.Opposition homeland security spokesman Arch Bevis told  The Age newspaper "This is an extraordinary abuse of power, the likes of which I don't think anyone would remember," "John Howard now has control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate, and if he wants to use his power in an arrogant, bloody-minded way we don't have the numbers to stop him."Earlier today Queensland’s Peter Beattie told ABC Radio that the Prime Minister's proposals could face legal challenges. Other State Premiers are seeking their own legal advice, with only the Western Australian Premier also raising similar concernsJohn Howard told ABC’s World Today “The advice we have is that these laws are constitutional. There's never been any doubt raised by our legal advisers”.The Prime Minister added he would be willing to talk through the issue with the State Premiers. Agreeing this morning that the solicitor-generals from the states will consult along with the national equivalent to work through these issues .The QLD Premier who supports the principles of the bill told ABC radio “I'm not interested in making this a public issue, or pursuing some sort of silly public debate. What I'm interested in is resolving these issues, ensuring that we actually protect Australia, protect the nation, and protect Australians as well. That's why we've insisted on a public interest monitor. Any of these legal issues we will deal with and we'll deal with them sensibly.Independent supporters of the bill are urging the government to push ahead. Neil James from the Australia Defense Association says that the legal precedents recognized during World War I and World War II would indicate that most of the reasonably contentious provisions would be constitutional.However Constitutional lawyer John Williams says that judges and magistrates could argue that the proposed laws undermined judicial independence. Dr Williams believes a High Court challenge to the laws was almost inevitable.Telling ABC Radio that "I could not see that this legislation could operate for long without a challenge being made," The Federal Opposition Leader Kim Beazley calling on Mr Howard to exercise vigilance as it would exasperate Australian taxpayers if people mistakenly subjected to his anti-terror laws were then paid thousands of dollars in damages.Interviewed by Melbourne’s Herald Sun Newspaper, he said, "You have to, when you are introducing laws like this, make absolutely certain there are checks and balances in it."Mr Beazley also says that the Anti-Terror Laws aren’t the action the Government could be taking to protect Australians.."We have yawning gaps, yawning holes in the protection of the Australian people."He cited Australia's coastal borders as being unprotected, with habitual illegal fishing incursions, a sign of the country's vulnerabilitiesFollowing the escalation of investigations into St Stanislaus College in Bathurst, New South Wales, Australia, Wikinews has obtained a police statement from an alleged victim made in 1997 against priest Brian Joseph Spillane. Spillane is facing 33 charges relating to the allegations.It had been believed that Bathurst detectives set up Strike Force Header after receiving a complaint from a former St Stanislaus student last year. The complainant came to the police's attention after he came to Bathurst handing out fliers documenting alleged abuses at the school and providing a link to a website he had set up. St Stanislaus College contacted police and asked them to investigate. Police contacted the alleged victim and asked him if he would like to make a complaint.In the statement obtained by Wikinews, the same man complained to detectives at Kalgoorlie, Western Australia about abuse by Spillane at St Stanislaus. In the graphic statement, he describes abuse which began following a poker game with the priest at the centre of the allegations. The statement describes further abuses spanning several months.Bathurst Police refused to comment when contacted about the statement today.Indian doctor Mohammed Haneef has been formally charged in Brisbane by the Australian Federal Police after being held without charge for the past 12 days in connection with the failed Glasgow Airport and London car bombings.Dr Haneef, a distant cousin of Kafeel and Sabeel Ahmed who are accused of plotting the attacks provided Sabeel with a SIM card. It is alleged that UK police found the card in the possession of Mr Ahmed when he was arrested and informed Australian authorities.During a bail hearing, the AFP claimed that Haneef had given his SIM card to the Ahmed brothers when he left the UK in July, 2006. It is alleged that he also shared a house in Liverpool with his cousins for up to 2 two years before moving to Australia. Police opposed bail for Dr Haneef, however the magistrate has reserved her decision until Monday due to the large amount of paperwork involved in the case. Dr Haneef remains in custody.Speaking at a news conference in Canberra, AFP Chief Mick Keelty told reporters that Haneef had been reckless in giving his cousins a SIM Card. He further claimed that the "allegation involves recklessness rather than intention".Dr Haneef was arrested on July 2 at Brisbane International Airport where it is alleged that he was trying to leave Australia for India on a one-way ticket. He claims that he was going to visit his wife and newborn daughter although police have openly stated they do not accept Haneef's explanation. Up until his arrest, Dr Haneef had been working at the Gold Coast Hospital.Under Australian counter-terrorism laws, Dr Haneef faces a maximum penalty of 15 years imprisonment if convicted.An on duty superintendent in the New South Wales Police Force was caught speeding in an unmarked police car at 176km/h in a 100km/h zone on the Olympic Highway near Junee, New South Wales on October 13. Superintendent Frank Goodyer, who was caught by his own officers in the Wagga Wagga Local Area Command, was charged with driving at more than 45km/h over the speed limit, had his automatically license suspended for six months and fined A$1674. It was reported by Sydney radio station 2GB that it was Superintendent Frank Goodyer as the officer who was caught speeding by his own officers after the New South Wales Police released a media release which did not name the officer who was caught.Superintendent Frank Goodyer told ABC Radio, "I accepted the penalty. I accept that I've done the wrong thing and, as I say, it is still my job as a senior police officer to encourage safe driving and I will continue to do that regardless of my actions".Police in Sydney have seized 1,900 litres of 3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl-2-propanone, a chemical known as "liquid ecstacy" during a raid in the North-Western Sydney suburb of Castle Hill. Authorities estimate the chemical could be used to make up to two tonnes of ecstacy with an estimated street value of AU$540 million (over $400 million).Police claim the bust is one of the largest in Australia's history.The operation was carried out by New South Wales, Victorian and Australian Federal Police.Police are yet to make an arrest and are continuing their investigations.Police in Melbourne have seized over a tonne of ecstacy in a shipment of tiles from Italy. Four were arrested on Thursday and early Friday relating to the shipment, which the Australian Federal Police has called the biggest shipment of street-ready ecstacy pills in the world.The four men were charged with aiding and abetting a prohibited import, according to ABC radio. Five million tablets were seized, with a reported street value of US$190 million (AU$250m). Two were additionally charged with attempting to possess a prohibited import. Federal police were continuing to investigate a crime ring behind the shipment, a spokesperson told News24.com.Federal Agent Mike Phelan said: "The AFP is now working with its counterparts in Italy and other parts of Europe to identify any overseas links with this latest seizure."X-rays taken of the shipment, which arrived in Port Melbourne earlier in the week, had revealed anomalies inside eight pallets which were stacked with tiles, said a report from Australian Associated Press.Police then monitored the shipping container until it was delivered on Thursday to a suburban Melbourne factory, where two men were arrested, according to the News24.com report. Agents searched a dozen homes and businesses across Melbourne and arrested two more men early on Friday. All four suspects were due to appear in court later on Friday. Federal Justice Minister Chris Ellison praised the AFP, the Australian Customs Service and the Australian Crime Commission involved in the operation, which he told Australian Associated Press had been ongoing since January."This big seizure sends a very clear message to those who want to traffic drugs to Australia, you will be caught and face very serious penalties," Senator Ellison told the news agency, saying the shipment "could have wreaked havoc"."Anyone who says this sort of seizure does not slow the supply of drugs is quite obviously out of touch with reality."The previous largest Australian ecstasy haul occurred in November 2004 in Sydney, when 1,800 pounds of ecstasy tablets and powder were seized, Australian Federal Police (AFP) told Reuters, compared to this shipment's weight of 2,240 pounds.A New South Wales District Court heard today from Priest John Sidney Denham, who pled guilty to a string of sexual abuse charges involving 39 minors between 1979 and 1986 in Newcastle and Taree, north of Sydney.Denham, who was Head of Discipline at St Pius X High School, Newcastle, where 27 of the young boys that he abused attended, claimed to have been given access to the boys when they were sent to him for misbehaving in class and told the court as well as a psychiatrist that "some of them were little bastards who were already in trouble." Although Denham couldn't offer any explanation as to why he committed the crimes in question, he claimed "[i]t was as if I thought no-one could resist me" having told the court prior that he was aroused by children he took pity on. 67-year-old Denham, whose age led a psychiatrist to class him as being at a low risk of reoffending, has called himself a "mere scumbag paedophile".Denham finished his testimony by apologising to the victims and their families. He has yet to receive a sentence. He claims he has not committed any more offences in the last 25 years.According to Police, a 22 year-old male provisional driver from Macquarie Fields in Sydney's West has been clocked doing 202 Kph (125 Mph) in a 110 Kph (68 Mph) speed zone. In New South Wales provisional drivers are limited to a maximum of 100 Kph (62 Mph) regardless of the actual road's limit.The driver was detected by a highway patrol officer who was carrying out radar duties along the Hume Highway at Mittagong, South of Sydney.Police also discovered after stopping the man that his driver's licence had already been suspended. He was subsequently charged with driving whilst suspended and dangerous speeding.Barbara Kathleen Higgs, 43, a manager of the Bulan Baru (New Moon) resort on the Indonesian island of Lombok has been charged with possession of cannabis and could face a maximum 10 years in prison if convicted.Indonesian police allege that they found 50 grams of cannabis and two bags of cannabis seeds at Higgs' house in Senggigi, where she has lived for five years with her husband.Under Indonesian law there is no provision for bail. Ms Higgs will remain in custody until her trial is complete.According to Police Brigadier Kadek Sudeartana, Ms Higgs has been the "target of operations for one month". Sudeartana also said that Ms Higgs was suspected of being in possession of drugs after tip-offs from a number of members in the community.The husband of Ms Higgs, who refused to give his name claims the arrest is a misunderstanding. "It's been a mistake", he said. "You'll find that by tomorrow all the charges have been dropped". Australian consular officials from Bali have visited Ms Higgs and offered their assistance.Ms Higgs is the most recent Australian to be caught up in drug offences in Indonesia, with the Bali Nine, Schapelle Corby, Michelle Leslie and Graham Payne facing the Indonesian legal system in recent times.Australian Prime Minister John Howard and Minister for Foreign Affairs Alexander Downer have once again warned Australians to avoid drugs when travelling overseas.The Canterbury Bulldogs, a team in Australia's National Rugby League, has entered into an agreement with New South Wales police to provide extra police at all games in NSW. The agreement follows a spate of violent incidents at Bulldogs matches this year.In March, there were fights during and after a game between the Bulldogs and Wests Tigers at Telstra Stadium, the Bulldogs home ground. This led police to step up their presence at Bulldogs matches for the rest of the season. A month later, a group of Bulldogs supporters abused four South Sydney cheerleaders at another home match.According to NSW Police, a meeting was held between the police executive and Bulldogs CEO, Malcolm Noad where it was decided that the club will pay for additional police at all Bulldogs games across NSW. The additional police will include specialist police (including riot police) to provide security for spectators.Only police that are working outside their normal rostered hours will be paid for by the club.The police Commander of the North West Sydney region, Assistant Commissioner said he was pleased that the club was working with the police proactively. “It is pleasing to see the club taking a proactive stance to ensure the games proceed with a strong police presence to provide increased safety” he said.Assistant Commissioner Clifford warned that police would not be specifically targeting Bulldogs supporters, but anyone who is causing trouble at games. “It is hoped this initiative will stamp out violence at future Bulldogs matches. Police will be targeting anyone doing the wrong thing, regardless of which team they support,” he said.The school at the center of child-sex allegations, St Stanislaus College in Bathurst, New South Wales, Australia has removed a newsletter recommending Penthouse magazine as recommended reading for teenage boys. On the school's website, the newsletter has been replaced by a copy which omits these comments.In the same newsletter, principal of the college John Edwards informs the school community that The Daily Telegraph had contacted him regarding sex abuse allegations.The controversial comments were made by Ian MacDougall, a HSIE teacher. When asked what book he recommends every teenage boy read, he responded "Besides 'PeCENSOREDse' — any book that stirs the imagination/conscious."A parent who does not wish to be named told Wikinews she took the comment to mean Penthouse magazine. She said the newsletter was given to her sons on Friday and when she read it she raised concerns with the school. The newsletter was changed on the school's website after concerns were raised. The parent said she was considering enrolling her sons at a public school following the incident."It makes you wonder how much truth there is to the allegations when you have a teacher recommending students read an adult magazine," the parent said.The school's principal, John Edwards, told Wikinews that the newsletter was changed after Mr. MacDougall's answer was "widely interpreted to mean a girl magazine." Mr Edwards said he deemed the original comments "unacceptable."When questioned by Wikinews on whether or not the article was recommending Penthouse, he said that the question was completed before the staff member went on long-service leave. The principal said the original version of the questions listed 'peCENSORED' and later had 'se' added to the end as "humour." He said after feedback from the comments, the version was replaced on the schools website.The Economics Legislation Committee of the Australian Senate reported Tuesday on their investigation into the matter of investigating the benefits of religious charities in Australia, and recommended the formation of a Charities Commission. The recommendation has received bipartisan support. The inquiry began as the result of legislation initially introduced in the Senate by Senator Nick Xenophon after he had received complaints from former members of the Scientology organization in Australia.The Charities Commission recommended by the Australian Senate Committee would have responsibilities including investigating charitable organizations in order to make sure that their business dealings were forthright. Such organizations would be required to prove they were worthy of maintaining charitable status from the government.Senator Xenophon commented that the recommendation would begin a process towards increasing accountability of these organizations, "I believe reform is now inevitable. We can't continue to have business as usual when it comes to organisations that have been beyond any reasonable level of accountability." He emphasized such inquiry came about due to controversial revelations from former members of the Church of Scientology, "This inquiry came about because of legislation I introduced for a public benefit test for religions and charities, and it was as a direct result of being approached by many victims of the Church of Scientology. Their evidence, their complaints played a key role in triggering this inquiry."Senator Xenophon said that recommendations included in the Report served as a warning to cult-like organizations such as the Church of Scientology. The Report requested that the Attorney-General of Australia investigate laws relating to cults in the country. The "Tax Laws Amendment (Public Benefit Test) Bill 2010" was introduced into the Senate by Senator Xenophon in May 2010; the Economics Legislation Committee investigated this proposed legislation and completed a report on the matter in the form of a series of recommendations for the new government in Australia to consider.A member of the inquiry committee itself, Senator Xenophon pointed out that the recommendations of the Report went beyond the scope of his initial proposed legislation through a recommendation that a Charities Commission use a "Public Benefit Test" in order to assess non-profit organizations active in the country. Senator Xenophon provided an addendum to the Report in the form of a special notes section, wherein he wrote that due to the nature of the disturbing accounts told before the committee regarding controversial activities of organizations in the country, legislation to set up a Charities Commission should be completed before June 30, 2011.The Committee's Report included recommendations regarding concerns about controversial activities of cult-like organizations. The Report stated there was sufficient evidence heard before the Committee such that the activities of cults should be investigated in the country with the goal of forming policy broader than simply with respect to taxation laws. For the purposes of the Committee's investigation, the Macquarie Dictionary was cited to define the term cult as, "A religious or pseudo-religious movement, characterised by the extreme devotion of its members, who usually form a relatively small, tightly controlled group under an authoritarian and charismatic leader."With regard to behaviour of cults in the country, the Committee recommended the Attorney-General report on operations of governmental organization which investigate these groups such as the French government organization, MIVILUDES. The recommendation to the Attorney-General stated, "The Committee recommends that the Attorney-General's Department provide a report to the Committee on the operation of Miviludes and other law enforcement agencies overseas tasked with monitoring and controlling the unacceptable and/or illegal activities of cult-like organisations who use psychological pressure and breaches of general and industrial law to maintain control over individuals." In the summary and recommendations section of the Report, the Committee concluded, "Religions and charities, and other not-for-profit organisations ... play an important role in the community and in the economy. They receive significant tax concessions. It is therefore important that they are transparent and appropriately accountable."Australian Greens Senator Bob Brown today called for a ban on junk food advertisements during times that children are watching TV. In a press release, the Senator referred specifically to the previous night's episode of Four Corners."The extensive use of psychologists to analyse little children’s responsiveness to TV advertising, including how best to influence parents to buy goods by 'nagging' from children, is exploitation without honour," Senator Brown said.The documentary, entitled How The Kids Took Over, investigated the increase in marketing to children, who "have a say" in AU$700 billion worth of spending each year. "The marketing assault is aimed not only at getting children to spend. Even companies who market adult products, such as cars, are enlisting children to help persuade their parents to buy the 'right' brand," the program summary said.In the past the Government has rejected such calls. It recently launched a $6 million advertising campaign encouraging children to exercise an hour each day.Senator Brown says he plans to propose a Senate Inquiry.The High Court of Australia has overturned legislation enacted by the Howard government last year which banned all gaol inmates from voting at federal elections. The court ruled by majority that the previous legislation which banned only those serving sentences longer than three years would remain.The case against the amendments was bought to the court by an Aboriginal inmate, Vickie Roache, who is an inmate at the Dame Phyllis Frost Women's Prison in Victoria. She was represented by Philip Lynch, director of the Victorian Human Rights Law Resource Centre. He described Ms Roache as educated, articulate and deeply committed to the rights of prisoners and indigenous Australians. "Vickie has stood up not just for the human rights of prisoners and Aboriginal Australians, but the interests of the entire community. She has done so with courage, integrity and commitment," he said. Lawyers argued that the amendments to the Commonwealth Electoral Act were in violation of the Constitution which states that the parliament is to be "directly chosen by the people".Ms Roache's challenge to previous laws which banned inmates serving terms longer than three years was unsuccessful, with the court upholding them. The court further ordered Ms Roache to pay half the court's costs.There is yet to be an comment by the federal government or a release detailing the reasons behind the courts decision.The Australian Tax Office (ATO) has warned against a fraudulent email claiming to be from the ATO. The email, which is similar to previous scams, uses the ATO logo and has the subject line of ‘Notification - Please read’, ‘Australian Taxation Office - Please read’ or other variations.The email directs recipients to a bogus website that looks similar to the ATO website and requests credit card and personal details."People should be wary of unsolicited emails claiming to be from the Tax Office," says Tax Commissioner Michael D’Ascenzo."As an extra precaution we recommend you type internet addresses directly into your internet browser rather than clicking on links embedded in emails," added D'Ascenzo who also stated that anyone who receives the email should delete it immediately.Anyone who believes they may have fallen victim to this scam are urged to contact their credit card provider.The ATO Says that it does not send any unsolicited emails.On January 11, 2009, an 18-year-old teenager was arrested for writing her nickname, "2shie", on a wall in a café near Hyde Park, Sydney, Australia. After the arrest, the teenager, Cheyene Back, pleaded guilty to intentionally or recklessly damaging property.Cheyene Back had been captured on a closed-circuit security camera at the "Hyde Park Cafe" on Macquarie Street, when she and friends wrote on the wall. Robert Napoli, a co-defendant, has had his case adjourned. They were arrested by police outside the café.On Tuesday, Magistrate Ian McRae sentenced Back to three months in jail for her offences, even though Back is a first-time offender in the eyes of the court. Back, who is from Daceyville, immediately lodged an appeal and has been freed on unconditional bail until the appeal is heard.The owner of the café, Song Wang, is seeking A$200 in compensation for the damages, however, she does not believe the jail sentence is appropriate."Give them more education, provide more education, and let them do some community service," she said. Nevertheless, Back and her friends are habitual offenders, according to Wang."This group did came [sic] to my cafe every week around Wednesday or Thursday, once a week," she said. "One day the girl made [graffiti] just inside the toilet and all over the walls and smashed my mirror. They even got on the roof, I don't know how they did that, it was all over.""You know it was really frustrating when she did it, but the whole group did it, not just her," Wang said. "I think it's a little bit harsh ... Maybe she can do some community work or something, such as letting her clean all the graffiti off, let her know how hard the work is she makes [sic]."New South Wales Premier Nathan Rees welcomed the jail term. He says everywhere he goes, graffiti is a problem."This sends a message that it's not something that the community regards as a frivolous offence," Rees said. "It is something that affects not only the aesthetic but people's sense of safety around the place if they see graffiti around and they think there is other anti-social behaviour going with it. I think a three-month jail term is absolutely appropriate."Professor Chris Cunneen, a criminologist at the University of New South Wales says the jail sentence does not match the scale of the crime."In the adult courts, a normal sort of penalty in relation to that offence would be a fine of some sort and some form of restitution for the property owner," Cunneen said.According to anti-vandalism group "Graffiti Hurts", graffiti costs Australian taxpayers A$500 million each year.The residents of Speed, a small town in the south-east of Australia, have made the decision to modify the name of the town for one month in an attempt to improve road safety in the country. The name of the town will be adjusted to SpeedKills across next month.The idea was created by the Transport Accident Commission (TAC). A campaign was launched on the social networking website Facebook, saying that if 10,000 'liked' the campaign page, the name of the town — which has a population of 45 — would be changed. 'Rename Speed' has now gone on to achieve over 33,000 likes.Previously, the government had used various advertising campaigns in an attempt to get motorists to reduce speed. However, these campaigns were in large part unsuccessful. In 2010, Australia experienced a 25% increase in deaths on rural roads . TAC spokesperson Phil Reed has stated that, with this new name change campaign, "[w]e're trying to get people to stay within the speed limits, obey road safety rules" and cause motorists to "realise that when they don't, people die".One inhabitant of Speed has also made the decision to change his name during March. Phil Down, who grows wheat and raises sheep, has decided to change his name to Phil Slow Down. Speaking to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Down explained: "It's virtually on the road to somewhere else, so we've taken our quirky name and run with it to bring the attention to the campaign of trying to get people to slow down on country roads and especially through small towns".Australia’s Nine Network has issued an apology after the rival Seven Network caught Nine News fabricating live crosses to the search site for murdered schoolboy Daniel Morcombe. The network issued a statement after Saturday and Sunday’s Nine News bulletins in Brisbane, which featured presenter Eva Milic crossing “live” to the site with the caption: “Near Beerwah”.The rival Seven Network, based nearby, lifted the lid on the scam after filming the Nine News chopper almost 100 kilometres south of Beerwah – on the helipad outside the studio, with lights on and blades in motion while Cameron Price reported from inside. Nine admitted to faking Sunday’s cross; issuing a statement on Monday blaming bad weather.“Our chopper was forced to divert from Beerwah due to bad weather, and air control instructed them to touch down,” it read.The network also told media industry website mUmBRELLA that “the producer was unaware until it was too late to abort or delay the cross”.Doubts have been cast over the truth of this statement, however, as it has since emerged that the chopper was also absent from Beerwah on Saturday, and was in fact circling Brisbane’s western suburbs during Melissa Mallet’s report. Director of Queensland Seven News, Rob Raschke, questioned the merit of Nine’s claims, telling Brisbane’s Courier-Mail, “the idea of not knowing where a $3 million helicopter is defies belief”.A revised statement yesterday announced a Nine investigation into why the location of the helicopter was misreported on both nights, describing the situation as “unacceptable”.Eight cast and crew members of the Australian television show The Chaser's War on Everything successfully breached the security surrounding the APEC summit meeting in Sydney, Australia. Using a cavalcade of three cars and two motorcycles branded with the Canadian Flag, the crew passed through two security check points, reaching the "red zone". It was only when the team attempted to turn around, ten meters from the InterContinental Hotel where United States President George W Bush was staying, that police realised the security breach and pounced.Eleven people have been charged over the incident, the eight cast and crew members and the three drivers. Two motor bike drivers at the front were told to run and police are currently searching for them. Comedian and cast member Chas Licciardello was dressed up as Osama bin Laden during the event. All 11 have been bailed to appear in court on October 4, 2007.New South Wales minister for police denied that the security services had been embarrassed by the event. A police statement said that the shows producers had been cautioned a week beforehand about trying any stunts during the APEC meetings.The Chaser had tried unsuccessfully yesterday to breach security when they dressed up as a NSW Police horse.On April 25, 2007 The Chaser successfully asked Jimbo Wales 10 questions during his visit to Sydney as a part of a segment for The Chaser's War on Everything series.Convicted Australian drug trafficker Van Tuong Nguyen was executed at Changi Prison in Singapore today. Prison officials have confirmed the execution took place at 0900 AEDT (2200 UTC Thursday). The 25-year-old Nguyen was arrested at Changi Airport in December, 2002, while in transit from Cambodia to Australia. He was found to be in possession of 396.2 grams of heroin. He was convicted in the Singapore High Court and sentenced to death under the Misuse of Drugs Act which mandates a death sentence for trafficking more than 15 grams of heroin. All appeals for clemency were rejected. Singapore's High Commissioner in Australia, Joseph Koh, said Singapore carefully considered appeals from Australia but decided the law must be applied consistently. "It had to treat Nguyen consistently with similar past cases, and apply the law equally to Singaporeans and foreigners," Mr Koh said.After saying goodbye to his client, Nguyen's Australian lawyer, Julian McMahon, said Nguyen's execution was a waste. "He is completely rehabilitated, completely reformed, completely focused on doing what is good and now they're going to kill him," he said.It was previously reported that Nguyen's mother would not be permitted to embrace her son before the execution, however, Mr McMahon has confirmed that they were allowed some physical contact. "Well I actually wasn't in the room when that happened but there was a grill and they were able to hold each other's hands and Kim was able to, at least for some time, I'm not sure how long, was able to touch Van on the face," he said. "She told me she was able to talk to him and touch his hair. That was a great comfort to her."Prayer vigils were held outside Changi Prison and around Australia to mark the first execution of an Australian since Michael McAuliffe in Malaysia in 1993. Nguyen's body is expected to be returned to Australia on Saturday for a funeral next week.Stephen Dupont, the Australian video journalist whose footage of U.S. soldiers burning corpses in Afghanistan sparked worldwide controversy, is denying any claims made by others that the bodies in the footage were burned in a disrespectable fashion.Dupont's video was first broadcasted by the Australian television network SBS earlier this month, showing footage of US soldiers burning bodies in a desertous region of Afghanistan.  During an interview with the station regarding his footage, Dupont said, "They [ PSY-OPS ] used that as a psychological warfare, I guess you'd call it. They used the fact that the Taliban were burned facing west [towards Mecca]. ... They deliberately wanted to incite that much anger from the Taliban so the Taliban could attack them. ... That's the only way they can find them." The issue has many questioning whether the burning of the bodies, which violate islamic principles, or the broadcasting of the PSY-OPS message violated sections of the Geneva Conventions.Some initial news report coverage seems to have interpreted the PSY-OPS broadcast that was stating that the bodies were burned "facing west", as a factual statement. On October 21, Dupont appeared on the NPR talk show All Things Considered and  clarified this point in an interview, reiterating that the bodies were either burned under orders from officials, or for hygiene concerns brought forth when locals did not retrieve the bodies.  Dupont also corrected reports that the bodies were facing toward Mecca, saying: "Look, the bodies as far as I’m concerned, the bodies were lying on the ground, they weren’t facing anywhere, they were just lying there."Both the Afghan government and the U.S. Army have begun investigations into the claims.The report from the Cole Inquiry has been handed down to Governor-General Michael Jeffrey. The inquiry was setup by the Howard government just over twelve months ago to investigate claims of corruption in relation to the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program.The report will be made public next week.Mainstream media has speculated that the report will recommend a string of charges against former AWB executives. It is believed that around AUD$222 million of illegal payments were made to a Jordanian trucking company partly owned by Hussein's Iraqi regime. AWB executives claim it was a victim of the Iraq government's corruption.The Australian government has also come under scrutiny for failing to investigate reports of the AWB breaching UN sanctions against Iraq. It is expected that the report will contain little about the government's role as that is outside the inquiry's terms of reference.The opposition is expected to attack the government when the report is tabled in parliament this week. Opposition spokesman for Public Accountability, Kelvin Thomson said the inquiry was set up to return a verdict wanted by the government and that the terms of reference were deliberately narrow."The inquiry has been given rorted terms of reference. It has been limited to reporting on the conduct of AWB, it has not been allowed to make findings concerning the conduct of Howard Government ministers.""The Opposition expressly raised this with Commissioner Cole earlier this year and this was Commissioner Cole's response.""So all along, the Howard Government has been seeking a verdict of AWB guilty, Government innocent," said Mr Thomson.Former chairman of AWB, Trevor Flugge said he will not read the report when it is released and said he has done nothing wrong but fears going to gaol.Speaking to The Australian newspaper, Mr Flugge said he had no interest in reading the Cole report because the case has been built against him from the outset."My public life is obviously over. And I can't honestly say that I miss it," Mr Flugge said.Valeska Paris, an Australian woman and former Scientologist, has claimed that the Church of Scientology imprisoned her for twelve years aboard the Scientology-owned cruise ship, Freewinds. Paris claims she was first sent to the ship aged eighteen for two weeks as a teenager but ended up spending twelve years there. Paris also claims that her passport was taken away from her and she was forced to work in the engine room.Paris was born in Switzerland but her parents moved her to the United Kingdom when she was six so they could be closer to the church's headquarters. She joined the Sea Org aged 14. In 1995, at age seventeen, she was told to "disconnect" from her mother."I was basically hauled in and told that my mum had attacked the church and that I needed to disconnect from her because she was suppressive". Her mother had spoken out against Scientology on French television after her ex-husband and Paris' father, Albert Jaquier, committed suicide after he lost his fortune to Scientology. Paris claims that she was kept at Flag Land Base in Clearwater, Florida until she was eighteen and then transferred to the Freewinds.On board the Freewinds, Paris claims that she was working from 6:00am to midnight and due to lack of sleep ended up being a "walking zombie". She also claims that in 1997 and 1998, she was tasked with removal of asbestos from the ship.In 2007, Paris left the ship after a confrontation with the ship's management. She was eventually sent to Rehabilitation Project Force in Sydney, which the Church describes as a religious retreat, but critics charge is a forced work camp. Here, she met her future husband and subsequently left the church.In a statement to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, the Church denied these allegations: "She certainly wasn't 'forced' to be there. She was also never forced to perform labour in the engine room." They also claimed Paris was a "volunteer" and claim she has a "vested interest for misrepresenting her experiences with the Church." The Church also claims that Paris not having her passport was "maritime procedure".An Australian woman has won the right to be impregnated with sperm from her husband, who died seven years ago. The sperm was taken from the man shortly after his death in a car accident, and frozen. The Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal ruled that the woman should be permitted to take the sperm to New South Wales. Posthumous conception is illegal in Victoria, where the sperm is currently stored.File:King Bhumibol Adulyadej Portrait.jpgMelbourne writer Harry Nicolaides, 41, was sentenced on Monday to three years imprisonment for defaming the Royal Family of Thailand. He had pled guilty to the lèse majesté indictment that arose from a self-published 2005 novel, Verisimilitude, of which only 50 copies were printed, and just seven sold.Meanwhile, yesterday, the Thai police charged a leading leftist political science professor, Dr. Giles Ji Ungpakorn, with lèse majesté.The passage of concern, which comprised only 103 words or 12 lines, referred to a crown prince's love life. This allegedly insulted the lifestyle of H.R.H. Crown Prince Maha Vajiralongkorn, the only son of Thai King Bhumibol Adulyadej and Queen Sirikit.The Royal Family of Thailand is the current ruling house of the Kingdom of Thailand, the Head of the House of the King of Thailand. It is protected by law (Lèse majesté) from insult, with the charge carrying a maximum 15-year sentence."He has written a book that slandered the king, the crown prince of Thailand and the monarchy," the judge ruled. "He was found guilty under criminal law article 112 and the court has sentenced him to six years, but due to his confession, which is beneficial to the case, the sentence is reduced to three years," the judge explained.Nicolaides earlier confessed to having slandered 81-year-old King Bhumibol and his son Vajiralongkorn. "I respect the King of Thailand. I was aware there were obscure laws (about the monarchy) but I didn't think they would apply to me," he tearfully said. He was arrested and detained at Bangkok's Suvarnabhumi Airport on August 31 as he tried to leave the country on a routine trip. Nicolaides was unaware of an arrest warrant issued on March 17, since he was not officially notified of the preliminary investigation. Nicolaides had even sent copies of the published book to the Thai Ministry of Culture and Foreign Affairs, the national library and the Bureau of the Royal Household, for approval. In the decision, the Thai judge clarified that Nicolaides had placed the monarchy into disrepute, even obliquely, by his "reckless choice of words". The judgment cited a passage about the novel's fictional prince which caused "dishonour" to the royals and suggested an "abuse of royal power." The fictional passage in question goes as follows:Nicolaides, who had worked in Thailand from 2003 to 2005 as a Chiang Rai university lecturer in hospitality and tourism, left the Bangkok court wearing a dark orange prison jumpsuit with his feet shackled. "This is an Alice-in-Wonderland experience. I really believe that I am going to wake up and all of you will be gone. I would like to apologise. This can't be real. It feels like a bad dream," said Nicolaides. He felt "dreadful," adding, "I wish my family the best."His brother Forde Nicolaides said Harry is not appealing but will request a Thai royal pardon. "We're devastated. You might be able to hear my mother crying in the background. It's quite devastating for us. The whole case has been a massive emotional ordeal that has consumed our entire family. It's beyond belief," Forde was reported as saying.Nicolaides' family has attributed some blame to the Rudd government for its failure to intervene in the case. Forde criticized Foreign Minister Stephen Smith: "There is a huge expectation gap between what Australian citizens think the Australian government will do when they are in trouble overseas versus what they will do."Harry's father Socrates Nicolaides, 83, delivered an appeal letter to Mr. Rudd last week. "I said to him, as one father to another father, please Mr. Prime Minister, I plead with you to do your utmost to do everything in your power to get Harry released," Mr. Nicolaides said. His wife Despina Nicolaides, 75, collapsed when she saw the video footage of her son. "He has just written a book," she said amid tears.Despina Nicolaides said on Wednesday she appealed to King Bhumibol for a royal pardon, but her family has not received any reply from the Thai government. "We don't know when really it will be okay for Harry to be released - they don't say anything," she said. "I'm worrying sick. I hope that they will help us too like they did the Swiss people," she added.According to Foreign Minister Smith, an Australian consular staff in Bangkok visited Nicolaides 25 times in prison. "We understand the anxiety that is being felt by Mr. Nicolaides and his family, however, he is subject to the legal and judicial processes of Thailand," the Smith's spokesman said. Moreover, Thai laws require a waiting period of 30 days from promulgation of the sentence before Nicolaides becomes eligible to apply for a Thai King's pardon.Smith mentioned that he had forwarded the Federal Government's letter to Thai Foreign Minister Kasit Piromya Monday for the Australian writer's pardon. "I raised Mr. Nicolaides' case with then Thai Foreign Minister Sompong when we met at APEC in November last year," Mr. Smith added.Independent Senator Nicholas (Nick) Xenophon has called on the Australian Federal Government to exert pressure on Thailand for the early repatriation of Nicolaides who has already served five months in jail. He has been refused bail four times. Xenophon is a South Australian barrister, anti-gambling campaigner and No Pokies, independent in the South Australian Legislative Council."The imprisonment has taken a heavy toll on his physical and mental health. He has lost weight, he has been continually unwell for extended periods of time and obviously psychologically he has found the experience of being in prison in Thailand very challenging," his Australian lawyer, Mark Dean SC said. "Once that sentence is passed, if it's not a suspended sentence, then an application will be made for a royal pardon and we're hoping that that will be processed as quickly as possible," he added.Acting Premier of Victoria, Justin Hulls said he has enquired about whether Victorian Government can provide assistance to Nicolaides. Hulls' legal team applied for a Thai royal pardon. His office has also communicated with lawyers of the case and the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.According to Reporters Without Borders (RWB, or Reporters Sans Frontières), a Paris-based international non-governmental organization that advocates freedom of the press, the sentence imposed was "a serious violation of free expression." The group has expressed concern at the use of the Lèse majesté laws to suppress political discussion and dissenting voices.Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the Thai police filed a lèse majesté case against Dr. Giles Ji Ungpakorn, 55, a  political science professor at Chulalongkorn University and Thailand's leading leftist political analyst. "The government, the prime minister, should order that they (the lese majeste laws) cease being used against people and that a whole review of the law should take place," Giles said. The accusations against Giles stem from the publishing a 2007 anti-military coup book, 'A Coup for the Rich,' which can be downloaded free on his blog http://www.wdpress.blog.co.uk. The 144-page critique is an academic textbook dealing with the Thailand political crisis 2005-2006, the bloodless coup of September 19, 2006 which overthrew former Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. Professor Ungpakorn's father Puey Ungpakorn was the Bank of Thailand's governor for 12 years and also a Thammasat University dean, and whose brother Jon Ungpakorn is a former senator.Giles was duly informed of the charges at the central Pathum Wan Police Station. He was granted 20 days to file a sworn counter-statement to the police, who will then rule on whether to file formal charges in the courts for trial. "Lèse majesté is being used to destroy free speech," said Giles who denied the charges. "The lès majesté laws are there to protect the military and to protect governments that come to power through military action. They're not really about protecting the monarchy," he added.The Thai people believe that King Bhumibol and the Thai Royal Family are semi-divine. Accordingly, insulting the monarchy is taken extremely seriously in Thailand. Justice Minister Pirapan Salirathavibhaga earlier vowed to impose tougher regulations to implement the laws. Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva, however, announced last week that he was trying to "strike the balance between upholding the law and allowing freedom of expression." Pirapan has reported that more than 10,000 websites have similar criminal contents. The Thai government had already blocked about 4,000 websites, including 2,300 websites recently, for alleged violations of lèse majesté law. As of last week, more than 17 criminal cases of insulting the royal family were still pending. About 400 more websites await a court restraining order, according to Information and Communication (ICT) Minister Ranongruk Suwanchawee.Lèse majesté cases have been filed against several people, including Chotisak On-soong, Jitra Kotchadej, Darunee Charnchoengsilpakul, Suwicha Thakhor, Sondhi Limthongkul, and social activists like Sulak Sivaraksa who were charged in the 1980s and 1990s. The King, however, has routinely granted pardons to most people jailed for lèse majesté. In March 2007, Swiss national Oliver Jufer was convicted of lèse majesté and sentenced to 10 years for spray-painting on several portraits of the king while drunk in Chiang Mai, Thailand. Jufer was pardoned by the king on April 12, 2007. In March 2008, Police Colonel Watanasak Mungkijakarndee filed a similar case against Jakrapob Penkhair for comments made in a Foreign Correspondents' Club (FCCT) event in August 2007. In 2008 BBC south-east Asia correspondent Jonathan Head was accused of lèse majesté three times by Colonel Watanasak Mungkijakarndee. In the most recent case Watanasak filed new charges highlighting a conspiracy connecting Jonathan Head to Veera Musikapong at the FCCT.Canberra Thai Embassy Minister counselor, Saksee Phromyothi, on Wednesday defended the country's harsh lèse majesté, saying that, "under Thailand's constitution, the king was above politics and was prevented from publicly defending himself from personal attacks." Mr. Saksee explained that "99 per cent of foreigners convicted under this law get pardoned and then we deport them."MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA — Members of the Australian public, as well as celebrities and politicians have been fasting in recent weeks in empathy with a large contingent of Iranian asylum seekers. Meanwhile, the Iranian men are understood to be receiving medical treatment, some having broken their fast after more than two weeks of starvation.Two Melburnians, Juliana Qian and Emily Smith, held a 24-hour fast, including a 12-hour public vigil at the city's central Flinders Street Station on Christmas Day. Seventeen-year-old Ms Qian said, "I want to show my support to the detainees, and to draw attention to their situation. Many Iranians have been detained in Australia for four or five years. There is much evidence to suggest these detainees would be persecuted if deported to Iran."Senator Andrew Bartlett, of the Australian Democrats Party, fasted for five days earlier in the week, hoping to draw attention to the plight of asylum seekers in the nation's controversial immigration system, which is highly intolerant of what it calls "unauthorised" arrivals. Artist and convenor of Spare Rooms for Refugees, Kate Durham, comedian Corrine Grant, actor and vice-president of Actors for Refugees, Diana Greentree, writer Arnold Zable, and musician Kavisha Mazzella have also fasted. Other Australians continue fasting in a rolling programme of three days each, with the last of these planned to end on New Year's Eve with a vigil outside St Stephen's Cathedral in Brisbane.Most of the hunger striking detainees have been in high security detention for over four years, with no assigned date for release or repatriation. As many as 27 were starving themselves during this particular episode, and some had sewed their lips. Three others had staged a rooftop protest.A letter from the hunger striking detainees explains their reasons for fasting, and for some having broken fast. "We ... listened to their plea for us to end the hunger strike and have therefore decided to start eating again on Christmas Day as a sign of our good will and friendship."It saddens us that you have chosen to ignore until now all the information about us Arab-Iranians which we and our friends have provided to you, your Minister and her Department. We have demonstrated that our Arab minority suffers disadvantages and persecution in Iran and that, no matter what our individual situation, we all had to flee home because we were striving for more freedom and justice for our people. We are real and genuine refugees."It is unconscionable that we are not allowed to submit this information or that DIMIA and the Australian courts should not be permitted to consider it, contrary to other civilized countries. How can we prove our case when the authorities will not acknowledge the independent information we have provided?"Australia's Department of Immigration Multiculturalism and Indigenous Affairs is notorious for ignoring information provided in support of detainees, while upholding that similarly sourced information proves the detainees claims of asylum are ungrounded. One such case is the Bakhtyari family, being deported over Christmas. Verified documents indicating an Afghan origin for the family are disputed by the Department, while apparently forged documents are held by the department as sufficient to show that the family are natives of Pakistan, hence their current, and ongoing 'repatriation' to that country.The Department has for a number of years ignored recommendations by the Australian Government's own Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission to improve processing conditions for asylum seekers, particularly with respect to the issue of children in detention. Independent organisations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch also have repeatedly condemned the Australian system.Politicians in the Australian Federal Government express confidence in this system, such as Alexander Downer, Foreign Minister, on the Bakhtiyaris: "If you're found not to be a refugee and you've been falsely claiming to be a refugee you should go back home and they should go back to Pakistan where they came from."Major media outlets have told an Australian senate committee on environment, communications and the arts that Australians are being denied full coverage of sporting events.They have told the inquiry that major sporting organisations are restricting how photos and text can be used on the internet and other digital media, which is threatening the reporting of sport as news.Sporting organisations have hit back saying that such online content is a big money earner for them. They say that the money earned from those rights gets invested in grassroots programs.Australian Associated Press asked the committee to recommend legislation guaranteeing the right of news media cover major sporting events."AAP reporting and photography are the lifeblood of news for regional and rural newspapers across the country," Fairfax Media, publisher of The Sydney Morning Herald, The Age and a number of regional papers, said in its submission. "Millions of Australians are being prevented from receiving full AAP coverage of major sporting events. When photographs of sport events are privatised, all forms of journalism are vulnerable to such restrictions.""AAP believes that the most effective way to protect the public interest in receiving news about sporting and related events is to have a legislated provision for right of access for news media," AAP's submission says.The Australian Football League, in its submission, also argued for legislative amendments, but to the Copyright Act. Their recommendations would see the use of audio-visual, photographic and audio media restricted in the digital domain."To avoid protracted disputes with media organisations and to ensure a minimum standard of protection across digital sports news reporting in Australia, AFL believes that the best means of introducing these restrictions is by way of amendments to the Copyright Act or a mandatory industry code," the AFL's submission said.Wikinews asked the AFL, Football Federation Australia and the Sunshine Coast Daily for comment. The AFL refused to comment until after their submission was formally made to the committee.Police in the Lower Austrian town of Amstetten have arrested a 73 year old man who is alleged to have kept his daughter, now aged 42, locked in the cellar of his house in Amstetten since 29th August 1984. The man, identified by police as Josef Fritzl, is alleged to have started sexually abusing his daughter, named as Elisabeth Fritzl, when she was eleven years old, and to have subsequently fathered seven children by her. One of the children, one of a set of twins born in 1996, died of neglect shortly after birth and the body was burned by the father. The surviving six children, three boys and three girls, are currently aged between 5 and 20 years old. Three of the children were left on Josef F.'s doorstep and subsequently raised as the adoptive children of Josef F. and his wife, Rosemarie, while the other three children were left with their mother and never saw daylight until she was discovered. Rosemarie F. is said to have been unaware of her husbands' activities.Police became suspicious when a 19-year-old daughter, Kerstin, was taken to hospital with a mysterious life-threatening illness, and the family's medical records were checked. Police say that Elisabeth F. appeared to be "greatly disturbed" psychologically, and only agreed to talk after the authorities assured her that she would not have to have contact with her father, and that her children would be cared for.The news has shocked Austria, recalling the case of Natascha Kampusch who was kidnapped aged 10, and escaped after being held in a "dungeon" for eight years in 2006.DNA tests are to be undertaken to confirm the paternity of the children.An Austrian man charged with keeping his daughter prisoner in a dungeon for 24 years and fathering her seven children, has pleaded guilty to rape, incest, false imprisonment and coercion but innocent to enslavement and Murder|murder at the start of his trial today.Josef Fritzl, 73, allegedly began imprisoning and raping his daughter Elisabeth, now 42, on August 8, 1984. He lured her to the basement where she was locked in a room, handcuffed and drugged. He is charged with incest, false imprisonment, murder, rape and the enslavement. The murder charge stems from allegations that Fritzl murdered a twin of one of the children. He then disposed of the body by placing the corpse into a heated oven, burning the body. Police say the child had died shortly after being born.Police became suspicious when a 19-year-old daughter, Kerstin, was taken to hospital with a mysterious life-threatening illness, and the family's medical records were checked. Police say that Elisabeth F. appeared to be "greatly disturbed" psychologically, and only agreed to talk after the authorities assured her that she would not have to have contact with her father, and that her children would be cared for. When authorities arrived at his home, Fritzl told police what he had done. Of the surviving six children, there are three boys and three girls, between 5 and 20 years old.The 27 page indictment says that Fritzl "had equipped it [the cellar] with a double bed, a wash basin, a toilet, a TV, a video recorder, an oven and plastic crockery. In the cellar there was no daylight or fresh air. The only opportunity to wash was in a sink, there was no shower. There was also no hot water or heating." The indictment also stated that Fritzl's actions were "premeditated."Fritzl's lawyer, Rudolf Mayer, opened the trial saying that Fritzl was "not a monster" and that Fritzl "was scared [and] regrets his actions". As a precaution to prevent media infiltration and Fritzl's escape, authorities issued a no-fly warning above the courtroom. Fritzl was arrested on April 27, 2008, in his home in Amstetten and if convicted, he would spend the rest of his life behind bars without the possibility of parole. The minimum sentence is said to be at least 15 years in prison. The trial is expected to last one week.Austrian police today found an estimated 20–50 decomposing corpses in an apparently abandoned lorry.Roadworkers who spotted the vehicle, which had been there since yesterday at least, alerted police. Responding officers found it full of corpses. The lorry is on the so-called "Eastern Motorway", the A4, close to the Hungarian border. It was on the hard shoulder between Neusiedl and Parndorf, closer to Parndorf.The victims are thought to have suffocated. Police are seeking the driver. The Krone published an image of a non-articulated food lorry on the hard shoulder, which they report is the vehicle in question. The photo shows a pool of dark liquid on the ground beside the vehicle.Video from a passing motorist shows at least one helicopter on-scene. The truck, which has pictures of meat on the side, shows branding for Slovakian food firm Hyza. Earlier today the company's website sported an apparent anti-immigration graphic, which has since been removed.Wikinews got in touch with Hyza. "We are truly sorry about [the] tragedy" they told us in a statement. They said they have checked GPS trackers on their fleet and all their vehicles remain in Slovakia. The statement says the lorry in question was one of 21 Hyza vehicles sold on last year. It was then sold again and exported to Hungary, where it is now registered. Hyza told us the new owners have not changed the branding on the vehicle. According to the Bild newspaper, Agrofert -- the parent company of Hyza -- said in a statement the new owners were required to do so.Hyza says they will "actively cooperate with Slovak police", and "express [their] sincere condolences to the bereaved families."Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner called it "a dark day" and called for European Union-wide measures to protect immigrant refugees and tackle human traffickers. Neighbouring Hungary is constructing a border fence across its entire frontier with Serbia. Yesterday alone saw a record 3,241 attempts to enter Hungary illegally, according to authorities there.Conflict in Syria and other parts of the world has led refugees to Europe. Once inside, they can move freely inside the Schengen Area, which covers most of the EU.Austrian police earlier this week arrested three motorists suspected of people smuggling. One driver is accused of moving 34 people, ten of them children, into Austria from Serbia. The group were left by the roadside near Bruck an der Leitha and reported struggling to breathe in the van.An eighteen year old Austrian girl, who was held captive by a 44 year-old man in the basement of his house for eight years, said that she is mourning his suicide, which he committed after she escaped from him.Natascha Kampusch, abducted on her way to school eight years ago, had been "part of [her captor's] life." Police and investigators, unable to find a single lead or tip of her whereabouts, had all but given up hope of finding her alive and well until last week, when Natascha fled from her captor, Wolfgang Priklopil, a telecoms technician  after he left her cleaning his car to answer the telephone. Natascha's abductor, Wolfgang Priklopil, committed suicide hours after Natascha's escape by throwing himself in front of a train only minutes after he realized her escape.After hearing of Priklopil's death, Kampusch wrote "..[Priklopil] was part of my life, that's why in a certain way I'm mourning him". Psychoanalysts believe Kampusch may be suffering from Stockholm Syndrome, a psychological condition in which captives begin to feel empathy, and even affection, for their captors.   Psychoanalysts are well represented in Vienna as Sigmund Freud, the founder of Psychoanalysis was Viennese. After eight years with her captor, Kampusch is spending time receiving care from psychologists at a secret location, away from the media and her parents.  Natasha spoke at first but later became more reticent and reluctant to answer questions.  A psychiatrist feared a "delayed trauma".Kampusch's parents expressed their frustration on not being allowed to have access to their daughter. Nevertheless, psychiatric staff with the girl have said that Kampusch needs time to re-adjust to life in the outside world. In a letter to her parents, Kampush stated that they would have "...all the time in the world..." once she had become re-accustomed to the outside.  Psychologists claim she may lead a normal future life but probably will require years of psychological therapy.  Ludwig Koch, her father said, "Natascha is very thin, has very, very white skin, and patches on her whole body. I don't want to think where they come from."  She may be suppressing physical or sexual abuse. Early on she had to call her captor "master" or "lord".Wikinews interviewed author Amy Scobee about her book Scientology - Abuse at the Top, and asked her about her experiences working as an executive within the organization. Scobee joined the organization at age 14, and worked at Scientology's international management headquarters for several years before leaving in 2005. She served as a Scientology executive in multiple high-ranking positions, working out of the international headquarters of Scientology known as "Gold Base", located in Gilman Hot Springs near Hemet, California.A new book claims that Al-Qaeda made plans to gas the New York subway system in 2003.  According to extracts due to be published in next week's Time magazine, the author of The One Percent Doctrine, Ron Suskind, asserts that Al-Qaeda's number 2 cancelled the attack 45 days before it was due.Suskinds book states "U.S. intelligence learned of the plot from a laptop computer belonging to a Bahraini jihadist captured in Saudi Arabia in early 2003."The book continues, "The computer contained plans for an easily constructed and concealed device that releases deadly hydrogen-cyanide gas using a remote trigger."The CIA built a prototype of those designs shown on the computer and then showed it to the United States President, George W. Bush. The President then ordered an alert to all levels of the US government.Al-Qaeda had planned to put them in the subway cars and other strategic places.Wikinews interviewed author Nancy Many about her book My Billion Year Contract, and asked her about life working in the elite Scientology group known as the "Sea Org". Many joined Scientology in the early 1970s, and after leaving in 1996 she later testified against the organization. Published in October, Many's book has gone on to become one of the top selling new books on Scientology at Amazon.com.Brian Chase, 38, of Nashville, Tennessee, hand-delivered a letter to the offices of John Seigenthaler Sr. in which he admits responsibility for false information he anonymously posted in a Wikipedia article.  Initially a prank played on a friend, the false story claimed that Seigenthaler was a suspect in the assassination of President Kennedy. The fake biography made rounds in the media after Seigenthaler discovered and denounced it in a USA Today op-ed article titled "A false Wikipedia 'biography'".  A known free speech advocate, Seigenthaler refused to press charges. He recommended that Chase be re-hired for the job he was forced to quit when reporters, following leads from ad-hoc cyber detective Daniel Brandt, 57, of San Antonio, Texas, started calling the offices of his employer.Authorities announced yesterday that last month approximately 687 endangered pig-nosed turtles were seized at the Sorkarno-Hatta International Airport in the Indonesian capital city of Jakarta. The turtles were reportedly destined for the city of Hong Kong, China.Teguh Samudro the head of BKIMP, the Indonesian quarantine said yesterday: "The packages were broken when they arrived at the airport, so we could tell what was inside"; "We don't know where they were being sent as the address on the package does not exist". He noted the turtles are to be returned shortly to their native Papua habitat.He went on to say that, "Violators of the 1992 law on animal, fish and plant quarantines or the 1990 law on biodiversity and ecosystem conservation face up to three years’ imprisonment and fines of up to Rp 150 million (US$15,400)." The person who sent the endangered turtles has not yet been identified.The Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora aims to ensure that international trade of animals and plants a risk of extinction are restricted, the pig-nosed turtle species are listed. They are at risk of extinction after having been smuggled for many years and the The Jakarta Post reports that 15 centimeter long adult pig-nosed turtles can get up to US$2,000 on the black market.Authorities have been contacted after a threat was made on the online encyclopedia Wikipedia. A user called Deathboy52 made an edit threatening violence at Thomas Grover Middle School, New Jersey. The incident was reported to Wikipedia's 'Administrators' noticeboard', where the reporting user said that the edit "absolutely needs to be reported to the school and the local police."The user who made the edits has been blocked indefinitely from editing Wikipedia as a result of the threats made. Wikinews has learnt that the person who made the threats also edited the article on Sudan, in which he added  "Halo therreewada WArr Destruction Deathboy," to the article.The threats were described by Wikipedia user  Bongwarrior as death threats, although Wikinews has not seen the threat due to the fact that it was removed from the Wikipedia database.In a similar incident which occurred last month, a student at Glen A. Wilson High School in Hacienda Heights, California was arrested on suspicion of making criminal threats against students. The student arrested, described as a male minor by Hacienda La Puente Unified School District police, confessed to making threats against students at the high school via a post to the Wikipedia article about the school.According to St. Johns County Sheriff's Office in Julington Creek, Florida ten homes had to be temporarily evacuated after a suspicious package was left on a doorstep of a home on West Pleasant Place in the city and featured a photo of the skyline of New York City and the former World Trade Center towers."We have a Sept. 11 scene - a scene of New York City prior to Sept. 11. After that fact, we're not going to too many specifics about the device itself, certainly we'll let ATF and our investigators look at that," said Chuck Mulligan, St. Johns County officer.The tenants were not expecting a package and called police to report it as being suspicious. The bomb squad responded and used a special robot to look at the package and open it. When the robot opened the package, authorities saw what appeared to be a bomb. They then detonated the package two times, both of which exploded. After recovering the material, they determined that two pipe bombs had been inside the package."Normally, even if someone has designed a package to look as though it's an explosive device, we find nothing explosive inside. Certainly different today," added Mulligan.It is still unknown who placed the bombs on the doorstep and why they did it. So far no arrests have been made and no suspects have been announced. Authorities have set up a tip line for anyone who has information on the case.According to reports, authorities in Belgium have seized documents, financial records and computer equipment from the local branch of the Church of Scientology (Church) and then sealed off the building.The reports state that the Church in Belgium is being investigated for extortion and fraud for allegedly posting false job openings in newspapers and then attempting to get those who applied to join the Church. Several ex-members of the Church have also reportedly approached authorities with accusations of intimidation and extortion.Police in Belgium have been investigating the Church for nearly ten years which resulted in the raid on Thursday.In a statement to the press, the Church says that the police "violated their fundamental rights" as a religious organization and accused the police of "malicious justice operations." The Church plans to contest any charges filed against it. They also state that the postings were requests for volunteers and not employees.So far no arrests have been made, but some employees of the Church were detained and questioned by police.The building remains closed as of publication.German authorities have searched the homes of Theodor Reppe, a 32-year-old student who owns the "wikileaks.de" domain. Reppe has homes in Dresden and Jena in Germany. Wikileaks describes itself as an "uncensorable Wikipedia for untraceable mass document leaking and analysis."The police report obtained by Wikileaks states the reasons for the raid were "distribution of pornographic material" and "discovery of evidence". Wikileaks, however, asserts that the raid was in connection to Wikileaks hosting "censorship lists" of websites blocked by governments in Australia, Denmark, and Thailand. Wikileaks most recently published an alleged list from the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA). The list contains thousands of URLs that are blocked when internet service providers use the government's software. Most URLs are alleged child porn sites and gambling sites. One of the blocked URLs on the ACMA's list included an image previously hosted on Wikimedia Commons. Wikileaks does not host and has never published child pornography.Wikileaks goes on to allege that Mr Reppe was not properly informed of his rights when the searches were taking place. According to Wikileaks, authorities demanded the German domain be shut down and asked that passwords for the domain be handed over to them. The 'wikileaks.de' domain is a mirror of 'wikileaks.org', and had been registered to Mr Reppe since at least November 2007. As of this report the website was still operating. Reppe and Wikileaks have not been charged with any crimes and no arrests have been made. Wikileaks also says that Reppe refused to sign any documentation from authorities "due to its inaccuracies".In what is becoming an annual phenomenon in France, 400 cars were set ablaze during the New Year's night. Authorities say this is lower than the usual amount.In 2006, an average of 112 cars a day were torched across France. There were 15 attacks per day on police and emergency services. Almost 3,000 police officers were injured in clashes with residents. In four separate ambushes, officers were badly injured in the Paris suburbs since September. Police speak of open war with youths who are bent on more than vandalism.British Grammy Award winning singer George Michael has been cautioned over drug use. The 45 year old singer was caught with class A and C drugs in the Hampstead Heath area of London. He was arrested on 19 September after being caught in the public toilet. British Home Office Minister Tony McNulty said drug laws needed to be "flexible". He stated he did not know the details of the case when questioned why Michael was given a mild sentence. Michael was banned from driving for two years after being caught slumped behind the wheel of his car twice. He pleaded guilty to driving while unfit through drugs. On May 15, 2006 Michael was found semi-conscious apparently snoozing at traffic lights while in his Range Rover. In the early hours of October 1, 2006, Michael was found unconscious in his Mercedes-Benz S-Class car, causing an obstruction. Michael found his fame as front man of pop band Wham!. He won two Grammy awards as well as 12 British number one singles. Michael announced that he would be retiring from touring after completing his first tour in 15 years last month. He announced that he would release a Christmas single in December.Azerbaijan Minister of Finance Samir Sharifov allegedly worked as a "triple agent" for Russian, Turkish, and US intelligence agencies, according to a report by Ukrainian online newspaper Gordon last Wednesday.Sharifov allegedly worked as a human asset for the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service before Turkish intelligence recruited him in South Yemen in 1989–1990. Soon after, he allegedly began working for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). In the Gordon article, their source ascribed this information to "sources in the Russian intelligence community" who said, "[Russia's] agencies penetrated the U.S. intelligence community and obtained important information about some of its human assets."The claims made in the article have not been verified, according to Russian newspaper Нефть России ((ru))Russian language: ‍Oil of Russia.Mais Piriyev, press secretary for the Azerbaijan Ministry of Finance, said Sharifov would not comment on what Piriyev called provocative, ridiculous claims. Piriyev told reporters, "Lack of seriousness in Yuri Shvet's claims can be seen immediately. Only three countries? Where [is] Mossad, special services of the UK and other countries?"Former Azerbaijani diplomat Arif Mammadov has publicly supported the accusations. In a statement on social media, Mammadov wrote, "The country has a very powerful network that is working against the state. It consists of the most influential people — ministers, deputy ministers, senior representatives of the presidential administration."The Gordon article was published on the eve of Sharifov's trip to the United States to discuss financing for the Southern Gas Corridor energy project.According to an announcement from Gwent Police, a baby boy has died after being found abandoned behind a convenience store in Gwent, Wales. The boy, who has not yet been identified, was found behind a Spar convenience store in the town of Cwmcarn at 1815 GMT on Tuesday. The baby was found to be wrapped in a towel which was in a plastic shopping bag. Bystanders who were walking past the scene mistakenly believed that the bag had been unintentionally left there by a person who had visited the gym that is located next to the store.A 14-year-old boy, who is the son of the man who owns the convenience store, then examinied the bag and discovered the baby. He made a phone call to the emergency services, however, when the baby was taken to Royal Gwent Hospital, it was pronounced dead on arrival. The baby was younger than one day old at the time of his death. A post-mortem examination proved to be indeterminate. Gwent Police have now launched an investigation to try and determine the identity of the baby's mother.Gursewak Singh, the father of the person who discovered the baby and the owner of the shop, explained: "We asked friends and colleagues what the bag was doing there, but it didn't belong to anyone. A boy who works with us said it was just a towel in there and he didn't open it. In the evening I went out to it and opened it, only saw a towel on top and didn't look thoroughly. I just thought it was clothes underneath and didn't want to root through them. I picked it up and hanged it on the gatepost so someone walking by might see it and recognise it as theirs. At about six o'clock there was a power cut and my 14-year-old son went out and picked up the bag and opened it and saw a little head in there. He called his uncle and said: 'It's not clothes, come and look'. They came over and saw the baby in there." Singh commented that this incident "was shocking. We were all devastated. I wish we had checked earlier. If we had gone through the bag we could have made a difference. I'm worried what sort of condition the person who left the bag is in. We are so concerned about her. Other people saw the bag, but nobody thought about it. There could be a baby still alive. I wish we had checked straight away."Gwent Police member Superintendent John Burley stated about this case: "We are extremely concerned about the health and wellbeing of the mother of the baby and are appealing for her to come forward to receive any medical treatment she may require. This is a tragic incident which will sadden the local community and our priority at the moment is finding the mother of the baby. I would appeal to anyone who may have been in the vicinity of the Spar store on Thursday morning or afternoon who may be able to offer any information to assist our inquiry."Drinks, drugs, violence, promiscuity: British youth at the top or near the top of the bad youth list. And they frighten grown ups.A report by the Institute of Public Policy Research, to be published next week, describes British youth as among the worst in Europe. The study compares teenage English and Scots with their counterparts in other European countries. Fewer British youths ate regularly with their family, and many more spent most evenings with their friends; they were drunk more often, got involved in fights and more had sex than other European youth.More British adults than Continental adults would be reluctant to intervene should they see youths vandalising a bus shelter fearing a violent response.  Many adults were fearful of leaving home after dark and a large number were thinking of moving home because of youths "hanging about".The demonisation of youth in the British media is said to have induced real fear in many adults.Many more comparisons are made in this report.A series of threats have been made to Baghdad barbers who have been cashing in on the upsurge in popularity of 'Marine' and french hairstyles amongst Baghdad youths.  Over the past few weeks barbers were warned not to cut beards and not to offer the western hairstyles, unless they wanted 'swords over their necks'.  Many barbers have put up signs saying that taboo haircuts are not available in their shops.  Those who flout these threats have been killed.According to Maj. Col. Abbas Dilemi of the Baghdad Police, some of the extremists have been caught, but they have turned out to be criminals paid by third parties to make the threats and carry out the murders of those who ignore them.Mr. Mohamed Sa'eed, a leading figure in the Iraqi Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution, has castigated those responsible for the threats saying: 'and now groups from abroad come carrying temporary ideology that did not exist even in the Middle Ages,' then stated that there 'should be no compulsion in religion' whilst calling for juristic and intellectual work to defeat extremism.A suicide car bomb exploded yesterday outside a government forensic center in Baghdad, Iraq. According to government sources, at least eighteen people died in the incident while 80 were injured.The suicide bomber attempted to drive through a police checkpoint and demolish the walls of the forensic center, located in the Kerrada district. The building was badly hit by the explosion. Fire engines and ambulances rushed to the scene, with rescue workers searching the rubble for bodies.An eyewitness, Hassan al-Saidi, stated: "I've heard many explosions in the past, but nothing like this." He claimed that he saw five demolished vehicles and at least a dozen people injured by shrapnel.Iraqi military spokesperson Major General Qassim Atta said the forensics center had been targeted twice in the past. The latest incident came one day after an attack on three separate Iraqi hotels claimed 36 lives. Major General Qassim al-Moussawi, who is the security operations spokesman, had earlier claimed that security had been tightened after the hotel blasts and a committee had been formed to probe into the attack. "Because we are at war, we expect such terrorist attacks [...] Al Qaeda is still able to mount such attacks occasionally where there are weaknesses in our security measures," said Moussawi, before Tuesday's blast.The attack is the latest of a series of bombings at ministry offices and other secure centers. It comes few weeks before March 7, the day of Iraq's general elections.A judge in Baghdad, Iraq has cleared two men of murdering six soldiers from the United Kingdom. Hamza Hateer and Mussa Ismael al Fartusi had their case kicked out prior to trial owing to a lack of evidence; they were alleged to be involved in a June 2003 mob attack on a police station.At today's hearing, which had been postponed by a month to allow witnesses to travel, a panel of three judges spent three and a half hours to question those who were there. Sources disagree on the number of witnesses—between nine and eleven—none of whom said they had seen the accused participate in any violence. Most of those questioned were Iraqi police.The killings in Majar al-Kabir followed a dispute at the local market in which British soldiers had argued with Iraqis over the use of dogs to search, which the locals were upset about, according to policeman Ahmed Hassan Sayed. He said gunfire followed and the soldiers killed around ten people. "I was inside the [police] station with the British soldiers. They had been coming twice a week for training... I heard sounds of shooting that got closer and closer. We saw a lot of people approaching the building. I told all my employees to leave. I also told the British to leave."Sayed went on to say in his testimony that the British soldiers had refused to leave as they felt they were in the clear since they were present for training only. The police left the station via a back window; the British remained in the courtyard while around 400 people attacked. "What I understand is that this was an act of tribal vengeance. They wanted justice for the killing of their relatives," explained Sayed. "We fled through the back window and the British stayed behind."Although no witnesses saw either defendant engaged in violence, one stated that Hateer took a dead man's weapon; he will be tried for its theft. The pair were among eight whose arrests were anounced in February; six were released without charge.Judge Balee Hamdi told The Guardian that in releasing the men "I built my decisions on the evidence that was before me. The evidence was not sufficient to convict them." He also said that should rebels be convicted before him "[i]f they are here for resistance against occupiers, I will try to lessen the sentence."A Ministry of Defence—the British organisation responsible for the country's army—spokesman responded to the news by saying that she knew that the victim's families will be "very disappointed," but, they said, "we have no choice but to respect the decision of the Iraqi judges. They will have weighed up the credibility and reliability of the evidence before reaching their verdict." They added: "However, this is not the end. Seven further arrest warrants remain outstanding and are being actively pursued by the Iraqi authorities."File:Vangpao.pngVang Pao, the Hmong military leader charged with plotting to overthrow the government of Laos, was ordered yesterday by a United States federal court judge to remain in custody without bail.U.S. Magistrate Edmund Brennan ruled that Vang Pao, 77, despite his age and ill health, posed too great a danger and a flight risk to be released."It's not up to private groups to decide which countries the United States should be at war with and at peace with," Brennan said.Vang Pao and nine other people, mostly members of the Hmong immigrant community in California's Central Valley, were arrested last week in a sting operation by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Authorities say the group was planning to buy a cache of arms, ship them to Thailand and then smuggle them into Laos, where they would blow up government buildings in Vientiane, the Laotian capital.Outside the federal courthouse in Sacramento, California yesterday, about 2,000 white-clad supporters rallied for Vang Pao's release, holding portraits of the former Royal Lao Army general and waving signs saying "Honor your war heroes – don't jail them" and "Free our leader.""He is to us like George Washington is to American citizens," Vang Zang, a Hmong leader from Minnesota was quoted as saying to the crowd by the Sacramento Bee. "The government has wrongly accused our father. But the moment he is released, he will go up ten times in popularity."Vang Pao led a covert Hmong army backed by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency during the Laotian Civil War, or the "Secret War", which paralleled the U.S. fight against communism in Vietnam and the Vietnam War.Since immigrating to the U.S. after the fall of Laos to communism in 1975, Vang Pao has become an American citizen and is viewed as a folk hero by the Hmong people.Vang Pao's attorneys are Thomas Heffelfinger, a former federal prosecutor hired by Vang Pao's supporters, and John Balazs, a court-appointed defense lawyer from Sacramento. They argued that Vang Pao is "a man of peace" and too old and infirm to be jailed. Doing so, Balazs said, "could be a death sentence."It's possible that Vang Pao could safely be released to house arrest and that access to communications devices be restricted, Balaz told the magistrate.Nonetheless, Balazs also described his client as "a warrior, this is a legal battle, and he's in it to the end."Assistant U.S. Attorney Bob Twiss argued that Vang Pao is too dangerous and influential, and could still organize a plot no matter what restrictions were placed on him if he were freed."Thousands of people came here on the day of his detention hearing," Twiss was quoted as saying in an interview with Associated Press. "If General Vang Pao were to pick up a cellphone, is there any doubt they wouldn't execute his order? To me, it was an indication of his ability to effectuate action indirectly."The lawyer for one of the members of the so called Bali Nine is claiming he will challenge the legality of the indictment against his client. Adnan Wirawan, the lawyer of Martin Stephens from Wollongong, says his client has been unfairly accused as being the ring leader of an alleged conspiracy to smuggle drugs: "He's a human suitcase... he was being told what to do." Stephens appeared in Denpasar District Court on Wednesday. The prosecution claimed that Stephens and Renae Lawrence, from Newcastle, had their hotel and trip to Bali paid for by the accused mastermind, Andrew Chan.Stephens' mother, Michelle, was in court for her son's first appearance and says she will support him throughout his trial: "I'm here to support my son, and I love him and I believe in him. And that's all I can say."The Bali Nine have been dealt another blow with the Federal Court of Australia dismissing an application for them to gain access to documents held by the Australian Federal Police (AFP).The application was bought to court on behalf of Scott Rush, Renae Lawrence, Martin Stephens and Michael Czugaj, four of the nine Australians being held in Indonesia for allegedly attempting to smuggle heroin out of Bali.Their lawyers have claimed that the AFP may have acted illegally by passing information onto Indonesian authorities, which led to their arrest. In Indonesia, convicted drug smugglers may face the death penalty, which Australia is opposed to.The basis of the argument is that the AFP provided information knowing that Australians could be sentenced to death if the information was correct.When handing his ruling down in Adelaide, Justice Paul Finn said "It is now the applicants' position that each of them, in their capacity as Australian citizens, has a substantiative legitimate expectation that the Australian government, its agencies and public officers will not act in such a way as to expose them to the risk of the imposition of the death penalty,""(But) there would be no arguable basis at all for any contention that AFP officers had a legal responsibility to warn any of the applicants either that they were under police surveillance or that they were exposing themselves to the foreseeable risk of the death penalty."Having been prepared for whatever reason to engage in criminal activity, the applicants would properly be regarded as the authors of their own harm."And the police would have been entitled to have treated them as no more than subjects of an ongoing criminal investigation which fell clearly within the mandated functions of the AFP."The ringleaders of the so-called Bali Nine were today sentenced to death by a Denpasar court. Andrew Chan received the news via translators at about 3:45 p.m. AEDT, and Myuran Sukumaran was sentenced at about 4:50 p.m. AEDT. The two were charged with attempting to smuggle 8.3 kg of heroin from Bali to Australia.The Australian Federal Police have been criticised for allowing the Bali Nine to travel to Indonesia, where it was known they could face the death penalty. Yesterday two other drug mules, Renae Lawrence and Scott Rush, were sentenced to life imprisonment.Prosecutors asked for the death penalty for both men. Chan was alleged to be the mastermind of the operation, and Myuran was alleged to be an enforcer. Chan, who claimed to have rediscovered his Christian faith, prayed for divine intervention prior to the sentence being handed down. Outside the court Indonesian protesters shouted "Death! Death!". Chan fell over after jostling with a media scrum,  and Sukumaran threw a bottle of water at the media.Donald Rothwell, a Professor of International Law at the University of Sydney, has said that, unlike countries such as Singapore, it may not be long before the two are executed."The Indonesian judicial system is one in which death sentences are often carried out very quickly," he said."So unlike the situation of Van Nguyen in Singapore, where an appeal process and a clemency process played out over quite some time, this may not be the situation in Bali."Foreign Affairs Minister Alexander Downer told parliament today that he had made a direct request to the Indonesian government that the death penalty not be imposed. "On the 18th of December last year, I wrote to the Indonesian Attorney-General reminding him that the Australian Government was opposed to the death sentence and we didn't want to see, in the context of the Bali nine, any of the Australians sentenced to death," he said.In Bali the death sentence is carried out by firing squad.Friends and family mourned further today by releasing balloons into the Manchester sky, after it was revealed that one of the triple murder victims from Fallowfield's "Triple murder massacre" achieved two As and a B in her A-level exams.Around 100 balloons were released some with her papers documenting her grades at Parrswood Technology College. Kesha Wizzart was brutally murdered with her mother, Beverley Samuels and her brother, Fred Wizzart in July 2007. The suspect charged with their murders is 32 year-old Pierre Williams, originating from Birmingham.Hundreds of past and present friends payed tribute to the student at the multiple burial at Oxford Road's Holy Name of Jesus Church in Manchester. A statement released by Greater Manchester Police on behalf of the family read: "It will be incredibly difficult to say goodbye to Beverley, Kesha and Fred, but we want this to be a day for us to remember how they lived rather than the way they died. We want to celebrate the life, love and light they brought to some many."  Kesha studied English, Law and Philosophy and died at the age of 18 on July 12, 2007.Police in Baltimore County, Maryland asked for the public's help to find 23-year-old Matthew P. Keenan.  Police said an arrest warrant had been issued for Keenan on the charge of failing to update his information with Maryland's State Sex Offender Registry.Police described Keenan as a white male, 5'6" (1.7 m) tall, 150 pounds (68 kg) with brown hair and brown eyes.  They believed Keenan was last seen in the Armistead Gardens neighborhood of Baltimore, Maryland.Mandatory registration for offenders convicted of certain sexual or violent crimes began in Maryland after 1994.  Addresses of offenders have been made public.According to the registry, Keenan is a child sex offender.  Detectives added that Keenan was convicted of raping a child in 2002.  This conviction led to the requirement that Keenan keep his current address on file with the registry.  Keenan's last verified address listed with the registry was in the 3700-block of North Point Road in Dundalk, Maryland.Police asked those with information on Keenan to call them at 410-307-2020 or Metro Crime Stoppers at 1-866-756-2587.Access to search engine Google has been limited and most of Google's online services cannot be accessed in Turkey. The access limitation happened due to the blocking of an IP set that belongs to Google. These IP addresses were shared between YouTube and other Google services.The Turkish news site Hürriyet Daily News reports that Turkey's Telecommunications Communication Presidency (TCP) (a government agency that manages Turkish ISPs) indefinitely shut off access to several Google services. The shut-off came after the banning of YouTube for alleged insults against Turkish Republic founder Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. TCP released an official statement Friday, saying it had blocked access to some Google IP addresses "because of legal reasons". Under Turkish law, it is an offence to "insult Turkishness."Softpedia states that the limited access to Google could be a result of the government trying to block specific DNS addresses that relate to Google, as part of its ongoing attempts to block YouTube. Since Google services share common software and IP addresses, the search engine itself suffers from access restrictions. Turkish citizens are concerned that this move of the governmental agency was another step towards a complete ban on Google, as exists in China.Several Internet sites have been banned in Turkey in recent years, and although some of them were subsequently unbanned, most of them remain inaccessible. Engelli Web, a website listing banned sites reports that currently YouTube (since May 2008), Last.fm (since June 26, 2009), and Spanish newspaper El Mundo (since May 14, 2010) are among the banned sites in Turkey. MySpace and WordPress were also among banned sites for a period of time. Websites will be blocked following a court decision or if TCP decides to block on its behalf.RetweetToday reports that Turkish citizens on Twitter have also reported access problems. Comments about the blockage are being shared using hashtags such as TurkeyCensorGoogle and TurkeyGoogleBan, as well as NoGoogleNoWeb.Families of victims of the Station nightclub fire, which killed 100 people on Rhode Island in 2003, have expressed their support for the parole of Great White band manager Daniel Biechele, currently 16 months into a four year jail sentence for his role in the disaster.Biechele admitted to illegally setting off the pyrotechnics that started the fire, and broke down as he told victims' relatives that he couldn't expect their forgiveness. He has been jailed since May 2006.The pyrotechnics ignited highly flammable soundproofing foam in the nightclub, and the ensuing rapid conflagration trapped people in the building. Many families have expressed their belief that venue owners Jeffrey and Michael Derderian maintained the building in an unsafe state. Michael received another four-year sentence but is not yet eligible for parole, while Jeffrey avoided prison time.Leland Hoisington, whose 28-year-old daughter Abbie was killed in the fire, told reporters "I think they should not even bother with a hearing _ just let Biechele out... I just don't find him as guilty of anything." The state parole board received approximately 20 letters, the majority of which expressed their sympathy and support for Daniel, some going as far as describing him as a "scapegoat" of limited responsibility.Board chairwoman Lisa Holley told journalists of her surprise at the forgiving of the families, saying "I think the most overwhelming part of it for me was the depth of forgiveness of many of these families that have sustained such a loss,". A letter written by Dave Kane and Joanne O'Neill, parents of youngest victim Nicholas O'Neill, released their letter to the board to reporters. "In the period following this tragedy, it was Mr. Biechele, alone, who stood up and admitted responsibility for his part in this horrible event... "He apologized to the families of the victims and made no attempt to mitigate his guilt," it said.Others pointed out that he sent a handwritten letter to the families of each of the hundred victims and that he has a work release position in a local charity.A sticker for the Pensacola, Florida folk-punk band This Bike Is A Pipe Bomb was found on a bike near the Ohio University's Oasis restaurant by a university police officer.The university police, who were unaware of the band's existence, summoned the Columbus police bomb squad, who destroyed the bike to ensure that there was no bomb inside. The university later discovered their error.The bike's owner, a graduate student, has been charged with "inducing panic," a misdemeanor.  He has been released and is due to appear in court March 13 on the charge.The band's label, Plan-It-X Records, has not yet commented on the incident.  The font and style of the sticker are common among such humorous stickers.A small explosive device detonated this afternoon at a police guard post near to the residence of former Prime Minister General Prem Tinsulanonda in Bangkok.  The device injured two tourists, one Canadian and one British.Prem was Thailand's PM from 1980, dismissing parliament and resigning the position in 1988.  He went on to join the country's Privy Council and now chairs it.The explosion comes against the backdrop of political tension in the country, with all main opposition parties boycotting the April 2nd election called by Thaksin Shinawatra.  Protests against the PM now occur daily, with a proposed boycott of goods and services from companies associated with the PM or his family being put into place.The owner of the Santika Club, site of the 2009 Bangkok nightclub fire, is to be charged along with twelve other directors over the disaster. 62 people were killed and 229 injured by the blaze, thought to have been triggered by New Year fireworks on the stage, although investigations are ongoing."I feel very sorry for what had happened. I want to apologise to victims' family members," said Mr Setsawat, the club's owner. The club had just three exits, of which one was known only to staff and another locked. A number of people died in the stampede for the door. There was also only one fire extinguisher and the venue was only licensed as a snack bar closing at midnight.Setsawat has already been charged with allowing an underage customer into the club after a 17-year-old student's body was recovered from the charred remnants of the club. He now faces further charges of carelessness resulting in death. The charges will be pressed once paperwork has cleared, police have indicated. 31 people remain in critical condition in hospitals.On Thursday, a militant group attacked a mosque in Sholakia in the Kishoreganj district of northern Bangladesh on Eid al-Fitr killing at least four people including one attacker and two officials, injuring at least twelve people, Bangladeshi police said. Al Jazeera reported two suspects were arrested.More than 200,000 people had gathered for Eid prayers marking Ramadan's end. The attackers reportedly used homemade explosives.  Officials said the incident injured nine policemen. By reports at least one blast took place while the people were offering prayers. The attackers also used sharp objects which killed one official. The other policeman was killed by explosives. Shafiqul Islam, a local, said the police searched for suspects amongst devotees and nearby houses. Government officials said the attacks were made in order to "destabalise Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's government".Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said, "We will not allow any terrorist activities on our soil. Those who commit such acts are the enemies of Islam" ((ar))Arabic language: ‍لن نسمح بأي أنشطة إرهابية على أرضنا. من يرتكبون هذه الأفعال هم أعداء الإسلام.A few days ago, more than 20 people were killed in an attack in Dhaka.On Monday, four men entered a branch of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria in Altagracia de Orituco, Venezuela, a small city south-east of the capital Caracas. Allegedly, the bank heist did not go as planned, and the men became trapped in the bank with police outside. In the resulting standoff, approximately 30 employees and customers were taken hostage.Today, after the standoff has lasted more than 24 hours, with a helicopter hovering above, the bank is surrounded by hundreds of heavily armed police, television crews, and the victims relatives. The gunmen released a few hostages on Monday evening and two employees escaped, including a security guard who ran from the building as the gunmen fired shots at him.The hostages, which are said to include a pregnant woman and small children, occasionally appear in the windows of the bank, ostensibly to show relatives that they are still alive. One hostage displayed a placard in of the windows. It read, "We are in real danger. They can kill us. Please help."The hostage takers are demanding an ambulance in which they wish to be allowed to drive away with their stolen goods and a handful of hostages. Negotiators said they had turned down an offer to let them surrender in front of live cameras with guarantees that police would not fire a shot.Police cut off running water to the bank, but have made deliveries of food, drinking water, and diapers. Some hostages have sent text messages to relatives and one even managed to place a phone call to regional radio station.Speaking on Unión Radio, local security official Manuel Granadillo said, "They appear to be new at this. They could do something crazy and then anything could happen."State-run media has largely ignored the standoff, while other outlets have been giving frequent and detailed reports. Crime is a growing political issue in Venezuela. Opinion polls have indicated that it is the number one concern of the population.Copies of The Profit, a 2001 film blocked from distribution in the United States due to a court injunction won by the Church of Scientology, appeared on the Internet Friday on peer-to-peer file-sharing websites and on the video sharing site YouTube. Directed by former film executive Peter N. Alexander, the movie has been characterized by critics as a parody of Scientology and of its founder L. Ron Hubbard. Alexander was a Scientologist for twenty years, and left the organization in 1997. The film was funded by Bob Minton, a former critic of Scientology who later signed an agreement with the Church of Scientology and has attempted to stop distribution of the film. Alexander has stated that the movie is based on his research into cults, and when asked by the St. Petersburg Times about parallels to Scientology and L. Ron Hubbard said: "I'll let you draw that conclusion ... I say it's entirely fictional."The film was released in August 2001, and was shown at a movie theatre in Clearwater, Florida and at a premiere at the Cannes Film Festival in France. A Scientology spokesman gave a statement at the time saying "the movie is fiction and has nothing to do with Scientology". The Church of Scientology later took legal action in an attempt to stop further distribution of the film. The Church of Scientology claimed that the film was intended to influence the jury pool in the wrongful death case of Scientologist Lisa McPherson, who died under Scientology care in Clearwater, Florida. In April 2002, a Pinellas County, Florida judge issued a court order enjoining The Profit from worldwide distribution for an indefinite period. According to the original court injunction received by Wikinews, the movie was originally banned because the court found that it could be seen as a parody of Scientology. In his April 20, 2002 ruling on the injunction, Judge Robert E. Beach of the Sixth Judicial Circuit Court in Pinellas County, Florida wrote: "...an average person viewing the film entitled The Profit could perceive that it is a parody of the Church of Scientology". "To the extent that any person considered as a potential juror in evaluating any issues involving the Church of Scientology, the process of voir dire provides a fair and complete remedy to eliminate any potential juror that may possibly have been influenced to be less than fair and impartial," added Beach.Luke Lirot, the attorney for the film's production company, announced on the film's website on April 7, 2007 that "We have absolutely no exposure for any repercussions from the court order," but that the film was still blocked from distribution due to an ongoing legal battle. Lirot wrote: "all that's stopping the release of the movie is the legal battle with the partner who was compromised by Scientology (Robert Minton) and is currently using his power as partner to stop the release of the film."In an October 2007 article, The Times described the film as "banned in the US because of a lawsuit taken out against it by The Church of Scientology," and Russ Kick's The Disinformation Book of Lists included the film in his "List of 16 Movies Banned in the U.S.". An 8-minute teaser segment from The Profit appeared on the film's website and on the video sharing site YouTube in February 2008, and an attorney representing Bob Minton sent a letter to Luke Lirot requesting that the film clip be taken down. In a response letter, Lirot wrote that "Rather than damage any asset of the LLC, the short clip merely keeps the film in the public eye, and in a positive way."On Friday, copies of the film began to circulate on peer-to-peer file-sharing websites and on YouTube. A link related to the film's appearance on the Internet on the community-based link aggregator website Digg.com had 3,638 "Diggs" - and hit the front page of the site's Entertainment section on Saturday. On Saturday, Scientology critic and Emmy award-winning journalist Mark Bunker put a streaming version of the film on his website, www.xenutv.com, and encouraged others to watch and discuss the film on a real-time chat channel. In a video posting to YouTube Saturday, Bunker said "I did not do it. I had nothing to do with it ... I had nothing to do with this release at all. But I'm happy it's out there ... people are finally having a chance to see it. A lot of people have been curious over the years and there's been a lot of interest in seeing the film, so finally you can."On the newsgroup alt.religion.scientology, a poster by the username "Alexia Death" commented on the film's appearance on the Internet in the context of censorship: "It is out! And so it is a WIN if many people review it even if they say it SUCKS! ... Being bad is no cause to allow censorship ... And being censored is no cause to assume its good". A post to the blog Blogsreel commented: "We have all wanted to see this movie that scientology kept hidden away from us. We have all wondered just how damning could this story be that we were banned from watching it." In a post on Sunday to the message board attached to the official website for the film, attorney Luke Lirot asked that individuals stop distributing copies of The Profit over the Internet. Lirot wrote: "It has been brought to my attention that several unauthorized transmissions and downloads of this protected work have taken place over the last 72 hours. Such actions are copyright violations and are unlawful. I request that any further distribution and/or dissemination of this important work cease immediately and any copies of the work that have been downloaded please be deleted." In his statement, Lirot recognized the rights of individuals under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, but also said that unauthorized distribution of the film "will only serve to harm the goal of vast distribution".Blog postings have attributed the film's appearance on the Internet as part of the anti-Scientology movement Project Chanology organized by the Internet-based group Anonymous, but this has not been confirmed. Wikinews previously reported on international protests against Scientology which took place as part of Project Chanology on February 10 and March 15. A third international protest by Anonymous is scheduled for April 12. Titled "Operation Reconnect", the third international protest will focus on highlighting Scientology's practice of disconnection.Bruce Hyman, the UK barrister who pleaded guilty to perverting the course of justice in August was sentenced to one year in prison at Bristol Crown Court yesterday. He is reported to be the only barrister ever to have been sentenced for such an offence. After having pleaded in mitigation to be suffering from agitated depression and presenting a character reference from Sir Mark Potter, Head of the Family Division of the High Court, Hyman will now serve about six months with remission.Hyman's crime, as reported last month, was calculated to send an innocent father to prison by providing him with a faked Court of Appeal judgment.Barry Bonds, a United States baseball player, has been found guilty of one count of obstructing justice for giving an evasive answer  to a federal grand jury under oath  when asked whether he had ever received drugs necessitating a syringe.   The judge declared a mistrial  on three other  obstruction of justice counts, the three charges that Bonds made false statements when he said to a grand jury in December 2003 that he never knowingly used steroids or human growth hormones given to him by  his personal trainer, and that he permitted only doctors to give him injections. The charge that Bonds was convicted of does not mention steroids.The conviction comes after a seven year prosecution of  Bonds, stemming from the investigation of  Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative (BELCO) begun in 2002. Bonds appeared in an advertisement for BELCO which was reportedly selling designer steroids and other drug paraphernalia to professional athletes. Thirty athletes were called to answer questions before the grand jury.  Bonds had been given immunity for his testimony."This case is about upholding one of the most fundamental principles in our system of justice—the obligation of every witness to provide truthful and direct testimony in judicial proceedings," said federal  prosecutor Melinda Haag.  "In the United States, taking an oath and promising to testify truthfully is a serious matter. We cannot ignore those who choose instead to obstruct justice. We will decide whether to seek a retrial of the defendant on the remaining counts as soon as possible."Champion Tampa Bay Rays baseball player Manny Ramirez, 38, notified the MLB on Friday that he would retire   after being notified that he had  tested positive for a banned perforance-enhancing drug. It was his second offense and he was facing a 100-game suspension. In 2009  as a Los Angeles Dodger, he served a 50-game suspension for violating the MLB's drug policy.Ending a 19-year career, the twelve-time All-Star player who is considered one of the baseball's greatest hitters, won two World Series championships with the Boston Red Sox.He batted a career average of .312, and for 13 seasons he produced more than 200 RBIs. He  hit a career total of 555 home runs and 1,831 RBIs, exceeding the number of home runs and RBIs of Mickey Mantle. He ranks number 14 on the all time list. Now there may be an asterisk after his record numbers."His numbers, he was unreal," said Red Sox infielder Omar Vizquel, who was Ramirez's teammate with the Cleveland Indians. "He was one of the most feared guys with runners in scoring position. ... If there is a guy you really want at the plate in a tough situation, it would have been Manny."Ramirez's retirement coincides with the trial of another of baseball's great hitters, Barry Bonds, charged with  falsely denying to a grand jury that he used performance-enhancing drugs. "Until the past couple of years, I thought [Ramirez] was on his way to the Hall of Fame," said Texas Rangers manager Ron Washington. "I don't think many guys got as many big hits in their careers as he has. There weren't many guys who had as big an effect on a game as he had. You hate to see greatness all of a sudden just fade."Baseball home-run leader Barry Bonds was indicted today in the United States District Court in San Francisco, California. The charges of perjury and obstruction of justice stem from Bonds's testimony that he did not knowingly take steroids to a grand jury during the BALCO scandal. Evidence was allegedly obtained during the investigation that included a positive test for performance-enhancing substances. Bonds, currently a free agent, still denies using steroids.The indictment said: "During the criminal investigation, evidence was obtained including positive tests for the presence of anabolic steroids and other performance-enhancing substances for Bonds and other professional athletes."If Bonds is convicted of all four counts of perjury and one count of obstruction of justice, he could face up to 20 to 30 years in prison.Trains, trams, cars and buses ground to a halt on Monday after a shoot-out between 18:00 CET and 19:00 CET in the historical city of Basel in Switzerland. The first shots were fired at around 16:00 CET according to the spokesperson of the Government. Special Police Forces were getting prepared to launch an assault against this building. The authors of the shoot-out are unknown as well as their target. Railway traffic was blocked off at around 18:00 CET, according to the Swiss Federal Railways' (SBB-CFF-FFS) spokesperson, Christian Kräuchi. At around 19:00 CET, railway traffic resumed.ETA (Euskadi Ta Askatasuna), a separatist group based out of the Basque region of northern Spain, announced in a recorded and written message that it would end its armed campaign for independence, instead focusing on political means for achieving its goals. The Spanish government has rejected the ceasefire.In the video sent to the BBC, ETA stated that, while the autonomy framework enshrined in the Spanish constitution is "not the way to satisfy the wishes of the Basque people", the organisation was committed to finding a democratic solution to the conflict.Several analysts have suggested that this most recent ceasefire is based on ETA's tactics causing their support in the Basque region to plummet.  Author Paddy Woodworth found in a recent trip to the region that the group's actions had made former supporters of the movement believe ETA was politically finished.  The BBC's Sarah Rainsford said that ETA is at the weakest point in its 51-year history and that the ceasefire may just be a ploy to disguise that weakness.The group, which is listed as a terrorist organization by the European Union and the United States, have declared ceasefires several times before, which have all ended in a resumption of violence. The most recent ceasefire, in 2006, led to peace talks between the group and the Spanish government, but they were interrupted by a car-bombing at Madrid's Barajas Airport. The bombing was frowned upon by all involved in the peace process, including other Basque separatist parties in the region.On September 6 the Spanish government rejected the ceasefire, saying that the group cannot be trusted after the last ceasefire, alleging that the group was calling the ceasefire because they were too weak to stage attacks, and asserting the ceasefire is a way for them to regroup and rearm. Interior Minister Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba said Monday that the group would have to completely renounce violence for the government to accept the ceasefire.UK forces have raided an Iraqi police station and a house in Basra to retrieve two British soldiers who had been arrested by Iraqi police forces. Later media reports say 'the soldiers were found not to be at the police station. Based on received intelligence a house was then stormed; the soldiers were found being held by "local militia".' The identities of the two soldiers are unknown, but it is known they were special forces working in "plain clothes", dressed as Iraqis and wearing dark wigs. The incident has been accompanied by petrol bomb attacks on British armoured vehicles and stones being thrown at the soldiers as they evacuated the vehicles due to fears of "exploding ammunition", according to more recent media. Associated Press has reported that about 150 prisoners are believed to have escaped as the result of the raids, although the higher Iraqi authorities hold that this is not true.It is not clear precisely what the rescued soldiers were being held for, besides a possible covert attempt to plant a carbomb, as  the Sept. 19th article listed below declares the 2 "were using a civilian car packed with explosives" while disguised as Iraqis wearing Arab uniforms. Many news sources have reported that the men were working undercover for British forces.  Iraqi authorities report that the men had opened fire on police, killing one officer and wounding another. The Washington Post article tells of the Iraqi Police calling for locals to come help hold the soldiers so as the situation may be investigated. Three hours later, the 2 were broken out of an allied jail by force. It is too early to determine the truth of any of these claims yet, but it is certain to have ramifications for the peace process as well as global affairs.The constant manipulation of this story as it progresses is undeniable.The carillion war memorial in Bathurst in Central Western NSW was vandalised just hours before a dawn ANZAC day service. Police allege that five teenage girls aged 15 and 16 were involved.'Diggers' who had been looking forward to the dawn service said they were bought to tears after they learned that statements saying "ANZAC murderers" and "Aussies don't fight" were painted on the war memorial.Police say they were called to the memorial after reports that a group of vandals had covered the shrine with offensive graffiti. Sergent Andrew Holand from Bathurst police said "Police arrived a short time later and observed that they had painted approximately one metre high, [beige coloured] slogans all the way around the exteriors of the war memorial using words such as "ANZAC murderers" and "Aussies don't fight" along with peace symbols"."They've then taken the remnants of the four-litre paint cans and splashed these on the doors and external steps of the war memorial," he said.When police located the group of five teenagers some were still covered in paint. All were taken to Bathurst Police Station where the 16 year-old girl was charged with maliciously damaging a shrine or war memorial and malicious damage to police property. It is alleged after she was arrested she damaged a police cell.The four other girls involved, all aged 15 will be cautioned under the state's Youth Offenders Act.Jim McFerran from the Bathurst Returned and Services League of Australia (RSL) said he was humbled by efforts to clean up the graffiti. He said an effort involving RSL members, local army personnel, council workers, volunteer firefighters and a group of young men on their way home after a night out."We had about a dozen young fellas that were going home from the pub, they sort of stopped and said: 'What's going on here?'," said Mr McFerran."When they got told, they sort of walked over, bloody downed their things, grabbed ... pads and rags and starting getting in there with the rest of us."NSW Premier Morris Iemma condemned the vandalism, saying "They need a history lesson and a good kick up the backside as well."File:Bathurst location map in New South Wales.PNGPolice searching for the remains of missing Bathurst woman Janine Vaughan have discovered bones which they claim may belong to the missing woman. Ms Vaughan disappeared after being seen getting into a red car with a male after being a Bathurst pub on December 7, 2001.On Sunday, police began a fresh search for the missing woman's remains after they received new information. On Monday at approximately 3:00 p.m. AEST police discovered bones during a ground sweep of an area off Montavella Road, Gormans Hill adjacent to the Macquarie River. Forensic services police were bought in several hours later, but initial tests proved inconclusive.Police were guarding the site overnight and forensic officers are expected to conduct further tests today.Police also search bushland near a creek at Yetholme, 15 km East of Bathurst on Monday using two specialist cadaver dogs on loan from Queensland Police.Police have revealed that the search has prompted several members of the local community to call the police's Crime Stoppers hotline with information. Chief Superintendent Mark Holahan said “It's a cross-section of information. Some of it will probably lead us to some new lines of inquiry, and some of it will help us to reaffirm some of those things we already know.”The detective who led the initial investigation into Ms Vaughan's disappearance for several days continues to be a person of interest to police in the case. The detective, Brad Hosemans, is also a former deputy mayor of the city. Mr Hosemans, who has since left the police force, has denied any involvement.Chief Supt. Holahan said the former detective was only one of a number of persons of interest in the case.The Police Integrity Commission has investigated the initial handling of the case but is yet to hand down a finding.Sunday morning showed Trafalgar Square, London damaged during the night by demonstrators.Bottles, cans, and placards littered the concrete ground of one of the most iconic landmarks in London. Demonstrators livid at government cuts had sprayed graffiti on the four bronze lions. "No-one rules if no-one obeys," one message, next to the symbol of anarchy, read. On the steps leading up to the National Gallery lay placards, dropped by demonstrators the night before. Hours earlier the square was an arena for running battles between the anarchist protesters and riot police.First, they targetted Oxford Street, arguably the most famous shopping row in the city. The protesters, many dressed in black, hurled smoke bombs and paint at Topshop, which they claimed has systematically abused the tax system. In Piccadilly, they ransacked The Ritz, a hotel popularly known for upmarket opulence. As darkness fell over the capital, many went home. But in Trafalgar Square, protesters lit campfires and danced to music, smoking and eating into the night.But then the police moved in. Clad in riot gear, the situation began to escalate and both they and the demonstrators began to panic. They raised their batons and shouted at the crowd, while the protesters grabbed metal barriers and hurled them over police lines, using them as battering rams. Some protesters yelled in defence, "Don't hit us!", while the more determined shouted, "Shame on you! Your job's next!" The riot officers pushed protesters into the centre of the square, towards Nelson's Column. The police started forward at least twice swinging their batons in the air, as protesters retaliated by throwing glass bottles and coins towards the police lines. One officer was taken away with blood pouring from under his visor."I have never seen such a fast escalation of violence in my life," one witness to the violence in the square said. "Everything just kicked off, glass everywhere, police hitting people, people being dragged across the floor. I just can't believe it." Other protesters on the front line later described the police retaliation as they began to kettle people in. "I find myself in front of the riot line," one protester wrote, "taking a blow to the head and a kick to the shin; I am dragged to my feet by a girl with blue hair who squeezes my arm and then raises a union flag defiantly at the cops." Fireworks exploded overhead and, towards midnight, the number of protesters had diminished. As the kettling began, many of them slipped away into the night. In the early hours of the morning, the levels of violence began to fade. “Vandalism has been committed and officers have come under sustained attack," the Metropolitan Police said. "We are holding everyone here until the situation calms down and we determine who is responsible." As the street cleaners worked through the morning in London, more than 200 protesters, detained throughout the day, remained in custody. Although the organisers of the march were swift to disassociate themselves with the violence, the protesters were defiant. "I'm not moving, I'm not moving," one young protester, hemmed in by the riot police, said. "I've been on every protest, I won't let this government destroy our future without a fight. I won't stand back, I'm not moving."Director-General of the BBC George Entwistle resigned yesterday. Mr Entwistle earlier in the day said he would stay on as Director-General but yesterday evening he said he was doing the "honourable thing" by stepping down. Earlier this week, flagship BBC investigative programme Newsnight was embroiled in controversy as it was revealed the programme had wrongly implied former Conservative chairman Lord McAlpine had been involved in child abuse at a children's home in Wales. Steve Messham said the man he had identified as abusing him in the 1970s  at Bryn Estyn children's home was not Lord McAlpine.Although Newsnight did not name Lord McAlpine by name, the programme did allege a former Conservative figure had been involved in child abuse. Allegations then surfaced on the Internet about Lord McAlpine.Mr Entwistle said earlier yesterday that the film should not have been broadcast. In the evening, Mr Entwistle, who started his post on September 17, said in a statement outside Broadcasting House, "In the light of the fact that the director general is also the editor in chief and ultimately responsible for all content, and in the light of the unacceptable journalistic standards of the Newsnight film broadcast on Friday 2 November, I have decided that the honourable thing to do is to step down from the post of director general."He added that "the wholly exceptional events of the past few weeks have led me to conclude that the BBC should appoint a new leader".  He said it had been a "great honour" to lead the BBC. He continued: "While there is understandable public concern over a number of issues well covered in the media — which I'm confident will be addressed by the review process — we must not lose sight of the fact that the BBC is full of people of the greatest talent and the highest integrity."Chairman of the BBC Trust Lord Patten said: "This is undoubtedly one of the saddest evenings of my public life. ... At the heart of the BBC is its role as a trusted global news organisation."The BBC announced BBC Worldwide chief executive Tim Davie would become acting Director-General.A BBC newsreader has lost his job after he was found guilty of unlawful wounding of a teenager. Ashley Blake, 40, who presented Midlands Today, attacked Greg Jones, 17, with a wooden pole outside a bar in Birmingham in January. Jones received injuries to his lip and chin.The trial took place at Birmingham Crown Court and concluded on August 3. The presenter, who was arrested at the scene, denied the attack and claimed he used the pole to protect himself from bottles being thrown at him by up to thirty people. Blake was also convicted of attempting to pervert the course of justice. The judge told Blake it was "almost inevitable" he was going to be sent to jail.A BBC spokesman released a statement that said, "Ashley Blake was found guilty last week of two serious charges. An internal process has resulted in Ashley's dismissal which is effective immediately."After the conviction, Blake spoke to reporters, saying, "[I am] just gutted, absolutely gutted ... it's all over, isn't it? My job — everything." Blake is scheduled to be sentenced on September 2.At least one team of British reporters for the BBC have been arrested in Tehran, Iran. Officials there say the reporters are suspected of spying on Iran and had the assistance of the British embassy in Tehran. A number of other teams are under investigation for espionage."Iran’s security agencies have revealed that several BBC reporters intended to engage in espionage in the Islamic Republic of Iran with the support of the UK embassy, said Foreign Policy and National Security Commission of the Iranian parliament member, Muhammad Karim Abedi. He was speaking during an interview on Iran's top news agency, the Iranian Labour News Agency (ILNA).Abedi did not say how many were arrested and did not specify any names. He alleges the reporters were staying in a hotel under false names, and were planning to organize groups of people that were not in favor of the practices of the Iranian government. He also alleges that the BBC is not in Iran to report on news events, but are in the country "recruiting individuals for intelligence activities.""Fortunately, the Iranian intelligence services have arrested one or two teams and a number of other teams are under investigation," added Abedi.Abedi also said that many other people involved with the espionage plot have been arrested and that authorities are currently searching for more suspects.So far neither the British government nor the BBC have commented on the incident.An investigation by the BBC has revealed that millions of dollars in famine relief aid money, including the money raised from the charity supergroup Band Aid and the Live Aid concert held by Bob Geldof, was "siphoned off" by Ethiopian rebels to buy weapons.  One rebel said that at least US$ 95 million (£63 million) from — Western governments and private charities — was diverted into rebel coffers. This was also noted in a declassified Central Intelligence Agency assessment of the famine situation titled Ethiopia: Political and Security Impact of the Drought, in which the report states, "Some funds that insurgent organizations are raising for relief operations, as a result of increased world publicity, are almost certainly being diverted for military purposes." During the 1984–1985 famine, Ethiopia was fighting Eritrean and Tigray rebels in those two northern provinces, although Eritrea has since gained its independence. Since the countryside was out of the government's control, aid was brought in from neighboring Sudan. Some aid came in the form of food, while other aid came as cash which would be used by the aid agencies to buy grain from Ethiopian farmers.Rebels would disguise themselves as traders and merchants to get their hands on the currency. "I was given clothes to make me look like a Muslim merchant. This was a trick for the NGOs," said Gebremedhin Araya, a senior member of the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF).One such aid worker that brought the grain was Max Peberdy, who worked for the charity Christian Aid. Peberdy is seen in a photo with Araya buying grain. Araya said that only some of the sacks were filled with grain; the rest were filled with sand.  The transaction was overseen by a member of the Relief Society of Tigray (REST), the humanitarian wing of the TPLF.  The money was then given to TPLF leaders, including chairman Meles Zenawi, who has been Prime Minister of Ethiopia since 1991.  Zenawi has not commented on the allegations.Peberdy disputes the claims that he was duped, saying, "As far as we were concerned and as far as we were told by REST, the people we were dealing with were merchants."  He added, "It's 25 years since this happened, and in the 25 years it's the first time anybody has claimed such a thing."However, an exiled TPLF commander who lives in the Netherlands, Aregawi Berhe, is backing Araya's story.  He said the group got their hands on over US$100 million (£66 million) of which 95% went to buy weapons and build up a hardliner Marxist party inside the rebel movement.  The remaining five percent would go to famine victims.  Berhe told the BBC that the group would put on a "drama" to get the money.  Berhe said, "The aid workers were fooled."In response to the allegations, the charity Christian Aid issued a statement saying, "There are allegations in the story which are against all of Christian Aid's principles and our initial investigations do not correspond to the BBC's version of events."Nick Guttmann, who is director of emergency relief operations for the group, says the "story has to be put into context".  "We were working in a major conflict, there was a massive famine and people on all sides were suffering," Guttmann said, adding, "Both the rebels and the government were using innocent civilians to further their own political ends." Bob Geldof, the Irish rock star who help organized Live Aid, said, "We are talking about a disgruntled, exiled general.  The essence of the report also is not just about Live Aid.  It's that all monies going into Tigray — that would be Oxfam, Save the Children, UNICEF and Christian Aid — somehow, we were all duped and gulled.  And that's simply not the case.  It just didn't happen."Beijing's utilities are cracking down on manhole cover thefts by removing the incentive to steal them. A pilot program is using a new material with negligible recycling value in over 2,921 installations of various types."We are still looking for the perfect substitutes for the manhole covers," said city spokesman Wang Xin.Over 240,000 covers were stolen from Beijing's streets in 2004, nearly half of the 600,000 installations scattered throughout the city.The high recycling value of the metal used to manufacture the previous models led to a crime wave of thefts, driven by illegal scrap metal dealers who purchased them for approximately US$2.4 dollars.The covers cost between US$145 and US$182 to replace.British Columbia's Premier Gordon Campbell unexpectedly announced his resignation today, calling for a party leadership convention as soon as possible. He will remain until the Liberal Party caucus members select a new leader.The Liberal Party premier gave his resignation during an unscheduled, hastily arranged press conference in Vancouver just one day ahead of a caucus meeting characterised as an emergency meeting at the city's airport. A full party convention, planned for later this month, is to be held in Penticton.The Liberal government has been under increasing pressure since its 2009 re-election. A particularly contentious point is the introduction of a Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) only weeks after their election victory with a campaign commitment never to implement HST.Other scandals have dogged the party over the past year; allegations of corruption in the sale of BC Rail – itself another broken campaign promise. This was further aggravated by recent guilty pleas and convictions of David Basi and Robert Virk, and the announcement the government would pay the six million CAD (3.7 million GBP, 4.2 million EUR) defense bills of the disgraced government aides as part of their plea-agreement to lesser charges.It was admitted post-trial the total bill for the case was CA$ 18 million (£11 million, €12.7 million), excluding the undisclosed Canadian police investigation costs.As yet, no other Liberal party members have announced plans to stand for the Premiership.The federal prosecution in Belgium has finished an investigation into the activities of the Scientology Church in the country, and is planning to file a lawsuit against the Belgian and European sections of the religious movement, and 14 individual members.The inquiry began in 1999 after some former members accused Scientology of swindling. Now, the prosecutor has finished the inquiry. The accounts against Scientology and some of its members include blackmailing, swindling of its members, breaking trade and privacy laws, unlawfully practicing medicine, and forming a criminal organisation.If it comes to a trial, it would be the first time the movement is prosecuted on this scale. In some countries  Scientology is recognised as an official religion, and Scientology has celebrities such as Tom Cruise and John Travolta as followers.Members follow expensive trainings for their spiritual development, but some accuse Scientology of manipulation and brainwashing. The Church has come under controversy before with a wide variety of accusations, including a variety of criminal charges such as in 1978 when prominent members were caught engaging in wiretapping, and stealing documents from United States Internal Revenue Service. Yesterday, the European bureau could not give a reaction to the Belgian press. In the past however, the movement has repeatedly denied allegations against it.The Belgian parliament on Friday approved the new Van Rompuy I Government consisting of the same five political parties that formed the last ruling coalition, temporarily ending the country's political crisis. Lower house deputies approved the Motion of Confidence by a majority of 88 votes to 45, with no abstentions. "Don't judge the government... by its intentions but by its results, but no results in the very short-term, judge us in 2011," Van Rompuy told the lawmakers.Herman A. Van Rompuy (herman van rɔmpœy) had officially been invested on Tuesday as Belgium's third premier in a year by King Albert II. He addressed parliament Wednesday seeking quick economic measures. In his declaration, he urged the passage of bills to rejuvenate an ailing economy heading into deep recession and sought to resolve the 18 months political crisis after the country spent over nine months in caretaker rule. He also asked for full restoration of confidence amid the near-collapse of the country’s two largest banks. "The previous government proposed such a plan (pumping 2 billion euros or $2.84 billion, into the economy next year, part of a 200 billion euro EU-wide stimulus package). It must be enacted as soon as possible," Van Rompuy said. "It is clear that in the coming weeks and months the government will take new initiatives to cope with the challenges that the crisis poses for the economy and employment," he added.In his lower house of parliament speech, Van Rompuy also called for experts to testify in an unbiased parliamentary inquiry on Yves Leterme’s cabinet's alleged attempt to influence the judges into allowing the breakup of Fortis, once Belgium's largest bank. “The investigation should be carried out serenely and without bias,” he said.Van Rompuy, age 61, is a conservative Belgian Flemish politician and member of the CD&V (formerly called CVP) who succeeds Yves Leterme. On December 28, 2008, he was asked by King Albert II to form a new Government after he was reluctant to take up the role of Prime Minister after the Leterme I government had fallen on 22 December 2008 due to the bank bailout scandal. The Van Rompuy I Government became the new federal government of Belgium on December 30. It comprises 15 ministers and seven secretaries of state. Eighteen of the 22 ministers served in the same posts in Prime Minister Yves Leterme's government. Vietnam Prime Minister Nguyễn Tấn Dũng on Friday has sent congratulatory messages to the new Premier.Prime Minister Yves Leterme offered the resignation of his government on December 18 to King Albert after a crisis erupted surrounding the sale of troubled Fortis bank to BNP Paribas. Leterme, Justice Minister Jo Vandeurzen, and Didier Reynders were accused of violating the separation of powers and exerting improper influence by trying to influence the Court of Appeals; this accusation was made by the First Chairman of the Court of Cassation. Three days later the resignation was accepted by the king.Meanwhile, the Flemish opposition led by Flemish nationalist NVA party, Jan Jambon, challenged the legitimacy of Van Rompuy's government, calling it "a government which does not represent a majority of the Flemish people". Other opposition parties also questioned the created "Fortisgate" parliamentary commission of enquiry alleging it was a scheme to acquit Leterme. The Kingdom of Belgium (ˈbɛldʒəm) is a country in northwest Europe. It is a founding member of the European Union and hosts its headquarters, as well as those of other major international organizations, including NATO. Belgium covers an area of 30,528 km2 (11,787 square miles) and has a population of about 10.5 million. Belgium shares borders with France (620 km), Germany (167 km), Luxembourg (148 km) and the Netherlands (450 km). Its total area, including surface water area, is 33,990 square kilometres; land area alone is 30,528 km2.A Belgian ship has been hijacked by Somali pirates in waters off the coast of the Horn of Africa, according to a Belgian government's crisis management centre spokesman. The vessel involved in the incident was the 65-metre, 1,850 Pompei, en route to the Seychelles islands, located further south.The ship sent out two alarms at 04.30 and 05.00 GMT on Friday. Aboard the vessel were ten crew members, including four Croatians, three Filipinos, two Belgians and the Dutch captain."The ship has been spotted and we can confirm that it has been taken hostage," Benoit Ramacker of the crisis management centre said.Meanwhile, in the Gulf of Aden, located further north, a NATO commander announced that the authorities had responded from a distress call sent by a Marshall Islands tanker, which had also come under attack by pirates.Piracy is rampant in the waters off Africa's eastern shores, with sixty ships having been hijacked by pirates since the beginning of last year.A court in Flanders prolonged the custody of 12 suspects on Thursday. Meanwhile, more details emerge in the case against alleged neo-Nazi group inside the Belgian army. They are accused of terrorism, weapons traffic and racism.Most lawyers involved asked for their clients to be released, and will appeal the court's decision. One lawyer said the police was being influenced politically to make the arrests now, before the elections of October 8, and that his client was more of a "immature teenager and weapons freak". The prosecutor is calling some suspects weapons dealers, but the defence lawyers claim they are weapons collectors, and say that terrorism is out of the question.A spokesperson for the justice department denied this formally, saying that "The weapons traffic of the suspects began to take too large proportions, so we couldn't wait any longer." She also said the army informed them that they considered it too dangerous to take the soldiers involved along on uncoming international missions (Belgium is sending troups to Lebanon).The prime suspect and alleged leader of the group is Thomas B. The police thinks he has a neo-Nazistic ideology and was planning attacks to destabilise Belgium. Thomas B. founded a splinter group of Blood and Honour called 'Bloed, Bodem, Eer en Trouw' (Eng: Blood, Soil, Honour and Fidelity), after the British headquarters of the skinhead organisation didn't let him found an official branch in Belgium.T.V. station VTM claimed the police tapped into phone conversations where Thomas B. was talking about killing Filip Dewinter and Dyab Abou Jahjah, two political leaders and opponents in Belgium. That way, both sides would cause an uprise and they could seize the opportunity. But the prosecutor's office has formally denied the existence of specific plans to this end.The police has discovered numerous weapons, and a video showing a paramilitary training, not only on military grounds but also under a bridge in the city Dendermonde. The police say the tape shows how they fire guns and throw Molotov cocktails on that location.In the political arena, Internal Affairs minister Patrick Dewael has suggested a law to forbid far right criminal organisations. The plan was applauded by some and contested by others. Earlier on Friday, the federal government supported the proposal to give more power to the national intelligence services to fight terrorism. Minister of Defence André Flahaut suspended 11 suspects inside the army. Prime minister Guy Verhofstadt said the entire affair was "a blame for the country and the army".Human Rights groups have welcomed the indictment in Belgium of Hissène Habré, former dictator of Chad. Habré, described by the organisation Human Rights Watch as "the African Pinochet", ruled Chad from 1982 to 1990. He now stands accused of "crimes against humanity" over a series of abuses allegedly committed during his tenure. A 1992 "Truth Commission" in Chad heard evidence of systematic torture by Habré's government, and accused the regime of more than 40,000 killings. But the government of Chad, which until very recently, according to Human Rights Watch, included many of Habré's former associates, has never made any attempt to prosecute him.  Habré, who currently lives in Senegal, was arrested by the  authorities there in 2000, charged with torture and crimes against humanity. But the following year the Senegalese high court ruled that Habré could not be prosecuted for crimes committed in another country. Every state has the right under international law, to prosecute the alleged perpetrators of war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity, wherever those crimes were committed. In practice, Belgium is one of the few countries in the world to have enacted legislation enabling their domestic courts to exercise this right. In June 2001, four Rwandans were convicted by a Belgian court, under the country's "universal jurisdiction" law, of participating in the 1994 genocide (recently portrayed in the film "Hotel Rwanda"). Belgium recently amended the law to reduce its scope, after a series of highly-controversial attempts to bring cases against serving world leaders, including the Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. But a number of cases that had already begun were allowed to continue, including the case against Habré. The government of Senegal recently detained Habré to prevent him from fleeing, following pressure from the United Nations. Belgium has now issued an extradition request.Lawmakers in Belgium voted almost unanimously to ban public wearing of full face veils on Friday.The proposal received 134 votes in the lower house of federal parliament with two abstentions and nobody opposing. Under the new rule, any clothing that fully obscures the face will be prohibited in public areas such as parks and streets; anyone who ignores it will be fined $20 to $35 and/or a jail sentence of up to a week. Exceptions could be made during certain festivals, or if the wearer has police permission to use the veil.The proposal will now go to the Belgian Senate, where it is expected not to be blocked; some reports suggest it could become full law in June or July."It's not about introducing any form of discrimination," commented Daniel Bacquelaine, head of the liberal MR party in the parliament. He said that veils were "aimed at stopping people from being identified".Before the lower house voted, the vice-president of the Muslim Executive of Belgium, Isabelle Praile, opposed the proposal, saying: "Today it's the full-face veil, tomorrow the veil, the day after it will be Sikh turbans and then perhaps it will be mini skirts. The wearing of a full-face veil is part of the individual freedoms."Former Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto, who was killed in a suicide attack yesterday, has been buried in her ancestral home in the village of Garhi Khuda Bakhsh. Meanwhile, violence has erupted across the nation in protest to the 54-year-old opposition leader's death.The Pakistani government has claimed to have evidence to suggest that al Qaeda were responsible for attacking her at the end of her address to an election rally. One spokesperson for the Interior Ministry said "We have intelligence intercepts indicating that al Qaeda leader Baitullah Mehsud is behind her assassination." Mehsud, believed to be in Pakistan near the border with Afghanistan, is one of Pakistan's most wanted criminals.Mustafa Abu al-Yazid, a head of al Qaeda in Afghanistan, told the Asia Times by telephone that the group had indeed been responsible, saying "This is our first major victory against those who have been siding with infidels in a fight against Al Qaeda and declared a war against mujahideen,"  and that anti-Shi'ite militant group Lashkar-i-Jhangvi carried out the attack on al Qaeda's behalf.United States federal bodies are attempting to verify that al Qaeda were responsible. One official told the Associated Press that a bulletin circulated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security to law enforcement groups mentioned several Islamist websites posting claims of responsibility. Director of National Intelligence spokesman Ross Feinstein commented that they were "in no position right now to confirm who may have been responsible."Unrest in Sindh, Bhutto's home province, was to the extent that the military has been called in to the area. According to officials, unrest since her death has resulted in 32 deaths, including those of four police officers. 23 of the deaths were in Sindh. It is feared that recent events could cause Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf to postpone an election intended to place Pakistan back under civilian rule, which is currently planned for January 8.Soldiers were told to shoot to kill violent protesters on sight, as scores of people set up roadblocks and torched hundreds of cars, trucks and buses. Other areas also saw violence; an election meeting in the Northwest suffered a bomb attack that killed a candidate for Musharrif's party and seven others, whilst one was killed in the city of Lahore.Thousands lined the way as Bhutto's coffin, draped in the tricolor of the Pakistan People's Party, was transported the 7km to the family mausoleum, accompanied by Bhutto's husband Asif Ali Zardari. She was laid to rest alongside the body of her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, himself a former Prime Minister hung after a military coup. Zardini prayed at the site alongside their three children, son Bilawal, 19, and daughters Bakhtawar, 17 and Aseefa, 14. Bhutto's two brothers, whose deaths remain officially unexplained, are also buried at the site, which she had herself arranged the construction of.Reuters reported that many at the scene chanted slogans in opposition to Musharraf and to the United States, who for many years have supported Musharraf. "Shame on the killer Musharraf, shame on the killer U.S.," the news agency quoted the mourners as saying. Meanwhile, one farmer told them "Bhutto was my sister and Bhutto was like my mother... With her death, the world has ended for us."Musharraf, a former army general, seized power in an armed 1999 coup. For many years he has had US support in the hope that he can keep control in the unstable country, which is afflicted with Islamic extremist violence.Economics in the country have also been much affected, Koichi Ogawa, chief portfolio manager at Daiwa SB Investments, commented that "Unrest in Pakistan is eroding the market sentiment dramatically as Pakistan, unlike North Korea or Iran, is known to really have nuclear weapons." Although the affect was generally to decrease values, lower risk investments, such as gold, went up in demand. India has reacted to the violence by ordering immediate suspension of all cross-border bus and rail services with Pakistan amid fears that violence will spread. Extremists are known to attack trains, including one attack in February where 68 people died on an Indian train heading for Pakistan. Indian border forces have been put on alert, although no specific threats have yet been identified. Relations between the two countries are peaceful but tense, and Indian border forces regularly go on alert at times of crisis in Pakistan.A district court in Berlin has issued a preliminary injunction against the Wikimedia Foundation for displaying the true name of a computer hacker on the German Wikipedia.  The family of the deceased German hacker, known as "Tron," obtained the provisional order in Berlin on December 14. The order was corrected on December 19 because it was at first addressed to Saint Petersburg, Russia  instead of Saint Petersburg, Florida.Tron became famous as the first person to crack the encryption of Pay TV and calling cards. He died in 1998, at the age of 26, in an apparent suicide. Questions have arisen as to the nature of the hacker's death.The court has ordered the German Wikipedia to remove all forms of the hacker's complete civil name "Boris Floricic". The court states that this is justified by the fact that the hacker never worked under his civil name, but instead his Internet alias.The legality of the order is in question, because the Wikimedia Foundation servers are not located in Germany, but instead in the United States. Whether the Foundation will comply or if the family's attorneys have any means to enforce the decision remains in doubt. The case prompted many German media outlets to publicly display the hacker's real name.On January 17 the same court also issued a preliminary injunction against Wikimedia Deutschland e.V., the German chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation, citing the same reasons. In that injuction, the chapter was ordered to cease redirecting www.wikipedia.de to de.wikipedia.org. Wikimedia Deutschland complied, but its lawyers announced that they will appeal the decision, saying that Tron's civil name has long since been public knowledge.The Amtsgericht Berlin-Charlottenburg has repealed an injunction that it had issued in January against Wikimedia Deutschland, the German chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation.The court found that identifying the deceased Boris Floricic as the hacker Tron in an article of the German Wikipedia does not constitute a breach of the personal rights of Floricic or his parents, the plaintiffs in the lawsuit. It said that those rights only protect deceased persons from libelous or disfiguring characterisations of their biography; this is not the case in the Wikipedia article. The court also found that the personal rights of the parents were not infringed upon as well, as the article does not enable anyone to identify them.The lawyer of the parents, Friedrich Kurz, called the decision "arbitrary", "tangibly illegal" and a "misjudgment" as his clients have a unique surname which would make it possible to connect Tron to them. He announced that he would appeal the decision, even to the European Court of Human Rights if necessary.The chairman of Wikimedia Deutschland, Kurt Jansson, said they are happy that the court "confirmed our interpretation of the law completely" and hoped that the attorney of the plaintiffs would refrain from taking further legal actions due to the "decidedness" of the ruling.The court in Berlin had issued an injunction against Wikimedia Deutschland on January 17th, banning them from redirecting www.wikipedia.de to de.wikipedia.org.On Wednesday, a state labour court in the German capital Berlin pronounced the neutrality law of the city-state, which disallows public employees from wearing religious clothing and symbols, was in accordance with the German constitution. Justice Arne Boyer, said the neutrality law was above the freedom of religion. The ruling comes after a female Muslim teacher, who taught in a primary school for a day, complained the neutrality laws prohibited her from wearing a headscarf and violated her freedom to practice any religion.Public servants across the country are barred from covering their face at work, with some exceptions such as firefighters for whom it is a question of safety. However, the ban does not include the hijab, a headscarf mostly worn by Muslim women. Court spokesperson Martin Dressler said, "Primary school children should be free of the influence that can be exerted by religious symbols".This ruling came just two weeks after the recently-elected Bavarian Minister President Markus Söder of the Christian Social Union gave orders to hang the Christian cross on every state building, in school classrooms, and the courts, saying it was a "clear avowal of our Bavarian identity and Christian values".Last year, the Berlin labour court decided that a school discriminated on the basis of religion when it denied a job to another Muslim teacher. The school failed to show how the teacher's headscarf was "a threat to peace at school". The teacher received EUR 8680 (about USD 10,300) as compensation.Regulations on headscarves are varied amongst the different states of Germany. Teachers in Bremen are not prohibited from wearing a face scarf. In North Rhine-Westphalia, the allowance is on a case-by-case basis. One primary school headteacher in Hesse wrote to parents stating headwear was not allowed in the classroom.Per the ruling of this case, the teacher can wear a headscarf while teaching secondary school students. She can still appeal against the court's decision.The Italian Prime Minister, Silvio Berlusconi, is to remain in the San Raffaele Hospital in Milan, following yesterday's assault which left him with facial damage, two broken teeth, a broken nose and cuts to his lips. The assault on the 73-year-old media mogul came at the end of a political rally where Prime Minister Berlusconi had addressed the assembled crowd.  Berlusconi will now stay in hospital until at least Tuesday, and according to a bulletin released to Italian Media, he is able to eat, but only with difficulty.He was approached and hit in the face by 42-year-old Massimo Tartaglia, who was carrying a replica of Milan's Duomo Cathedral at the time, made out of some form of heavy material according to eyewitnesses. Tartaglia is now in police custody, and has been charged with aggravated assault.The leader of the Northern League, an Italian Far-Right organisation, Umberto Bossi, said what had happened was an "act of terrorism" and described the attack as a "worrying sign".In a statement released to the media, Berlusconi's spokesman, Paolo Bonaiuti, said that "we try to keep him at rest. He would like to re-immerse himself into his frantic activity, but doctors say caution is necessary."In an escalating controversy that has contributed to Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's political problems and created a national uproar in Italy, Italian prosecutors began their own independent probe on Wednesday of the death of Nicola Calipari. The premier has put his government's prestige on the line with assurances to the nation that full light would be shed on the shooting.Calipari, one of the top intelligence agents in Italy, had negotiated a settlement with hostage takers in Baghdad and was rescuing journalist Giuliana Sgrena from them when American soldiers fired on the car they were in. Calipari became a national hero for Italians after he bravely threw his own body across hers as the firing continued, killing him and seriously injuring Sgrena with a few bullets in her back. She is still recovering.Meanwhile, Americans released a document, now described as incomplete, which says the U.S. Army, in a joint inquiry with Italian officials, cleared its own soldiers of any responsibility in the tragic events of March 4.Despite expressing personal sympathy for the Middleton family, Bermuda's chief justice Richard Ground dismissed, on Friday, an application to re-examine the 1996 killing of Rebecca Middleton.Seventen-year old Rebecca Middleton, of Belleville, Ontario, Canada had been in Bermuda on vacation when she was raped and murdered. At the time, police had identified two suspects in the crime, 21 year-old Kirk Mundy and 19 year-old Justis Smith. Before DNA test results had been tabled, the attorney general made a plea deal with Mundy in exchange for his testimony against Smith. It turned out that prosecutors didn't have enough hard evidence to connect Smith to the crime and the murder charges against him were dropped. Mundy served 5 years for being an accessory to the crime.The murder case had garnered significant worldwide attention, even drawing in Cherie Booth QC, lawyer and wife of British Prime Minister Tony Blair. Booth had advocated on behalf of the Middleton family during the recent two-day hearing in front of justice Ground.In his ruling, Chief Justice Ground explained that new charges would amount to double jeopardy and would violate current law, as there were no errors in a previous review. "I have to declare the law as it is," said Ground in his written ruling. "The [double jeopardy] rule is well established and straightforward...it would require legislation, or possibly the intervention of a higher court to change it."Since the ruling went against the Middletons, the lawyers representing Mundy and Smith called for their legal fees to be paid by Dave Middleton, Rebecca's father. However, Justice Ground rejected the request. "The applicant has suffered a terrible loss, for which he can never be compensated. He has also suffered a wrong, in the way that this matter was mishandled at the outset," said Ground. "In my view [Middleton] is entitled to explore every reasonable avenue in an attempt to put that right, and I am not going to order him to pay the costs of doing so."Dave Middleton, revealed that with his own legal bill approaching CA$100,000, an appeal of the latest ruling may be out of reach financially. "The cost just keeps going up. So far we are covering our bills, but will we be able to continue to do that? I don’t know," he told CBC News from his home in Belleville. The Middletons have received financial support in the past by fundraising through the Rebecca Middleton Foundation.For the next stage in the process, Middleton revealed that the case would reach the Court of Appeal in Bermuda, possibly in November. Should that appeal prove unsuccessful, the case could be brought before the UK Privy Council or the European Court of Justice.Dave Middleton also suggested that the Middletons would like to retain the services of Cherie Booth for the upcoming appeals. "She’s a big part of how we progress, and I'm very hopeful of that," said Middleton.A spokesperson for Scotland Yard has confirmed that no arrests have been made after Formula One boss Bernie Ecclestone was injured in a mugging on Wednesday. The 80-year-old billionaire was treated in hospital for head injuries he sustained in the attack, in which the four muggers stole £200,000 of jewellery from him and his 31-year-old girlfriend. The attack occurred as Ecclestone visited his company's office with girlfriend Fabiana Flosi—who was reportedly "shaken" but uninjured—in central London. "There can be little doubt that this was a targeted robbery because of who Mr. Ecclestone is," a police source said. "The muggers were callous and showed little regard for the victims. They need to be caught." Police confirmed that "[a] man was taken to a west London hospital for treatment to a minor head injury and was subsequently discharged. There were no reports of any other injuries. Officers from Westminster robbery squad are investigating. There have been no arrests and inquiries continue." Four years ago, Ecclestone was mugged as he parked his car outside his £10 million home in Chelsea Square; two wheels were taken from the car.United States Presidential candidate Bernie Sanders discussed his understanding of the Black Lives Matter movement on Monday."Many white people are not sensitive", Sanders noted, speaking with magazine Ebony, "to the kind of abuse that African-Americans, especially younger African-Americans, receive at the hands of police officers and police departments".The Black Lives Matter activist movement protests police brutality against African Americans, and gained traction after the death of Michael Brown last year in Ferguson, Missouri.Sanders also recently admitted, speaking to magazine The New Yorker, that when the Black Lives Matter movement first came to light, he mishandled his dealings with them: "I plead guilty — I should have been more sensitive at the beginning of this campaign to talk about this issue [...] The issues these young people raised are enormously important".Senator Sanders has had several incidents involving the group, including when they interrupted one of his rallies in Seattle in August. He said talking with members of the movement has helped him understand what the movement is about.Sanders has been strongly criticized for his previous treatment of the group, particularly when his campaign began to respond to interruption from the group by shouting "we stand together" repeatedly at them.The Senator for Vermont in his Ebony interview called the US criminal justice system "broken", saying, "One of the ongoing crises in America is institutional racism".Bertie Ahern has today announced that he intends to stand down from the office of Taoiseach (Irish Prime Minister) on the 6th of May. Mr. Ahern made the announcement today at a press conference in Government Buildings in Dublin. Ahern's imminent resignation comes on the back of over a year of controversy surrounding payments received by him in the early 1990's while he was serving as Minister of Finance. He has been forced to give evidence on these payments to a tribunal of inquiry and his evidence there is ongoing. Mr. Ahern has been a TD (MP) for 31 years and has been Taoiseach for the past 11 years, making him the second longest serving Irish Premier after Eamonn de Valera. He won a record 3rd term in office following the general election last year. He currently leads a coalition of his own party Fianna Fáil, the Green Party, the Progressive Democrats and various independent politicians.Ahern noted, "Never, in all the time I've served in public life, have I put my personal interests ahead of the public good." Further going on to say, "I have never received a corrupt payment, and I've never done anything to dishonor any office I have held." Adding, "I know in my heart of hearts I've done no wrong and wronged no one."Táiniste (Deputy Prime Minister) and Minister of Finance Brian Cowen is expected to succeed Mr. Ahern as both Taoiseach and leader of Fianna Fáil.Íngrid Betancourt, a former Senator in Colombia who was being held captive by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) until her rescue as part of Operation Jaque, has called for FARC to release all its hostages."We want freedom for everyone," said Betancourt while speaking to a crowd of thousands in Paris, France. This was followed by chants of "Libertad", the Spanish word for freedom.Thousands of people also marched through streets in Colombia after the broadcast of Betancourt's speech on Colombian television.Betancourt was one of the 15 hostages rescued on July 2 by the Colombian army, who tricked FARC into handing over the hostages by pretending to be part of a non-governmental organization. She was kidnapped in February 2002 while campaigning for President of Colombia.Despite the release of fifteen prisoners in Operation Jaque, FARC are still holding over seven hundred people in captivity. Betancourt also called for the release of Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit, abducted by Palestinian gunmen on 25 June 2006 and held hostage by Hamas since. Shalit holds a French citizenship and has been denied rights to Red Cross (ICRC) visitation.Dr. Beverly Hall, a central figure in an Atlanta, Georgia public schools cheating scandal since 2009, died at the age of 68 on Monday. The cause of death was reported as breast cancer, a disease she had been suffering from since 2004. At the time of her death Hall was still facing criminal charges relating to the cheating scandal.No official statement was released by Hall's family or her legal team regarding the circumstances of her death however her lawyers stated that Hall maintained her innocence "to her dying breath." Should she have been convicted of several offences, including racketeering, Hall could have been sentenced to up to 45 years imprisonment. Current Atlanta Public School Superintendent, Meria Carstarphen commented on Hall's death: "We offer our condolences to the family of Dr. Hall. Our thoughts and prayers are with her family and friends during this difficult time." Hall became the Atlanta Public School Superintendent in 1999. She previously held the position of Superintendent in Newark, New Jersey. During her time as Newark's Superintendent test scores only increased mildly and the school had financial problems; Newark's mayor, Sharpe James, criticised at the time, "[Hall] is getting out of here before you realize she hasn't done anything."She gained critical acclaim during her time in Atlanta and was recognized for innovative urban education. In 2009 she was awarded the title of National Superintendent of the Year. At the time of the award, Atlanta schools had seen a large improvement on test scores. Shortly after, The Atlanta Journal-Constitution published a report showing problems with test results. The report showed test scores had increased implausibly fast, and alleged the school internally detected problems but didn't act on the findings.  Evidence thereafter indicated test papers were tampered with. Hall, along with 34 other education officials, was indicted in 2013.In total twenty-one people pleaded guilty to charges relating to the cheating scandal while several others remain on trial. Hall became too ill to stand trail after the cancer spread to other parts of her body.Hall was born in Jamaica, and later moved to the United States. She is survived by her husband and a son.On May 12 Radio Free Asia reported some people outside China will get a "server connection has been reset" error message when they are trying to search some political keywords on Baidupedia. However, the Internet censorship is not just on Baidupedia because it's due to the keyword filtering technology on the Great Firewall of China.One of the first people to find this filtering technology was Shi-Min Fang, a biochemist with a stance against ethical lapses in China. Fang, whose site "新語絲" has been blocked by the PRC government for years, had found that his Chinese name cannot be searched since last August if someone outside China uses an Internet search engine that is based in China. He posted a message to his own forum. A forum visitor gave him a method to verify what he found. By randomly choosing a website URL that is in China and adding banned keywords to that URL, the server connection will be reset without displaying the normal "page does not exist" error message. Take http://www.163.com/六四 for example, if you use that URL to link to the site when you are outside China, you will find the server connection will be reset.A Chinese Wikinews reporter, Shi Zhao, also performed this test. He chose some political keywords such as "民主" (Democracy), "江泽民" (Jiang Zemin), "法轮功" (Falun Gong) and asked people to search on Google, Baidu and Sogou (a Chinese search engine developed by Sohu), and some Wikipedians from China, Taiwan and United States joined the test.From the test, Chinese tester Shi Zhao found there is no problem to search such political keywords on Chinese search engines other than Google. And Taiwanese testers H.T. Chien, Alex S.H. Lin and American tester roc found they will get the "server connection has been reset" error message when they tried to search those political keywords on Chinese search engines other than Google.From the test the testers believe that the keyword filtering technology on the Great Firewall of China is bi-directional. People outside China cannot visit any Chinese websites that have political keywords, and people in China cannot visit any websites outside China that has political keywords.Baidupeida that went online this April is a service that provided by the Chinese Internet search company, Baidu, and its form is very similar to Wikipedia, which is blocked by the PRC government since last year. It would also allow users to join the editing on Baidupedia.Three people are dead after five "brothers" attacked employees at the Bible publishing firm Zirve Publishing House in Malatya, Turkey. Two of the victims were Turkish and the other was German.The employees had their throats slashed and were tied up at the hands and ankles according to police.Later after the attack, four men were arrested. One was being treated for serious wounds when he attempted to jump out of a window when police went to chase him. All of the alleged killers are between 19 and 20 years old.According to police, the "five brothers" carried a letter saying "We are going to our deaths.""[I condemn the attacks] in the strongest terms.[We will] do everything to clear up this crime completely and bring those responsible to justice," said Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the German Foreign Minister."This is savagery," said Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the Turkish Prime Minister.Protests were taking place at the firm recently after the firm was accused of "proselytizing" a Muslim nation, but it is not known if the murders are related to the protests.The names of the victims or suspects have not been released.David Tchappat, a popular housemate recently evicted from the television reality program Big Brother Australia, has spoken out critically of his childhood experiences in the controversial religious group "Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren", referred to in Australian media as "Exclusive Brethren". Tchappat was a participant in the edition Big Brother Australia 2008, and was voted off the show on May 25.Tchappat, 33, a former police officer and presently a firefighter, left the controversial group at age 19. He says he attempted to leave at age 17 but was brought back by members of the group and "interrogated" by group leadership for months. Up until he left he had never eaten in a restaurant, listened to the radio or been to the movie theater. According to Macquarie National News, Tchappat's former community numbers number approximately 15,000 in Australia. Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren is a sect of Protestant Christianity and a breakaway group from Exclusive Brethren.Due to his departure from the group, Tchappat had to break off contact with family members still inside the organization, though at times he speaks with his parents. Members do not vote in elections because they feel it contradicts their belief that God should determine who is in power, but they provide finances to the Liberal Party of Australia. Tchappat's cousin Andrew left the group a few months after he did.After getting to know his fellow Big Brother Australia housemates for three weeks, Tchappat recounted some of his experiences in his former religious group. "Look, I don't like to say it's a cult, but it basically is. My whole life was controlled. I didn't have a say in it myself," he said on one episode. He grew up in the Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren community in Gosford, New South Wales, and explained: "It's based on Christian values but it's very strict. So I had no TV, no radio, no computer, never been to a movie or a restaurant or kissed a girl - you name it, I didn't do it."In an interview Tuesday with former Big Brother Australia runner-up Tim Brunero on Macquarie National News, Tchappat said he is planning on releasing a book about his experiences growing up in the controversial religious group. "I've spent the last two years writing it. It just happened that I got into Big Brother in the tail-end of it. Obviously there's a few more chapters to add, but I'm really pumped, it's an interesting story," he said. He plans to title the book Losing my Religion. He was also interviewed by ninemsn on Tuesday, and said he does not regret discussing his experiences in Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren on Australian national television. "I'm an example of how you can go out and be successful. I say to people that if you are thinking about leaving, and you're serious, take a punt and give it a go. You can always go back if you don't like it." Former members of the group were inspired by Tchappat's comments and empathized with his experiences in posts to Big Brother Internet message boards.Prime Minister of Australia Kevin Rudd criticized the Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren group in August 2007. At the time he was leader of the Australian Labor Party, and requested that then-Prime Minister John Howard reveal what took place in a private meeting with senior members of the religious group. "I believe this is an extremist cult and sect. I also believe that it breaks up families," said Rudd to reporters in Adelaide according to The Sydney Morning Herald. He noted that the organization was being investigated by the Australian Federal Police for prior election activities, and wanted to know how much funding had been given by the group to the Liberal Party. During his election campaign Rudd called on Australian federal agencies including the anti-money laundering agency Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Centre (AUSTRAC), the Australian Federal Police, the Australian Taxation Office, and the Australian Electoral Commission to investigate the activities of Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren. In spite of Rudd's criticism of Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren, the religious group was guaranteed AUD10 million in taxpayer funding for its school facilities in January 2008. Rudd had promised during his election campaign to maintain education funding levels for non-government schools if he became Prime Minister.Australia media reported on May 18 that Rudd rejected a request from former members of Raven-Taylor-Hales Brethren to investigate the group. 34 ex-members of the religious group had sent a letter to the Prime Minister's office asking him to investigate how they were treated in the organization. A spokesman for Rudd said that the ex-members should instead take their request to the police, and that a government investigation would raise religious freedom issues. Rudd's chief of staff David Epstein said that the Prime Minister "does not resile from the views he expressed last year" and "remains concerned about the reported imposition of doctrines that weaken family bonds". Australian Greens spokeswoman Christine Milne told Australia's ABC News said that the well-being of children still in the group should be of primary concern. "The issue here is not about religious freedom, it is about what this cult is doing to destroy families and effectively to undermine the law," said Milne. Ex-member Peter Flinn, who wrote the letter sent to Rudd which was signed by 33 other former members, was disappointed by the Prime Minister's response. "We just want to highlight other equally fundamental human rights, such as access to family who remain Brethren members, a right callously denied for decades," he said in a statement in The Sydney Morning Herald. Senator Bob Brown of the Australian Greens party has proposed a government inquiry into the group's public funding, tax concessions and possible practices that harm children.A sixteen-year-old girl from Lakhisarai district, Bihar, India, reported to the police on Sunday that she had been raped multiple times and thrown out of a moving train.She was found unconscious near the tracks not far from Kiul Junction by some locals who took her to a nearby hospital. She was later taken to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). A PMCH doctor commented anonymously, "She has received at least two dozen stitches in her private parts, both her feet are irrevocably damaged, her thigh bone is fractured and she has serious injuries on her waist. Her condition is very critical".The girl, a tenth grade student, said she was abducted in a field and raped on, by reports, Friday or Saturday, by two men; according to Indian newspaper DNA, Santosh Yadav and Mrityunjay Yadav. She was later raped by several others — by varying reports, three to six — and taken on a train from Chanan railway station. Two of the alleged assailants lived in the same locality, according to senior police officer SK Singhal.She was raped again, she said, on the train and received several wounds as the rapists mutilated her before throwing her out of the train. "I could hear them speaking that they should kill me and they threw me out of the train. When I gained consciousness, I was in a hospital", she said.As of Monday, police said one juvenile allegedly involved had been arrested.Leading off is the week-long Harley rally, followed by the next week's BikeFest. In and around town, both day and night are punctured by the sounds of bike engines gunned and revved at stop lights and in parking lots.  Groups of cycle riders dominate the streets.“By Friday night, the front parking lot will be a full line of motorcycles to the corner.” said motel owner Ranjan Patel. The Super 8 motel takes up half a block at its location in the heart of the downtown motel strip. “Both sides [of Ocean Blvd] are nothing but bikes.” Both she and her co-owner husband agree, the influx of bikers dwarf in size the numbers of tourists who visit during regular summer months for ocean-side and family amusement park attractions.The highly accesorised bikes, decked with chrome and polished to show it, flashed the townscape. Choppers made a showing, but road hogs dominated the ridership, often going twosome. Many rally goers arrived on the scene with SUV’s or big pickup trucks towing cargo trailers loaded with cycles.Growth in the sheer size of the two rallies led police to make changes in the handling of traffic flow. During BikeFest last year, the mostly black crowd that came in on the heels of the largely white Harley rally the week earlier, were faced with confusion when the two-lane Ocean Blvd was made one-way.A branch of the NAACP in Conway, the next town over from Myrtle Beach, alleged discrimination by Horry County and Myrtle Beach Police. They claimed authorities and police used an overwhelming and aggressive police presence, combined with a restrictive one-way traffic pattern, to intimidate and discourage the participants in the rally.An injunction was issued earlier this week by U.S. District Judge Terry Wooten, who ruled that bikers at both rallies be treated the same. Myrtle Beach city lawyers immediately filed an appeal to the ruling at the Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, saying "the trial court erroneously determined that the plaintiffs would likely succeed on the merits; that is, that the city of Myrtle Beach intentionally treats Memorial Day weekend tourists differently from others similarly situated because of their race."A plan to submit an opposition to the notice has already been announced by Michael Navarre, an attorney for Steptoe & Johnson, who represents the NAACP civil rights group. "We certainly don't think the judge has ruled erroneously," Navarre said, according to The Sun News.Traffic control and safety measures were in full swing Friday morning on US-17. Both directions of the 4-lane divided highway south of Myrtle Beach had traffic cones and parking barriers set up to control traffic. Large flashing road signs on each side of the highway warned cars to use the passing lane. The warning sign flashed a message that the right lane was for motorcycle use only. Police monitored the pull-offs near a Harley dealer's lot where popular attractions were set-up in the immediate vicinity.Yesterday, Brian McMonagle, a lawyer defending the U.S. actor Bill Cosby, accused the prosecution of attempting to exclude black jurors.  Cosby, who is black, is charged with drugging and sexually assaulting a white woman.Prosecutors claimed that one of the potential jurors, a black former police officer who had once sued the state, might have an anti-government bias that could skew her judgement in trial.  The judge overseeing the case, Steven T. O'Neill, decided to accept the prosecution's explanation but told Cosby's lawyers he would entertain their accusations of racial bias if they came back with statistical evidence.  Of eleven jurors seated as of yesterday, ten were white and one was black.  Out of the 100 potential jurors examined, sixteen were non-white and about a dozen were black.  Of the eleven, seven were men, four were women.  One juror and six alternates had yet to be selected.Nearly 3000 residents of Pennsylvania's Allegheny County have been called to report for jury selection for just one trial.  After selection, eighteen of those people will be bused about 300 miles (500 km) to Norristown where the trial of Bill Cosby for the alleged 2004 sexual assault of Andrea Constand is scheduled to begin on June 5.The area around Pittsburgh was chosen as as source of jurors at the request of Cosby's legal team, who were concerned about the interest that politicians elsewhere in Pennsylvania have shown in the case.Judge O'Neill, was present for jury selection: "No one should make an effort to be on this jury, and no one should make an effort to not be on this jury," he instructed the first set of 100 potential jurors.The first round of winnowing was done by questionnaire.  Potential jurors were asked if they had religious beliefs or experiences with criminals that might affect their ability to serve impartially.  Jurors were asked if they or anyone they know has been sexually assaulted, and about a third said yes. Jury selection specialist Howard Varinsky, who worked on the Scott Peterson and Timothy McVeigh cases, said the judge would be likely to dismiss jurors who said yes to that question; and said defense lawyers would likely favor black jurors who might question the veracity of reports from police officers and older jurors who may see Cosby's alleged victim as an adulteress.Under Pennsylvania jury selection rules, either side may reject any number of jurors "for cause," meaning either that they have some health problem or work obligation that would make jury service an undue hardship for them or that there is some proof that they could not be impartial.  Someone who has admitted to hating or loving Cosby could be struck for cause.  Each legal team may also strike seven jurors and three alternates regardless of their reasons, which they are not obliged to share with the court. However, they are not allowed to exclude jurors solely because of their race or gender, which is what Cosby's lawyers allege the prosecution attempted to do Tuesday.Over the past few years, about 40 women have accused Bill Cosby of drugging and sexually assaulting them.  One woman besides Constand is expected to testify to establish that Cosby's actions were part of a predatory pattern. Cosby claims his encounter with Constand was consensual and says he hopes to restore his reputation and career.  If convicted, Cosby, who is currently 79 years old, could serve 10 years in prison.Bill Cosby is best known for his role on The Cosby Show, which earned him the nickname "America's Dad."Judge O'Neill has already decided to sequester the jury for the trial, estimated at about two weeks.A bill to eliminate corruption has been introduced into the lower house of India's parliament, but critics including lawyers and human rights activists are skeptical of the measures contained.The Draft Lokpal Bill, introduced into parliament on Thursday, seeks to establish an ombudsman, or Lokpal, to investigate wrongdoing by government and officials. It comes after decades of campaigning against government corruption and the hunger strike of anti-corruption activist Anna Hazare earlier this year.But the bill has been heavily criticized by Indian activists and lawyers who claim that it does not meet the needs of the people and will not free the country from corruption.The exemption of the prime minister and other members of parliament from being investigated will prevent it from working successfully, they argue. "There is no substance in the discussion that the prime minister should be out of the Lokpal Bill," a judge on the Supreme Court said on Wednesday, speaking outside his official capacity.Following his hunger strike in April, Hazare pushed Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to re-introduce the Lokpal Bill into Parliament. But he has condemned its current form calling it "a cruel joke." Hazare will again protest to have the draft bill revised and changed. "I will start my hunger strike from August sixteenth," he said.Prakash Karat, general secretary of the Marxist Communist Party, yesterday said that the bill will set up "a very weak Lokpal – a Lokpal that has no effective powers". He also said that allowing government officials to appoint the Lokpal would affect its independence. After meeting with lawyers of the Allahabad High Court Friday, members from India Against Corruption, a citizen's movement, said that the lawyers agreed that the introduced Lokpal Bill would not get rid of corruption in India. Mark Dummit, from The BBC, said that there is no guarantee that the bill will be passed. Past attempts have been denied by the upper house of Parliament since 1969.Wednesday, an American military tribunal at Guantanamo Bay, in Cuba found Salim Hamdan, a Yemini and Osama bin Laden's former driver guilty of supporting terrorism.Today, the jury handed down a sentence of 66 months, with credit for time already served. This means that Hamdan could be released in five months. Prosecutors had sought a thirty-year sentence.Pentagon spokesperson Bryan Whitman said: "He will serve out the rest of his sentence. At that time he will still be considered an enemy combatant, but he will be eligible for review by an Administrative Review Board." After hearing the sentence Hamdan said to the jurors, "I would like to apologise one more time to all the members and I would like to thank you for what you have done for me." He smiled and thanked those in the courtroom as he left.The ten-day trial was the first to test the Bush Administration's military-tribunal system for people suspected of terrorism. The trial allowed evidence which would not be allowed in either a civilian or a military court, including hearsay as evidence for the conviction of Hamdan.The original charges to Hamdan included five counts of supporting terrorism, but the judge, Navy Capt. Keith Allred, ordered only one count factor into the sentencing. Allred summarized the charge as "driving Mr. bin Laden around Afghanistan".Hamdan will have at least two appeals — one to the person appointed to oversee the tribunals, and one to a military appeals court — and possibly more at a later date.Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman told Reuters that the military plans to move forward with trials for 20 other suspected terrorists at Guantanamo, including five facing execution if convicted in connection with planning the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C..The United States has tried Hamdan before, once being appealed to the United States Supreme Court. In Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, a 2006 case before the court, the court found the previous tribunal system lacked "the power to proceed because its structures and procedures violate both the Uniform Code of Military Justice and the four Geneva Conventions signed in 1949". Two cases were dropped before the current one was tried.Birmingham Central Mosque in the Highgate area of Birmingham, UK was burgled and set on fire early Saturday morning.Emergency services arrived within a matter of minutes after smoke was reported billowing from the building.  The mosque was empty at the time, resulting in no injuries.Damage is said to be confined to an office. West Midlands Police say an investigation is now being coordinated.Valence Media, the parent company behind popular BitTorrent index site TorrentSpy, has filed a federal lawsuit against the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), alleging that the organization hired a hacker to break into TorrentSpy's servers and steal private information.The lawsuit, which Valence Media and various employees filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, charges the MPAA with conspiracy, unlawful business practices, misappropriation of trade secrets and violations of the California Invasion of Privacy Act and the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1985.According to the lawsuit, MPAA employee Dean Garfield paid an unnamed hacker US$15,000 to steal email correspondence and other sensitive information, allegedly telling him that they "don't care how you get it".In June of 2005, TorrentSpy alleges, the hacker then broke into the servers, obtaining private emails, invoices, billing information and an Excel spreadsheet detailing TorrentSpy's income and expenses.In an interview with CNET, Kori Bernards, the vice-president of the MPAA, called the allegations "false" and implied that TorrentSpy might be trying to deflect attention from the MPAA's own lawsuits against the site.Loki Torrent, a site that tracks links to BitTorrent files, was sued by the motion picture industry for copyright infringement on December 14, 2004, but has decided to mount a legal defense. The site operators have set up a legal defense fund in order to raise the $30,000 per month they estimate will be necessary to cover legal costs. The suit was filed in a U.S. District Court in Texas on behalf of Columbia Pictures – a major movie studio. The lawsuit is part of the MPAA campaign to crack down on Internet piracy.The lawsuit did not initially mention the site's operator, Edward Webber — instead, the suit was filed against a set of people named "John Doe" to be identified at a later point.Loki Torrent's popularity had increased dramatically in recent days after the prominent BitTorrent site SuprNova.org shut down in a preemptive move to avoid a lawsuit [1].Last June, Black Box Voting successfully sued Palm Beach county, Florida for their audit record of the 2004 presidential election.  The organization, which opposes most current electronic voting initiatives, examined the machines logs and recently released a report of their findings.Black Box Voting claims that "The internal logs of at least 40 Sequoia touch-screen voting machines reveal that votes were time and date-stamped as cast two weeks before the election, sometimes in the middle of the night [after the Logic & Accuracy tests but before the election]."Such access, they claim, requires "a high degree of inside access", but represents a "hasty or clumsy" intrusion.  The Hursti experiments have demonstrated that such access need not leave any trace if done carefully.The Palm Beach County Supervisor of Elections, Arthur Anderson, has responded that his staff investigated the problem and found the votes to be normal, but that "the dates somehow changed."Jeff Darter, an IT official for Palm Beach County, has declined a request,  by a member of the Palm Beach County electronic voting technical committee, for the identities of the individuals who had access to the machines.Black Box Voting also claims that the logs provide support for claims by some voters that the wrong candidate was selected when they tried to vote.  In addition, there appear to be numerous operator errors resulting in date, or other, inconsistencies.A black A-level student from Huyton, Merseyside, England has been murdered with an axe in what police have called a racist crime. He was 18 years old. Over 800 racist and religious hate incidents have been reported in London since July 7, a sharp increase from before the bombings.A hooded white man in his 20s directed a torrent of racist abuse at Anthony Walker who was at a bus stop outside the Huyton Park pub where Walker waited with his white girlfriend and cousin. The three walked away from the racial abuse without retaliating, but a gang of up to four white men caught up with them as they crossed McGoldrick Park. Mr. Walker's girlfriend and cousin ran to get help. When they returned, they found Mr. Walker on the ground with an axe embedded in his skull. He died at 0525 BST on Saturday 28 July 2005.As of Monday, 1 August 2005, 05:00 GMT, Merseyside Police have arrested a 17-year-old white. They released an 18-year-old held on Sunday morning. They also want to question Paul Taylor and Michael Barton, brother of Manchester City midfielder Joey Barton, who they believe may have left the United Kingdom.The story has sent shockwaves across the country, being the front-page story of The Independent and Daily Mirror on August 1st [1] [2], and echoing the murder of Stephen Lawrence in 1993, also an 18-year-old black student.Lawyers for former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich claim that the judge in his corruption trial inappropriately dismissed hundreds of potential jurors without consulting any of the parties in the case. As the trial is likely to last for several months, US District Judge James Zagel had stated in a previous hearing that he would conduct a "hardship screening" process and dismiss those jurors he feels would be burdened by this duty. The defense team, however, argues that it must be involved in such changes to the jury pool and claims that over 300 people may have been dismissed in this "unilateral" move. The lawyers are expected to request a redo of the selection process during a status hearing before Zagel on Thursday. The trial is scheduled to begin on June 3. Blagojevich's lawyers have already filed a request with the US Supreme Court to delay the trial on different, constitutional grounds. Justice John Paul Stevens has given prosecutors until Friday to respond to that motion.Police have arrested Lord Levy, chief fundraiser to the  Labour Party and close associate of Tony Blair.  Lord Levy was arrested by the Specialist Crime Directorate of London’s Metropolitan police as part of an on-going investigation into the cash-for-peerages row which has troubled the Labour government since the start of the year. He was bailed on Wednesday afternoon without charge pending further enquiries.In a statement, Lord Levy said the arrest was “totally unnecessary”. A spokesman also said: "He has not been charged and does not expect to be, as he has committed no offence." The cash-for-peerages affair erupted earlier this year, after an independent body reported that Tony Blair had sold peerages (the title of Lord) to businessmen in exchange for secret donations to the Labour Party. This potentially breaks the Honours (Prevention of Abuses) Act of 1925 which was originally introduced after Prime Minister Lloyd George was caught selling peerages for personal funds. The ruling Labour Party admitted soon after that it had borrowed over £14 million before the last general election in 2005. The opposition Conservative Party also admitted it had been loaned £16 million by wealthy businessmen. It’s believed that as chief fundraiser, Lord Levy arranged the Labour Party’s loans. All political parties deny any wrong-doing, although the arrest of one of the Prime Minister’s closest allies is going to provide yet more scandal for the already troubled party. Downing Street has so far declined to comment on what they call a “party matter” and Levy himself has accused the police of “over-reacting”. Some politicians have commented  that the situation could be very serious for Mr. Blair.Tony Blair has been asked to speak out on behalf of a British artist, Michael Dickinson, who has been charged in Turkey with "insulting the (Turkish) prime minister's dignity". This carries a sentence of up to 3 years in jail. The case was brought after Dickinson displayed a collage showing Tayyip Erdogan, the Turkish Prime Minister, as a dog, being awarded a rosette by President Bush in a pet show.During his address to the Labour Party Conference today, Tony Blair told the party members that there must be further public service reforms. He highlighted reforms needed for the criminal justice system.Tony Blair intimated that he would not be stepping down early as prime minister with a policy heavy speech. He apologised that Labour  had not gone further with it's reforms and that they should stay the change makers. Rather than announcing a date for his retirement, which he says will be before the next election, he praised Gordon Brown's record as Chancellor"So now in turn, we have to change again," he said. "Not step back from New Labour but step up to a new mark a changing world is setting for us."Mr. Blair said that he wanted to form a new consensus on public services and respond to concerns over crime.One Frontier Constabulary official died and several other people were injured on Monday when a remote-controlled bomb was detonated at Panjgur, in the Balochistan province of Pakistan. The Balochistan Liberation Front (BLF) later claimed responsibility for the attack.Witnesses say the bomb was planted in a motorbike parked on Hospital Road in the town. When town security vehicles were passing, the bomb exploded. A security official, identified as Head Constable Mohammad Rafique, was killed. Ten others were severely injured; according to witnesses, this included six civilians. The victims were immediately rushed to hospital.The blast was so powerful that the sound could be heard in a significant area of the town. Three of the injured were Frontier Corps (FC) officials. Some victims are said to be in a critical condition. Frightened shopkeepers soon shut down after the incident. Police soon arrived in the area to take control of the situation.Doda Baloch, spokesman for the BLF, called journalists to say that they had executed the attack with a remote-controlled motorcycle bomb. He claimed the attack killed eight from the security forces, including an officer.An investigation into this explosion is underway, said Panjgur police.The Sri Lankan highways minister, Jeyaraj Fernandopulle, was today killed, by a bombing, while attending an event to mark the upcoming Tamil New Year. Over 14 others were also killed in the blast.At least 90 others were injured.The Media Minister for Sri Lanka commented on the bombings. "It was a suicide bombing of the Tigers," he said. 'Tigers' was referring to the militant organization, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, and is recognised by over 30 countries as a terrorist organization. The Tigers are advocates of a separate state in Sri Lanka for the Tamil minority.Seven people were killed and 37 were injured Saturday night at an Internet cafe in the southwest region of China's Guizhou province, after the explosion of chemicals being stored illegally at a chemical shop. Chinese state media reported that sodium nitrate, aluminum chloride, and other chemicals were being kept in a nearby chemical shop and exploded at about 11:05 pm local time (1505 UTC), causing the Internet cafe to catch on fire. It is unknown how the chemicals ignited.Forty five people were in the cafe when the explosion occurred. Six people died on the scene while one woman suffered major burns and later died in hospital. One person escaped without injury.The police detained the owner of the chemical shop for "illegal possession of chemicals" according to state media. The cafe manager and boss were also placed in police custody for questioning.Xinhua reports that one of the bodies was that of a child. Children under the age of eighteen are not allowed in Internet cafes under Chinese law.According to Li Feiyue of the Qiandongnan Miao-Dong Autonomous Prefecture, "The location and environment of the Internet cafe is not safe. We will find out who approved its operation and who was in charge of safety supervision. They will be held responsible."Residential buildings in the area also suffered damaged.A lone blogger has recently mailed a request for re-examination of the Amazon "One-Click" shopping patent to the US Patent Office. As prior art, he is using an early e-commerce patent and some information about DigiCash from sources such as the Wayback machine, which ironically uses data from Alexa (wholly owned by Amazon).He is asking others to submit additional prior art and points out that there may be other prior art that can be found. He is also looking for donations to cover some of his costs such as the USD $2,520 reexamination fee.Pioneer Malaysian bloggers Ahiruddin Attan and Jeff Ooi have been sued for defamation by a leading Malaysian newspaper, The New Straits Times. They are alleged to have defamed top executives of the English daily. The case marks the first time bloggers have been sued for libel in the country.The oldest newspaper group in Malaysia is owned by the Media Prima group, which is in turn owned by the United Malays National Organization, the leading party in the government.Malaysia has strict media laws but they function less effectively on newer forms of electronic media. Leading members of the ruling coalition, Barisan Nasional (the National Front) have suggested making amendments to its media laws, such as to punish bloggers who publish materials that are deemed controversial and "anti-government".Opposition leader Lim Kit Siang expressed concerns that the action will have a chilling effect on popular blogs that have expressed discontent with the incumbent administration.Wikinews interviewed author Marc Headley about his new book Blown for Good, and asked him about life inside the international headquarters of Scientology known as "Gold Base", located in Gilman Hot Springs near Hemet, California. Headley joined the organization at age seven when his mother became a member, and worked at Scientology's international management headquarters for several years before leaving in 2005.Scotland Yard detectives, who went to Jamaica to probe Bob Woolmer's death, came to the verdict of the murder investigation saying Bob Woolmer died of heart failure and was not murdered. Reports said the Jamaican detectives would announce at a press conference the following week that they were no longer treating the death as murder and instead believed Woolmer died of heart failure caused by chronic ill health and possibly diabetes.On March 18, 2007, following Pakistan's shock defeat by Ireland in the 2007 Cricket World Cup a day earlier, Pakistan coach Bob Woolmer was found unconscious in his hotel room at the Jamaica Pegasus Hotel in Kingston, Jamaica and died hours later. On March 22, Jamaican police confirmed that a murder investigation has been launched due to the circumstances of Woolmer's death, specifically that he had died of asphyxia and was then being treated as a murder investigation.Chess prodigy and former world champion, Bobby Fischer, arrived by jet Thursday in Iceland after being released from prison in Japan the day before. Jailed 9 months in Japan for traveling without a valid passport, and dogged by a U.S. felony charge for violating a government sanction, the 62 year old eccentric chess genius was just last week granted Icelandic citizenship based on humanitarian grounds.In a first order of business to clear Fischer's way into Iceland, a lawsuit was filed by his lawyer where he alleges the U.S. government conspired to have him arrested, and that his right to "due process" was violated by not providing him notice of the revocation of his passport.Describing his detention as “…harsh conditions, amounting to torture,” Fischer said he was “kidnapped” by U.S. President Bush and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi.The U.S. refuses to acknowledge Fischer’s status as citizen of Iceland, but the lawsuit blocks his deportation to the U.S. until the legal matter is resolved. Iceland does have an extradition treaty with the U.S., meaning Fischer’s troubles are far from over now. If deported to the U.S., the felony charge he faces could carry a maximum 10 year sentence.The U.S. charges Fischer with violating government sanctions 13 years ago against Yugoslavia. He traveled to Serbia, then part of Yugoslavia, for a 1992 rematch against Boris Spassky, a Russian chess king, who Fischer defeated in 1972 to become world champion in a famous showdown in Reykjavik, Iceland.During his flight to a stop-over in Copenhagen while en route to Iceland, Fischer conducted an interview with AP Television News on board. "Bush does not respect law," he told the AP. "It's like in the comics, like Billy Batson used to say 'Shazam!' and he becomes Captain Marvel. He (Bush) just says 'Enemy Combatant! Now you have no legal rights.' It's a farce," he said. "This is absolutely cooked up between Bush and Koizumi."Very opinionated, but normally less outspoken, Fischer’s verbal attacks express outrage over the treatment he is receiving.A family of four found shot to death Friday alongside Florida's Turnpike in Fort Pierce, Florida was identified Saturday.The bodies of Jose Luis Escobedo Jr., 28, Yessica Escobedo, 25, and their two sons, Luis Damian, 3, and Luis Julian, 4, were identified by St. Lucie County Sheriff Ken Mascara.Sheriff's deputies are also looking for the family's car, a black 1998 Jeep Cherokee with temporary Florida licence plate M952180 in the rear window. Authorities believe that this was a suspect's car, as it was not at the victim's home, but neighbors of the family said that it was their car.Sheriff Ken Mascara has said that the victims pulled their vehicle off the Turnpike between 1:30 and 3 a.m. when someone in the vehicle shot them and drove away.A woman who lives across the turnpike reported hearing a series of six loud pops around 2:24 a.m. The woman and her husband looked outside, but could not see anything in the dark.The St. Lucie County Sheriff's office has set up a tip line. Those with information are encouraged to call 1-(772)-462-3230 or 1-(800)-273-TIPS.Sheriff Mascara said that more than 200 phone calls have come in to the tip line since they opened it up Friday afternoon.Seven bodies have been discovered in a mobile home in New Hope Plantation trailer park in Brunswick, in the US state of Georgia.Glynn County Police are now holding a murder investigation as to how the bodies got there. They were found shortly after 0800 local time by a family member of one of the victims who alerted the police.The police mentioned that when they got to the scene there were two critically injured people there. They were immediately taken to hospital.  Glynn County Police Chief Matt Doering said that in 25 years, this was the worst incident of its kind he had ever handled.He commented: "We have never had an incident with so many victims. It is not a scene that I would want anybody to see." He said that some of the victims had been tentatively identified, but declined to give out names or ages. He also declined to say how the victims had died when asked.Jimmy Durben of Glynn County's coroner office said: "It was the worst scene I have ever witnessed in my 17 year history at the coroner's office."In Buenaventura,   500km southwest of capital city Bogota,  Colombia, fishermen found the bodies of 12 young men who were killed and thrown into the sea. According to local newspapers, residents and authorities accuse the revolutionary communist army called FARC. The victims have been identified, and according to El Pais they are: Iver Valencia, aged 21; Víctor Alfonso Angulo, aged 20; Leonel Salcedo García, aged 20; Mario Valencia, aged 19; Alberto Valencia, aged  18; John Jairo Rodallega, aged 18; Rubén Darío Valencia, aged 18; Pedro Luis Aramburo Congo, aged 18; Carlos Arbey Valencia, aged 17; Pedro Pablo Valencia, aged 17; Concepción Rentería Valencia, aged 16 ; Javier Borja, aged 15.There are indications that the victims were tortured. Their eyes were pulled out and they were shot in the head.According to reports, on Monday a man came on a motorcycle and invited the group of young men to take part in a soccer game. The victims' parents and other relatives did not receive any further contact from them and notified the police on Wednesday.  All the children lived in the Punta del Este district of Buenaventura.Colombian authorities say that this act may be revenge by FARC for the arrest of their leader Poca Lucha, but a specific motive has not been clearly identified. No suspects have yet been named.The bodies of two of the four Alabama children allegedly thrown off a bridge by their father have been found. On Saturday, Danny Luong, the youngest of the children at four months old, was discovered by a duck hunter in a marshy area near Bayou la Batre, about 5 miles west of the 80 foot high Dauphin Island Bridge. A second child, 3-year-old Ryan Phan, was found near Barton Bay by a search and rescue team today at 10:30 am local time. Barton Bay is about 10 miles northwest of the bridge.The father, Lam Luong, a 37 year old shrimp fisherman, has been charged with four counts of capital murder. If convicted, he faces either the death penalty or life imprisonment without parole. "The inevitable nightmare we have feared has now been confirmed. We believe, certainly now, that the father of these children threw these children off the Dauphin Island bridge," Mobile County sheriff Sam Cochran said on Saturday.Luong and his wife, Kieu Ngoc Phan, reported the children missing on Monday. When questioned, Luong claimed responsibility for the act, saying that he threw the children into the river after an argument with his wife. However, he later retracted his confession, instead claiming that two women, one of whom is named "Kim", took the children and drove off in a van.Kieu Ngoc Phan was informed of the body's discovery on Saturday. "Why didn't he kill me instead of the children? It's too much hurting," Phan said through an interpreter while weeping. She was being comforted by an associate pastor from a Vietnamese church.According to the family, Luong called from jail and told them he wanted to be "more famous than the 9/11 hijackers" and that he "wasn't afraid of the electric chair".The search continues for the other two children - Hannah Luong, 2, and Lindsey Luong, 1. The search area has been expanded across the state border towards Pascagoula, Mississippi, as authorities believe the strong currents may have moved the bodies westward. Mobile County Commissioner Steve Nodine reports that the search is costing an estimated $100,000 per day.Toronto, Ontario police are currently investigating human remains encapsulated in concrete from Lake Ontario.  A barrel held the concrete-encased body found offshore at the Toronto waterfront.  The neighbouring area is currently under development for another new city park as the harbourfront is a popular tourist destination.Detective Justin Vander Heyden stated that the barrel holds "a victim of murder, encased in concrete", and that he has "a good idea of who's in the barrel" but conclusive information should be forthcoming by Tuesday from the coroner's office.Ontario provincial police (OPP) are also investigating two other bodies this long weekend in May.  Human remains were found in a construction area near Barrie and a body was also found near Huntsville in a roadside ditch. A firebombing at a Royal Bank of Canada branch in Ottawa has resulted in an urgent call for OPP re-inforcements. Ontario security has been increased in preparation for the June 26-27 G20 summit at the Metro Toronto Convention Centre and the G8 summit in Huntsville and the ensuing arrival of international leaders and delegations.Police searching for a missing two-year-old girl have found a body in a drain in Auckland, New Zealand.New Zealand Police have been searching for two-year-old Aisling Symes, who disappeared one week ago after being spotted for the last time near her grandparents' house in the Henderson region.  The body was found in that area at around 8:00 PM local time on Monday.  Bob Harvey, who is the mayor of Waitakere City, made a statement Monday night confirming that the remains of a human body had been found.Inspector Gary Davy made a statement on behalf of New Zealand Police, saying that it was "with tremendous sorrow" that the body had been found. He also said: "It is too early at this stage to know how the child got there, or in fact, how long the child was in the drain."Police are speaking with the family of Aisling Symes, but it is too early to determine for certain that it is Aisling," Davy said. "The immediate scene has been cordoned off and it is now being treated as a crime scene."A body was found on a Kingwood Street in Houston, Texas today. Police said the unidentified man appeared to have no signs of injuries from a car, but police said there was a large amount of blood. He was taken to a local morgue for a autopsy as detectives question people in the neighbourhood on the man's death.The man was found lying in the middle of a intersection at 2:20 a.m. local time.The body of Anson Tripp, 29, of Amherst, Massachusetts, a Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute alumnus was found in the South East stairwell of the CII building of the school's Troy, New York campus by a college employee at approximately 10 AM. The former student had driven to RPI that morning from his home in Amherst, Massachusetts.  Tripp left his home in Amherst in the morning and drove to Rensselaer, where he entered the CII and climbed to the top of one of the stairwells and apparently jumped to his death.  He suffered multiple broken bones and head trauma in the jump, and his body came to rest between the fourth and fifth floors.In a letter to the school community, President Shirley Jackson begins:Initially authorities said the wound was "consistent with that from a gunshot," however an autopsy determined that the broken bones and trauma to the head were sustained during the fall.  Earlier in the day, police indicated that "it’s possible the victim fell from the ninth floor after being injured somehow." (WNYT)  People in the building had reported hearing shots, but authorities were unable to confirm a shooting and later determined there was no weapon involved.The building was locked down as the Troy police emergency response team and Colonie SWAT team went room to room securing the facility.  School president Dr. Jackson (quoted above) urged students and all non-essential staff to also leave campus (except for the dorms).Tripp was in the class of 2000 with majors in computer science and mathematics, and a member of Alpha Phi Omega, Epsilon Zeta chapter.  Memorial service were held at Grace Episcopal Church on Wednesday, April 4th at 3PM EST.CNET reporter James Kim has been found dead in the southwestern Oregon wilderness after getting lost with his family on November 25. Kim, 35, was found at 12:00 noon Wednesday, half a mile away from the Rogue River.His wife Kati Kim, 30-years-old, and her two young children were found alive on December 4 after they waved an umbrella to a private helicopter. Kati and her two children were airlifted out of the area and transferred by ambulance to Three Rivers Community Hospital in Grants Pass. Kati suffered frostbite on two toes, but it is expected that she will be in good condition.The Kim family left San Francisco, California on November 17 on a road trip to the Pacific Northwest. After, they planned to go back home to San Francisco but were stranded in a storm that led to their disappearance.They stayed warm while they were stranded by using the car heater and then burned tires when they ran out of gas. Kim walked into the Oregon mountains Saturday to get help for his wife Kati and his children. Pieces of map and some clothing were found on the mountains Tuesday by rescuers. It is believed that Kim was marking his trail for them. The wet clothing included two gray sweat shirts, a red T-shirt, a sock, and a blue girl's skirt."They were laid out in a well defined area, in a pattern," Lt. Gregg Hastings of the Oregon State Patrol said.Fog caused the police to wait till midday. "This is frustrating. We are so close," one rescuer said. "There are people pouring their heart and soul into this. We are not going to quit until we find him."Kim's family is not yet available for comment.A woman found buried in sand in a bathtub has been named as missing Briton Lindsay Ann Hawker.The body of the 22-year-old English language teacher was identified by colleagues after it had been found on the balcony of a flat in Ichikawa, Chiba Prefecture, Japan. She arrived from England about three months ago, and worked in a conversation school.Police in Chiba prefecture are hunting a man who fled the apartment, to which she went each Saturday to give lessons to a Mr Tatsuya Ichihachi.The body of Sarah Lunde, a missing 13-year-old Florida girl, was found very close to her home Saturday, authorities said.Lunde's body was found by a search-and-rescue dog in an abandoned fish farm about a half-mile away from her home, according to David Gee, sheriff of Hillsborough County. Lunde had been missing since last Sunday from her home in Ruskin, a town to the south of Tampa.Gee said the body had a green cast on one arm, just as Sarah did. "The green cast is apparent," he said. He also stated that the body had been in the water for a long period of time, and that an autopsy would be performed to determine the cause of Lunde's death."The family is very distraught," Gee added.According to CNN, David Onstott, 36, was charged late Saturday night with first-degree murder Gee said. "He is the defendant.",Onstott confessed to the murder.He was arrested on Tuesday on a charge of aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. Aside from a 1995 sexual assault charge, Onstott is said to have been sighted at Lunde's house hours after Lunde disappeared, and grabbed a half-empty beer bottle as he left. This could possibly link him to the numerous beer bottles found around the area, which, it is rumored, will be subjected to DNA testing. Onstott was also arraigned on Thursday on charges of not registering as a sex offender and is currently being held in the Hillsborough County Jail. Although his bond was set at $250,000, sheriff's spokesman J.D. Callaway stated that since no bond was set on a Michigan drunk driving warrant Onstott is also being held for, there is no bond set on him for his various other charges, so Onstott is being held without bond for the moment.This case is now the second such case in a month. Jessica Lunsford's body was found in Citrus County, north of Tampa, after she had been missing from her home for three weeks.Convicted sex offender John E. Couey, who had been living near Lunsford's home, was arrested and charged with her murder after he confessed.A body that was discovered in the River Avon in Bath has been confirmed as missing student James Bubear. The 19 year-old went missing on March 13 after leaving a fancy dress party in the city centre. The creative writing student's death is not being treated as suspicious according to the Avon and Somerset police.The Bath University student went missing after attending a night out with friends. He left the Revolution bar around 10.30pm and was last seen on CCTV James Street West  on the night of his disapperence. His passport and phone was found the next morning by a street cleaner.Bubear's mother, Vanda released a statement saying "We would like to thank James's fellow students and the people of Bath for taking him as one of their own, and for the support they have given us in these last few difficult weeks. I would also like to thank them for their perseverance in trying to find James. Nothing seemed like it was too much trouble, and for that I am indebted to them."Concerns have been raised about the saftey on the River Avon in Bath. Marion Flagg's son Casper's body was found in the River Avon on Boxing Day in 2009. She said "It would be nice to see better lighting and to identify where blackspots are," she said. Perhaps we could have railings because there's nothing to stop you from walking straight from the Midland Bridge into the water. It's just a sheer drop and it's very dark."The skeletal remains of 14-year-old Escondido, California teenager Amber Dubois were found north of the Pala Indian Reservation Saturday morning, police said. Dubois disappeared February 13, 2009 while walking to Escondido High School. The San Diego County Medical Examiner's office made a positive identification through dental records.According to Escondido Police Chief Jim Maher, police were following a lead when they came across the remains. Maher declined to say what the lead was or to describe in detail the site where the remains were found. He also refused to reveal whether John Albert Gardner III, suspect in the murder of Chelsea King, is being linked to the Dubois case.Amber's father, Maurice Dubois, made a statement thanking those who had helped in the search for Amber. "The entire community, everybody who helped out with the search effort, and above all our huge volunteer corps, they are the most dedicated people and without them we couldn’t have done anything," he said.Police in Orlando, Florida have found the skeletal remains of a small child just a half mile from the location where 3-year-old Caylee Anthony went missing in June. According to WFTV, the remains appear to be that of Anthony, however there have been no confirmed reports from police regarding the find.According to reports, the body was found just after 9:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time in the woods near the intersection of Chickasaw Trail and Suburban Drive in Orlando, when an electric company meter reader found a bag. When he opened it a skull fell onto the ground. WFTV says when police arrived on the scene, they called Equusearch, a specialized search and recovery team from Texas, and spoke to the company's founder Tim Miller, saying "it looks like we got her".Caylee has been missing since June 9, but police were not notified of her disappearance until July 15. Caylee's mother Casey, 22, was charged with her daughter's murder after authorities found evidence of a decomposing body in Casey's car.Yesterday, Casey's lawyer, Jose Baez, said that there was evidence that Caylee was still alive. He presented a photo to the courts that a woman took at a shopping center that he says appears to be Caylee. He has asked a judge to order that the security camera footage be released for examination.The body of a dead man was found by a worker in the Los Cardos farm of Panilonco, located nearby Pichilemu, Chile on Saturday. The worker immediately contacted the Pichilemu Police, according to Radio Cooperativa.The body was hanging from a tree, tied with wire, when it was found. According to El Mercurio OnLine, the body belongs to Timoteo del Carmen Clavijo Clavijo, who disappeared in 2000 in Las Garzas, a village that was formerly included in the Pichilemu territory. Clavijo was 67 years old at that time. His body was found without his skull, according to Radio Cooperativa.It is believed that Clavijo committed suicide. His body was taken to the Forensic Medical Service of Rancagua, where it will be investigated.The Bolivian President Evo Morales announced Thursday he will file legal charges against the United States President Barack Obama for crimes against humanity. President Morales announced he was preparing litigation after Venezuelan President Nicholas Maduro's plane was allegedly denied entry into U.S. airspace over Puerto Rico.President Morales called Obama a "criminal" violating international law. Morales called an emergency meeting of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), made up of 33 member states including Argentina, Mexico and Chile, and encouraged member states to remove their ambassadors from the U.S. to show their solidarity. He asked Bolivarian Alliance member states to boycott the next United Nations meeting, to be held in New York on September 24. He also said the U.S. had pursued a policy of "intimidation" and have a history of blockading presidential flights. In July this year, the Bolivian presidential aircraft was prevented from landing in Portugal to refuel, allegedly at the request of the U.S. administration. After Italy, Spain and France each banned the aircraft from entering their airspace, it was ultimately forced to land in Austria. Here, the plane was boarded as part of the search for U.S. fugitive Edward Snowden. Several Latin American heads of state promptly condemned the actions.President Evo Morales is in his second presidential term after first being elected in 2005. He campaigned on the promise of alleviating Bolivia's crippling poverty — Bolivia was Latin America's poorest nation at the time he was elected — and is Bolivia's first indigenous leader. He became internationally recognisable for the striped jumper he wore while meeting with high level dignitaries, including kings and presidents, around the world. His actions as President have included halving his own salary and those of his ministers, seizing Bolivia's gas and oil reserves, and redistributing the nation's unused countryside to the poor.President Morales had been bound for bilateral talks in China. He maintains he will not be prevented from attending them.A bomb exploded early on Tuesday morning in Londonderry, Northern Ireland, injuring two police officers. Investigations into the identity of the bombers and their motive are continuing.  The Real Irish Republican Army a paramilitary group that aims to bring about a united Ireland, has claimed responsibility.The explosion on Culmore Road caused serious damage to nearby buildings, including Da Vinci's hotel and a branch of the Ulster Bank.  A telephone warning was given an hour beforehand and the area, including the hotel, was cleared.  The officers, standing near the edge of the exclusion zone, suffered injuries to their necks and ears when they were blown over by the blast.  Chief Superintendent Stephen Martin from the Police Service of Northern Ireland asked for anyone who had seen the Vauxhall Corsa car in which the bomb was hidden before the explosion to come forward. Although the bomb, thought to be over 200lb, was left near the bank, Mr Martin did not think it was the intended target and said that the bomb may have been left because of the presence of police in the area.The Deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland, Martin McGuinness, called the bombers "Neanderthals" and "conflict junkies", and added that they were "failing miserably" to destroy the peace process in Northern Ireland. He is attending the Conservative Party conference in Birmingham; the Daily Mail reports he refused to comment on if the attack was to coincide with his absence. The city's mayor, Colm Eastwood, who was at the scene, said he was "disgusted", adding "I do not know what these people are hoping to achieve. They say they love their country but they spend time trying to destroy it."Two buildings have been damaged in a bombing in Athens, Greece on Thursday. The target was a building owned by an agency that manages state real estate.Nobody was injured in the blast, but the building's entrance was damaged. A nearby store and a parked car also sustained damage. The homemade device, which consisted of explosives placed inside a plastic bag and tied to a pole close to the target, damaged the Hellenic Public Real Estate Corporation building.The area was cordoned off by police after the explosion, which occurred at 9:30 p.m. local time yesterday. Bomb disposal experts checked the area following the explosion, while anti-terrorism officers began their investigation. The building is about 250 yards from the Athens police headquarters, and is also close to the Supreme Court.No claim of responsibility has yet been made, but the Greek conservative government has been attempting to control left-wing terrorism in recent months. One group, the Revolutionary Struggle, was responsible for a failed car bombing against an Athens Citibank office on February 28, and also bombed a Citibank branch in the city on March 9. Greece has been receiving advice from police in London after the increase in terrorist activity and rioting last year throughout the nation.Twelve people were reported killed and 62 people injured in a terrorist attack outside gate number 5 of Delhi High Court, in India's capital New Delhi at around 10:15am (4:45 am GMT) on Wednesday.According to home secretary RK Singh, the explosives were hidden in a briefcase placed in the reception of the high court. At that moment hundreds of people were present on the site to get passes to attend court cases. Islamic fundamentalist organization Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami claimed the responsibility for these blasts. In an email sent to the media, the group demanded immediate repeal of the the death penalty given to Mohammed Afzal Guru, a terrorist involved in the attack on the Indian Parliament in 2001. They also warned that they could target other high courts and the Supreme Court of India.Victims injured in the attack have been taken to All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, and Safdarjang Hospital. As the accident site is not far from the Parliament and the Prime Minister's Office, the Delhi Police have cordoned off the area.Politicians including the Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader L. K. Advani, former Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu M. Karunanidhi, Indian National Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi, and BJP president Nitin Gadkari have condemned the attacks, as have numerous celebrities on Twitter."My heart goes out to the bereaved families and to those who are injured I convey my best wishes," Manmohan Singh said in a statement to the Indian journalists accompanying him on his two-day Bangladesh visit.At least five policemen are dead after a bombing took place near the Frontier Corps check post in Margala Road, Islamabad, Pakistan. Reports conflict as to whether the attack was a suicide bombing, but Interior Advisor Rehman Malik told SAMAA TV that it was.Police have cordoned off the area and the press is not being allowed within the zone of the attack.SSP Tahir Alam told Geo Web TV that the attack took place at 10pm local time as police were taking dinner. Although initial reports stated that gunfire was exchanged, Alam said that security forces only fired into the air to scare off other potential attackers.The attack comes less than two weeks after a March 23 bombing in Islamabad killed one police officer and injured another. Pakistani Taliban leader Baitullah Mehsud claimed responsibility for that attack; Mehsud also claimed responsibility earlier today for yesterday's shooting of 13 immigrants in Binghamton, New York, a claim the FBI has rejected.Two bomb explosions in Kampala, the capital of Uganda, killed at least 64 people earlier today, according to police reports.Authorities say the explosions took place at an Ethiopian restaurant, where customers were watching the World Cup final, and a rugby club.Inspector General of Police Kale Kayihura commented that "[t]hese bombs were definitely targeting World Cup crowds. [...] This was a terrorist attack.  It was a deliberate, calculated attack to inflict maximum damage."Felix Kulaije, an army spokesperson, suggested that the Somali rebel group al-Shabaab might be behind the attacks, saying that "[w]e suspect it's al-Shabaab because they've been promising this for [a] long [time]."An unnamed commander for al-Shabaab spoke to the Associated Press earlier today regarding the incident. Although he didn't indicate whether his group was responsible for the attacks or not, he said he was happy the bombings took place, saying: "Uganda is one of our enemies. Whatever makes them cry, makes us happy."If the group did indeed organize the bombings, then it would be the first time they had conducted attacks outside Somalia. Somali rebels have previously threatened to attack the Ugandan capital.A bomb exploded near the house of the Greek Culture Minister,Georgios Voulgarakis, in Lycabettus Hill, Athens, wrecking a number of cars.The device, which the police said consisted of 2-3 kg (4-7lb) of dynamite, had been placed on a bike left between two cars.The explosion at 7:42am (GMT +2), close to the home of Minister Voulgarakis, is the second time the former Minister for Public Order has been the target of a bomb attack.While the perpertrators are not yet known, Giorgos Voulgarakis, who had been receiving death threats, is unpopular with leftist parties over questions of immigration.A trained dog of a Greek anti-terrorist unit had been sniffing around the area of the Minister’s home each morning. The September 2003 attack nearly burned down his house.Two primary schools and a kindergarten nearby were slightly damaged but there were no reported injuries. As bomb technicians searched the school grounds, frantic parents rushed to take their children home.The leftist "Epanastatikos Laekos Agonas"(Revolutionary popular rally), is the group which some Greek media have accused for today's bomb attack. No official claim of responsibility has yet been made and the police investigation continues.All the Greek parties, including the major opposition party, PASOK; the Communist Party (KKE), Synaspismos and LAOS parties, have strongly condemned the terrorist attack.Five bombs went off nearly simutaneously in three Indian cities in the state of Uttar Pradesh. Court houses in Lucknow, Varanasi and Faizabad were rocked. The attack on the justice system killed 13 people and injured another 61."These are all soft targets. Weapons and explosives are no more a challenge for these groupings," said Ajai Sahni, an executive director of the New Delhi-based Institute for Conflict Management. "Uttar Pradesh has long been a target because it's a poorly administered state and a poor state."Police in New Delhi have increased security at bus stands, airports, shopping areas and railway stations. According to CNN IBN, the government will pay Rs.200,000 to the families of those killed. Those who were injured will receive Rp.50,000.In Lucknow, an unexploded device with a timer was found. All the other bombs went off at around 1:30 p.m. IST (UTC+5:30)."It's too early to say who are behind the blasts, but it is very clear that the blasts were pre-planned," according to Shriprakash Jaiswal, a junior home minister. "The investigating agencies have got down to the job."A bomb on an Iranian domestic passenger aeroplane was successfully defused by authorities on Saturday, according to officials.The bomb was found aboard a Kish Air flight departing from Ahvaz, bound for the Iranian capital of Tehran."15 minutes after the plane with 131 passengers took off, flight security guards found a handmade bomb placed in the lavatory. The plane landed immediately at Ahvaz airport and the bomb was defused," said the Fars news agency.The plane made an emergency landing at its departure airport at Ahvaz. After the bomb was defused, the flight took off again."The suspicious package and the details of the sabotage operation in the Tehran-Ahvaz Boeing is under investigation," said the head of the Revolutionary Guards air security operation, to the Iranian IRNA news agency."I do not confirm a link between this and the Zahedan operation. But we believe our enemies want to create a threatening environment before the presidential election and exploit the open space in the country and spark despair among people," he said.These are the latest in a series of attacks coming ahead of next month's presidential elections. The incident comes two days after a bomb attack on a mosque killed 25 people on Thursday. On Saturday three men were hanged for that attack, which officials blamed on al-Qaeda, the United States and Israel.A bomb exploded at 7:24 pm on Tuesday at the PayPal headquarters, a subsidiary of eBay, located in San Jose, California, causing the evacuation of employees from the building. Authorities stated that the explosion was "not an accident." Spokespeople for eBay said that the incident was "isolated" and that there were no injuries or deaths reported."It's definitely not an accident. Everything else there is accounted for. This was not any kind of accident or malfunction," said San Jose Police Sgt. Nick Muyo. He added that authorities have yet to find any kind of explosive device or material."We believe this is an isolated incident. We're working closely with local authorities. We have everything under control," said Amanda Pires, a spokeswoman for the PayPal division of the company.The blast was seen from the street and was located in an area where workers take breaks. The initial damage reported was a broken window near the blast site.Fire officials do not yet know the specifics of the bomb's makeup."Whatever it was, it disintegrated. Whatever caused this was pretty strong," said San Jose Fire Department Captain Jose Guerrero.The San Jose Police are working with agents from the Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives Bureau (ATF) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), but it is reported that the San Jose Police are in charge of investigating the blast. There are no suspects at this time.A bomb exploded in the Belarusian city of Vitebsk, injuring about forty-six people. The Thursday evening blast originated from a cafe in the city, which had an open-air structure and also had a dance floor, attracting many people. The bomb itself was planted in a flower bed next to the cafe.The Ministry of Emergency Situations has said that four of the forty-six people have been critically injured, and twenty-one more have been hospitalized. Local police have not found a suspect in the incident.The Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko said, "I understand that it is very hard to stay intact in the midst of this boiling pot of terrorism. Why do we think that terrorism is far away from us and cannot occur here? The society should be on the alert." Lukashenko called on citizens to aid law enforcement agencies during an address to the 39th congress of the Belarussian Youth Union.No suspect has been found in an earlier bombing incident that occurred in Vitebsk less than two weeks ago. An explosive beer can or metal box, laced with nails, was placed near a bus station. The detonation of the bomb also came from a flower bed and injured two people in the blast.Greek police have said that a bomb went off near the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and Parliament in the capital, Athens. No injuries have been reported as-yet. The incident occurred at 20:00 local time (1800 UTC).The bomb had apparently been planted in a bin in front of the Parliament building, and the detonation was so strong that it could be heard kilometres away. Approximately seventeen minutes before the explosion, Eleftherotypia, a national newspaper, received a phone call about the bomb, and the area had been cordoned off. This caused a major avenue in the centre of the capital to be closed, but prevented injuries when the blast occurred.The Associated Press reports a history of similar actions by left-wing groups since the death of a fifteen year-old protester at the hands of police. Casualties are rare as telephone warnings are usually issued for bombings, and such bombings often occur late at night. The last year has, however, seen the death of one policeman and several others wounded.Sixteen people were injured on Friday when a homemade bomb exploded in a crowded São Paulo street in Brazil.  The blast took place on March 25 Street where it was crowded with Christmas shoppers.  According to the police the bomb was left in a trash can.  One police official Patricia Fernandes said, "apparently (the bomb) was an amateur device but we haven't completed the examination."One woman remains hospitalized in serious condition.  According to police the other victims did not suffer life-threatening injuries.  The local media is saying that a pregnant woman and a 5 year old girl were also injured, but police did not confirm this.The bombing is believed to be related to police raids on counterfeit dealers in the area.  Fernandes stated that "One line of investigation is that this was a reprisal for for [sic] police actions in the area."Police in the United Kingdom are investigating after a bomb exploded in an Exeter restaurant at about 1250 BST. One person (believed by police to be the bomber) was injured, and a second device was found and made safe nearby. The suspect has been named as 22-year-old Nicky Reilly from Plymouth. He has been arrested and taken to hospital.The centre of the city was evacuated by police until about 1900 Local Time (UTC+1).Chief Constable Stephen Otter from Devon and Cornwall Police commented on the incident. He claimed that "the injured man had one of the explosive devices on him, which partially went off," and that "the other [explosive], in the vicinity of the restaurant, did not go off."Otter also reported collaboration between police forces. "The Devon and Cornwall force was working with the Metropolitan Police as we do with any explosion where we cannot understand why it happened."He refused to speculate on whether it was terrorism. "I would not say anything about terrorism at this stage because I do not know." The deputy chief constable of the police force said that the suspected bomber had been "preyed upon, radicalised and taken advantage of." Police say that Reilly, who had a history of mental illness, had recently converted to the Islamic faith.A bomb exploded on a busy, restaurant lined road, just 2 hours after U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice left Beirut today, wounding at least twelve people.Rice had made a surprise visit to pledge her support for Lebanon after the Syrian troop pull-out earlier this year.The blast went off at about 10 p.m. in front of a restaurant on Monot Street and damaged three cars, a security official told The Associated Press.The bomb is believed to have been placed either under or inside a parked car on a sideroad close to the privately run Saint Joseph University on the edge of Christian east Beirut. LBC Television initially said that 6 people had been injured, mostly by flying glass and that the car belonged to local resident Joseph Nadim. The estimate on the number of injured has since risen to 12.The attack was a "message" to the new government, announced this week and dominated by anti-Syrian ministers, said Tourism Minister Joseph Sarkis. He said the blast aimed to shake security and scare off the thousands of tourists, mainly from oil-rich Gulf countries, who spend summer vacations in Lebanon."It is a message against the government, against national reconciliation and national unity," Sarkis told the Dubai-based Al-Arabiya satellite channel.A suicide bombing killed more than 65 people, by varying reports, in Lahore, Pakistan, yesterday evening in Gulshan-e-Iqbal Park. More than 280 people were injured. Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, a Taliban-offshoot group, claimed the responsibility of the bombing which detonated just a few feet away from the swing-set.The claimant group said the bombing targeted the Christian minority in the nation. Ehansullah Ehsan told The Express Tribune, a Pakistani newspaper, "We claim responsibility for the attack on Christians as they were celebrating Easter".A 30-year-old eye-witness Hasan Imran said, in remarks to Reuters, "When the blast occurred, the flames were so high they reached above the trees and I saw bodies flying in the air." The country has had continuing problems with the Taliban. In 2014, more than 140 people were killed in a Peshawar school attack.After the incident, White House National Security Council spokesman Ned Price in a statement said "The United States stands with the people and government of Pakistan at this difficult hour. We will continue to work with our partners in Pakistan and across the region [...] to root out the scourge of terrorism". Indian Prime minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolence to Pakistani Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif by telephoning him; and said "The coward terrorists attacked children and women [...] It's condemnable to attack innocent children and women. We are with Pakistani nation at [this] time".Reuters reported hundreds of citizens donated blood for the needy. Punjab Chief Minister Shehbaz Sharif announced three-day mourning.Facebook added the security check for people to mark themselves safe after the incident.At least four policemen were killed today by a bomb which exploded in Somaliland, Somalia's breakaway republic. The bomb was hidden near a mosque, according to police sources and witnesses.The townspeople claim the bomb was detonated in front of the local mosque near a police station in the town. Four policemen in the police station were killed by the blast.No group has yet claimed responsibility for Monday's blast, which came two weeks after gunmen threw grenades at Las Anod police station, near the Puntland border, on January 12, and thereby injured two policemen. Late on Sunday, gunmen had ambushed and murdered a senior police officer while he was returning home. Also, a woman was had been killed in an explosion near Las Anod's hospital.Somaliland's security forces had prevented an attack on a Hargeisa mosque earlier this month. The imam of the mosque had condemned suicide bombings carried out by al Shabaab activists, which angered the insurgents.A political conflict between the president of Somaliland and the opposition over a delay in the general elections can lead to further explosions in the area.Police reports state that a bomb blast in a church in Nepal on Saturday has killed two people and injured at least a dozen more. The attack comes just hours before the national parliament was due to elect a new prime minister.The bomb detonated in the Church of the Assumption in the town of Lalitpur, located south of Nepal's capital of Kathmandu. The explosion occurred during the church's weekly function. Around 150 people were in the church at the time of the explosion."The wounded people have been rushed to a local hospital and we are investigating," police superintendent Kedarman Singh Bhandari said."A 15-year old student, Celestina Joseph, and 30-year-old Pabitra Paitri died in the bomb blast. Five of the injured are in serious condition," Ram Brish Chaudhary said to the Agence France Presse news agency. "Security has been increased and an investigation is going on."According to the Nepalese home ministry spokesman, Navin Ghimire, the National Defence Army, an obscure Hindu extremist group, left a message at the scene of the disaster, assuming responsibility for the explosion. The group says it wants to return Nepal's Hindu monarchy back to power after it was abolished last year. It has taken responsibility for the killing of a missionary in July of last year.This is the first bomb attack on a Christian church in Nepal. The country's population is predominantly either Buddhist or Hindu.Two bomb explosions in the northeastern Assam state of India have killed at least seven people and injured 25 more today.The blasts, which happened within several minutes of each other, occurred outside of a police station in the town of Nalbari, 70 kilometres from the state capital of Guwahati. According to security officials, the explosives were attached to bicycles.Police believe that the separatist rebels from the United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA) were behind the bombings, but a senior ULFA member denied that the group carried out the attacks. Nobody has yet claimed responsibility.There were reports of another explosion nearby soon after the first to explosions; however, they have not been officially confirmed.Three successive suicide car bombs in Baghdad, capital of Iraq killed at least 36 people, according to the Iraqi ministry. The incident occurred just before the country's election, scheduled for March 7."There were three explosions, one near the Sheraton hotel the other near the Babylon hotel. The third we are checking into," stated Baghdad security spokesman Major General Qassim al-Moussawi.The Ministry of Interior, Iraq stated that 36 people had died and 71 wounded. The three explosions occurred in rapid succession and sent smoke clouds in the sky. The first bomb exploded at 3.40 pm. Subsequently, fire engines arrived at the hotels and the police and soldiers together barred entry.The next blast occurred at the Babylon hotel, which is often used by the government for meeting. Subsequently, another car bomb blasted the Hamra hotel compound, which hosts multiple news agencies.According to witnesses, gunmen dressed in business suits had fired the checkpoint guards. During the firing, the building gate was opened. The van entered and was detonated. The explosion took place in a section where there were residential homes. The blast opened a gigantic crater, 12 feet wide and 6 feet deep only about 50 feet from the hotel. It completely destroyed the house just in the front of the building, where several bodies were discovered by rescue workers. Um Riyadh, resident of the demolished house escaped with multiple injuries. "We lost the house. We lost everything. Why should I stay in Iraq? I’m going to leave. There’s no other solution.", said the victim of the attack.Although no group claimed responsibility, Saad Mutalabi, an adviser to the Iraqi Cabinet, blamed Al Qaeda. "It is a signature of Al Qaeda. I don't think any of the political forces in Iraq would commit such an atrocity. It would not benefit any of them.", said he.The attack collided with the execution of Ali Hassan Majid, or "Chemical Ali".Earlier this month, Iraqi security forces, aided American intelligence agencies, had barred a massive attack on the city. They had seized several pounds of explosives and had brought the city to a temporary standstill.The earlier attacks were allegedly executed by Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, in alliance with Saddam Hussein’s Baath party. This has not been proved as of now.Multiple bombings have killed several people in Iraq, in the past few months. Iraqi authorities fear that such attacks may have been carried out to disrupt the forthcoming the general elections of Iraq.Police have now confirmed that a suspicious looking package left at the Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto as a hoax.According to a YouTube video titled "The fake bombing at the ROM, Toronto, 28.11.07", the package was left by a Asian man and woman. A security guard found the bomb at 6:00pm near the Queen's Park Crescent entrance. It had a note attached saying "This is not a bomb." The police used a special robot.The whole museum was evacuated and a fundraiser for the Canadian Foundation for AIDS Research (CANFAR) was cancelled. More than two thousand people paid $600 to attend the event which was postponed.The video was posted by a user named "toadmeat". On their profile it says they are 24 years old and their hometown is Reykjavík, Iceland, it also says their city as Toronto. They list their "style" as art. One person says on the comments section: "You're positively crazy. You need help ! The cops will find u ya asshole !", and another says "This guy hoaxed a bomb threat at a museum and an AIDS fundraiser had to be called off as a result. He seems to think his hoax was funny I wonder if he'd think it's funny to watch someone die from aids. I'm going to see what I can do to get this guy thrown off youtube".The first video shows two hooded people walking and putting a suspicious package in the lobby and at about 1:23 a woman is standing in front of the video waves and speaks in a foreign language, then at about 1:30 a big noise happens and the woman falls, the video turns black and people can be heard screaming. The second video is called "Fake footage of the fake bombing at the ROM, Toronto" and has a pedestrian or guest at the museum saying "There has been an explosion" with an Asian man talking, and sirens in the background.Just a few minutes ago a response video was posted telling "toadmeat" to turn himself in and that "you'll be on extensive terror watch lists". A video response posted before by a different users says "Thorarinn Ingi Jonsson made this video. Enjoy the buttsecks in prison!" and "P.S - Thorarinn Ingi Jonsson, your art sucks." Thorarinn Ingi Jonsson is one of the bomb threaters. In his videos "toadmeat" calls himself Thorarinn Ingi Jonsson and says his art videos were made at a class or classes at the Ontario College of Art and Design.The large noise was real, but there was no explosion (as it was deliberately made to sound like an explosion), the fake bomb contained a battery and three wired-wrapped simulated pipe bombs.Anyone who has information about the suspects or anything else should call police at (1) 416-808-5204, Crime Stoppers anonymously at (1) 416-222-TIPS (8477), toll free at 1-800-222-TIPS, or visit the Crime Stoppers website immediately.A vehicle packed with explosives was detonated this morning in Gao, Mali. At least fifty died.The bombing targeted a camp housing government soldiers and rebels, some of whom were in a meeting at the time. Northern Mali was seized by Islamic militants in 2012, with France leading a military intervention the following year. The camp was formed as part of a disputed ceasefire.Occasional attacks continue, and the latest is the worst in years. French Interior Minister Bruno Le Roux called the attack "highly symbolic". French President François Hollande visited the scene last week. Victims included people tasked with providing patrols, part of a United Nations-backed move to quell the violence. Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita took to Twitter today to declare three days of mourning. His government stands accused by Human Rights Watch of not taking adequate measures to protect the nation's citizens.The government says the dead include five suicide bombers. Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb claimed a single bomber from affiliate group al-Mourabitoun conducted the attack.Today, in Woolwich Crown Court, Dhiren Barot was sentenced to life imprisonment having been found guilty of conspiracy to murder. Evidence was presented that Barot had planned, among other things, to bomb prominent buildings in Britain including the Savoy Hotel, to discharge  'dirty' bombs and to destroy a tube train under the Thames with the intention of flooding the underground system.Barot was the author of a terrorist's handbook published in Birmingham in which he upheld the IRA as an example to be followed, although he thought that their methods were a bit out of date. Barot had planned to attack buildings in the United States before 9/11, but, it was thought, he had no prior knowledge of that attack.In delivering the sentence, the judge, Mr Justice Butterfield, told Barot that he must serve at least 40 years before he would be considered for release.A US Airways Express plane en route from LaGuardia Airport in New York to Louisville was diverted to Philadelphia on Thursday morning after a harmless Jewish prayer box was mistaken for an explosive device. According to Philadelphia police, a 17-year-old Orthodox Jewish boy on Flight 3079 was using tefillin, a set of black boxes attached to leather straps containing biblical passages. When used in morning prayers, one box is strapped to the left arm while the other is placed on the forehead. "It's something that the average person is not going to see very often, if ever," FBI spokesman J.J. Klaver told the Associated Press.When questioned about the object by crew members, the teen tried to explain the ritual. However, the plane's captain still thought it best to land in Philadelphia as a precaution. Once it landed, the plane was searched, passengers were questioned, and the tefillin was examined by the bomb squad and proven to be harmless. "The boy, who is from White Plains, and was traveling with his 16-year-old sister, was very cooperative," Philadelphia police Lieutenant Frank Vanore told local media. He went on to say, if anything, the two teens were "more alarmed than we were."Authorities said that because the whole incident was just a misunderstanding and neither of the teens had a criminal record, they both have since been released and cleared to continue their travels.A car containing a bomb was discovered in Times Square, New York City, causing the evacuation of streets surrounding the area. Reports say the vehicle, a Nissan Pathfinder, parked outside a theatre on 45th Street and Seventh Avenue, had smoke coming out of the back at around 6:30 p.m EDT (10:30 p.m. UTC). Unconfirmed reports say an unknown man ran away from the car. A roughly square area of the city, its boundaries formed by 43rd and 48th Street and 7th and 8th Avenue, was evacuated.The New York Police Department bomb squad was called in and were able to retrieve the package using a robot. Officials removed gunpowder, consumer-grade fireworks, two five-gallon cans of gasoline, three propane tanks, electrical wiring, and two clocks with batteries that apparently were fashioned as one or two detonators. The bomb has been described as "amateurish". No casualties or injuries were reported.As of yet police have not named a suspect and are reviewing security footage. The car used by the suspect was stolen and had a non-matching license plate; the legitimate owner of the plates does not appear to have been involved in the incident.President Barack Obama has congratulated the speediness with which the New York Police Department responded.New York has been in a state of constant alert since the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001. In September 2009, a plot to attack the New York Subway with suicide bombers was uncovered by police. In December 2009, Times Square was evacuated due to a illegally parked van, although it contained no explosives. On March 6, 2008, a small bomb was set off in front of the United States armed forces recruiting station in Times Square.Public transport in Brisbane came to a halt following an anonymous tip-off to police over an alleged bomb on the city's mass-transit network. Trains, buses and railway stations were evacuated by authorities without elaboration on the threat. They have not yet found any evidence to support the claim.Passengers were moved at least 100m away from buses and train stations, and all luggage was removed. All inbound and outbound services from Southbank, Roma Street, Central and Fortitude Valley stations had been affected, but now most services have resumed, albeit with delays.Police received a "general threat" about Brisbane-bound train and bus services from an unidentified source, leading to services being suspended from 11.45am (AEST) on Monday, a police spokeswoman said.The scare takes place against the background of the Australian Federal Government's introduction of harsh new anti-terrorism laws. Queensland Premier Peter Beattie is due to make an announcement shortly.A bomb scare caused an evacuation of Dublin Airport on Tuesday afternoon. The scare reportedly was caused by a man who walked into the arrivals area claiming he was carrying a bomb. The man was later apprehended by the Gardaí. The airport main building was closed for passengers for two hours, but flights were continuing to land.Australian media have reported that a passenger on board a plane from China to Australia discovered a note warning that a bomb would explode on the China Southern Airlines flight from Guangzhou to Sydney. The note was apparently found one hour into the journey, AAP reports.The note forced the pilot to take emergency action and return to Guangzhou. Australian passenger Jason Harper said: "They dumped all the fuel. Then all the lights went out. But no-one knew what was happening. Then we landed and there about 20 police cars and fire engines and stuff everywhere."Authorities have confirmed Flight CZ325 from Guangzhou in China was turned around about 40 minutes  into the flight. China Southern Airlines refused to release full details, but said a note was found, which "did reflect something of a dangerous item on board the plane ... adequate to cause the tech crew to turn around and return to Guangzhou," reports The Sunday Times.National Nine News said passengers were forced to leave the plane and were interviewed by authorities for two hours. No bomb was found. Passengers were later allowed back on board and resumed their journey.Sydney Airport said the plane was now due to land at 3 pm (Australian time) today. It was not known this morning how many people were on board the plane. A spokesperson for China Southern Airlines would only say it was "fairly full".Chinese state media say police have detained an Australian for threatening to blow up the flight, Xinhua news agency said. Police detained an Australian man, originally from Hong Kong, and said he had made the threat over a failed love affair.Xinhua did not say if the man had been charged.Wikinews has learned that Argentine media reported on May 27 that an Air France flight traveling from Ezeiza Airport in Buenos Aires, Argentina to Paris, France, was delayed after the airline reportedly received a bomb threat, just days before Air France Flight 447 crashed into the Atlantic Ocean.According to momento24, on May 27, authorities boarded Air France Flight 415, a Boeing 777 en route to Paris and searched the plane for a bomb, but found nothing. They were acting on a threat that had been phoned in. The search lasted for nearly two hours and none of the passengers were evacuated from the aircraft. Air France issued a statement saying the threat was later proven to be "false" and that the plane had only taken 32 minutes to search, and was then allowed to proceed to its destination."We have no signs so far," that the cause of the crash is related to terrorism, said Herve Morin, France's minister of defense in an address on Europe 1 Radio. He also added that "we can’t rule out a terrorist act since terrorism is the main threat to Western democracies." Argentinian police say that there is no known link between the two events.Air France Flight 447 was an Airbus A330 en route from Rio de Janerio to Paris on June 1, with 228 people on board, when it vanished from radar screens after entering an area with severe turbulence. The exact cause is still under investigation.On June 2, wreckage from the plane was spotted in the Atlantic Ocean 650 kilometres from the coast of Brazil. An airplane seat and life vest were found floating in Atlantic waters on Tuesday. A French ship arrived at the area on the same day, and confirmed the debris.All on board the aircraft are feared to have been killed in the crash. The main goal for search crews will be to find the cockpit voice and data recorder to help find out what caused the crash. French authorities have sent a vessel carrying two mini-submarines to attempt recovery of the flight data recorders, which can broadcast locator signals for up to 30 days.  However, the Brazilian defence minister said on Tuesday that it may be hard to find them due to the depth of the ocean in the area, saying that "it could be at a depth of 2,000 or 3,000 metres [6,500 to 9,800 feet] in that area of the ocean."A Yakovlev Yak-42 passenger plane flying the route from Moscow to Grozny was forced to make an emergency diversion to Volgograd due to an anonymous call about a bomb threat.The aircraft departed Moscow at about 4:14 PM local time, laden with 73 passengers. RIA Novosti reports that a spokesman from the Russian Federal Air Transport Agency said that several minutes into the flight the crew received a call which stated the plane experience detonation at any minute. Based on this information the crew decided to divert to VolgogradAirport officials have declined to comment on the situation and as of the last report disposal experts were searching the plane for bombs.Police in Hollywood, Florida, United States are investigating a strange bank robbery involving a bomb-like device being attached to a bank teller.Law enforcement sources said the bomb-like device was comprised of cylinders taped together with wires.The bank teller said that yesterday three armed men came into his house in Dania Beach, Florida and strapped the fake bomb to him. The armed men ordered the man to rob the Wachovia bank in which the man works.Hollywood police spokesman Tony Rode said the men questioned the teller about the bank's procedures hours before the robbery.One of the armed men made the teller and his girlfriend drive to the bank at gunpoint. The teller entered the bank and removed over US$25,000. Once the armed man received the money, he drove away, leaving the teller and his girlfriend at the bank.Video footage from CNN showed two police officers removing the device that had been strapped to the teller. A robot was then used to detonate and destroy the device.Rode said police questioned the teller for hours, but said "There are a lot of holes, a lot of loose ends that we're not quite sure with..."Is this legit? Was this all a hoax? Is he truly a victim?" Police are looking for the suspects based on some vague descriptions.A bomb exploded outside a hotel in downtown Nairobi in Kenya killing two people and injuring more than 30 others at around 9 a.m. local time. The cause of the blast is not yet clear.Police Commissioner Mohamed Hussein Ali told reporters the explosion was due to something that someone had carried in. When asked if it was the work of a suicide bomber, he refused to speculate, saying "that type of speculation is not factual at all".Initial inquiries have found that a man arrived by taxi and headed for a small restaurant, when he was stopped by a guard, as he was wearing something which looked suspicious. Police who spoke to the media anonymously, said the explosion occurred shortly after. They were not certain if the man had anything to do with the explosion.Witnesses to the explosion claim a man left a black bag near a shoe shiner just before the blast. Robert Maritim told the Associated Press that a "black bag was left on the ground".Scores of people have died in Iraq Tuesday due to multiple bombings in various major Iraqi cities. United Press International put the death toll at 69, although the figure given by the BBC is lower. Their reports state that the toll was over 50.One of the explosions occurred outside of a restaurant in Baquba. It resulted in over 40 fatalities and 70 injuries.There was another incident in a restaurant, this time in the city of Ramadi. It resulted in a minimum of thirteen deaths and thirteen injuries.Three also died from a car bomb in Baghdad.A person who witnessed one of the bombings commented on the situation. "I saw cars on fire, burned bodies and damaged shops with shattered glass everywhere," he said.Twin bombings yesterday struck the Jolo Cathedral in Mindanao, Philippines. The second blast affected first responders following the first; between the two blasts, at least 20 were killed.According to Chief Superintendent Graciano Mijares of the police of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, the confirmed deaths are fourteen civilians, five Armed Forces personnel, and one member of the Coast Guard. This revised downwards an earlier toll of 27 dead. Mijares further claimed 90 civilians were wounded, as were seventeen from the Armed Forces, and two each from the Coast Guard and the National Police. Some victims were airlifted to nearby Zamboanga."We will use the full force of the law to bring to justice the perpetrators behind this incident," said Delfin Lorenzana, the Defence Secretary; he described the attacks as a "dastardly act" and urged vigilant locals to assist authorities and "deny terrorism any victory". The first bomb went off within the Roman Catholic cathedral; the second in its car park. Lorenzana said he had ordered 'heightened alert' from troops, and that the army protect places of worship.The Philippines is a Catholic majority nation. This week saw a referendum seeking to create a new autonomous, self-administered region in Muslim-majority Mindanao, potentially ending decades of conflict with the Moro Islamic Liberation Front. Of the 2.8 million who voted, 85% were in favour and on Friday the government announced the new region, to be called Bangsamoro, would be governing itself from 2022. Jolo, and the Sulu region it is within, were among the areas to vote against the measure. Bangsamoro is nevertheless to include them within it.Arnel dela Vega of the army's Western Mindanao Command said the Abu Sayyaf Group are the suspected perpetrators. The first bomb went off during Mass; video footage from the scene shows wooden pews broken and scattered within the building. Regional Governor Mujiv Hataman agreed, saying only this organisation appeared capable of the double bombing. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, which is linked to the Abu Sayyaf Group, subsequently claimed responsibility.The Coast Guard said their casualties were attending mass. The deceased seaman was identified as Jaypee Galicha by a Coast Guard spokesperson. The Coast Guard has announced an order by Coast Guard Commandant Admiral Elson Hermogino directing Coast Guard units nearby to "join personnel from the [army and police] in the investigation and pursuit of the perpetrators."Statements of condemnation have come from Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) head Yousef Al-Othaimeen, Pope Francis, and a spokesperson for President Rodrigo Duterte. The OIC is the largest group representing nations with mainly Muslim populations.A book has been written based around leaked political emails sourcing from leader of the New Zealand National party, Doctor Don Brash. The book has been titled The Hollow Men: A Study in the Politics of Deception and it's by author, Nicky Hager, an activist for left-wing causes.The release of the book was supposed to be today, however the release of the book has been prohibited by the High Court because of an injunction, issued last week, banning the publication of the leaked emails. The injunction applies to anyone as the plantiifs are in the names of "Jane Doe and John Doe".The topics in the book cover a lot ranging from policies and matters to do with the party. The book also includes Dr Brash's relationship with the exclusive brethren. The books also shows that people within the party, who had denied links with the exclusive brethern, had in fact had links with them. Those people include Dr Brash, John Key the spokesman for finance and Stephen Joyce the campaign manager. The contents page has been revealed, it showed that the book includes political strategies behind the Orewa speech, the input into Nationals campaign from neo-conservatives in America, industry lobby group influences, doners to National and also the election spending strategy that was thought up by Australian advisers.He also said it looked at a range of possible breaches of election finance laws and parliamentary spending rules.Mr Hager confirmed that the book doesn't just use emails but also interviews with people inside the National Party who are unhappy. Mr Hager said that the book uses emails from Dr Brash that are non-personal and the book does not include anything about Dr Brash's private life. He said that well-placed sources from within National had provided him with the emails. Mr Hager said: "[The emails did not come] from hacking into the parliamentary server or gaining access to Don Brash's computer system or something like that".In response to the book National has begun to attack Mr Hager's credibility. Gerry Brownlee, deputy leader, has labbled Mr Hager as a well known intriguist. "Helen Clark roundly ditched him over his Corngate allegations a few years ago and it would be interesting to know what she would make of his latest claims."Dr Brash said that it is not expected that their communications with the public would be made public.The New Zealand Labour party is claiming that this book will be the "death knell" for National. Michael Cullen, deputy prime minister (PM), said: "The claims about Brash's and John Key's dealings with the Exclusive Brethren are very damaging. The trouble for the National Party is the book may knock out both of them in one go and the party will have to look beyond Key as leader."Current affairs show which is broadcast on TV3, Campbell Live, has filed legal precedings in the high court to allow the publication of the book. Carol Hirshfeld, producer, said: "[Our] lawyers are arguing the court didn't take sufficient account of the public interest and that constitutes an unreasonable restriction on freedom of expression. Another key point in the application is that Brash knew for some time that the emails were in the public domain, but delayed acting until now." On today's show host of Campbell Live, John Campbell, said that he and some of his bosses had read the book.The injunction stops the publish and broadcast, which includes the internet, of the emails. It is also prohibited to reveal what the emails contain or giving the emails to another person except the High Court where they are supposed to be given.The United States Border Patrol has announced that a Border agent, Brian Terry aged 40, was shot and killed in Southern Arizona near the border with Mexico on Tuesday night after a shoot out with suspected bandits who were targeting illegal immigrants. Reports state that at least four suspects are in custody with one suspect still at large. Terry was killed at around 11:00 p.m. local time (PST) Tuesday night near Rio Rico.Border Patrol spokesman Eric Cantu told the Associated Press that the FBI is probing the agent's death and had few details at the time. Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Protection also released a statement saying, "Our thoughts and prayers are with the Terry family for their tragic loss. Our commitment to Agent Terry and his family is that we will do everything possible to bring to justice those responsible for this despicable act."Further details are not available at this time. U.S. flags across Arizona will be flown at half-staff in honor of Terry.Yesterday in Dortmund, Germany prior to the UEFA Champions League's quarter-final match against AS Monaco, explosives detonated near a bus carrying  Borussia Dortmund (BVB)'s team, injuring defender Marc Bartra. The match was "postponed until Wednesday at 18:45 CET", read UEFA's official statement. Spanish centre back Marc Bartra broke his radial bone of his right hand, and underwent an operation later at night, BVB reported. Goalkeeper Roman Bürki, who was next to Bartra in the bus told Blick that Bartra "was hit by fragments of the broken rear window" ((de))German language: ‍von Splittern der zerborstenen Rückscheibe getroffen wurde.Dortmund's police chief Gregor Lange said the explosions were reported at 19:15 CET. He said, "At 19:15 CET, there were three explosions in the vicinity of the hotel in which the BVB team had been guests and were leaving to travel to the stadium." ((de))German language: ‍Um 19.15 Uhr ist es zu drei Explosionen im Umfeld des Hotels gekommen, in dem die Mannschaft des BVB gastiert und von dort den Weg zum Stadion angetreten hat. He said it was a "targeted attack on the BVB Team Bus".  Police checked for further explosives using sniffer dogs. Gregor Lange said they discovered another explosive which did not detonate. They also found a letter claiming the responsibility of the attack, but the officials did not reveal its details.Benedikt Höwedes, captain of Schalke 04, Dortmund's local rivals, tweeted, "Separated by color, united against violence! Best regards @MarcBarta and the whole team of @BVB [Borussia Dortmund], I hope you are all well! #BVBASM" ((de))German language: ‍Getrennt in den Farben, vereint gegen Gewalt! Alles Gute, @MarcBartra und dem gesamten Team des @BVB! Ich hoffe, es geht euch gut! #BVBASM. AS Monaco supporters in the stadium yesterday were heard chanting "Dortmund! Dortmund!" after the accident was announced. Dortmund asked their supporters to help away fans  by providing them accommodation for a day by using #bedsforawayfans (beds for away fans) hashtag via social media. Dortmund announced stadium tours for Wednesday were canceled, via their official website. Increasing the security after the attack, Dortmund announced storage facilities at Signal Iduna Park would be closed and no backpacks bigger than A4 size would be permitted in the stadium.A court in Bosnia has jailed the nation's first female war crimes convict. Rasema Handanović, 39, admitted six killings in the village of Trusina in 1993.Only one other woman has been convicted of crimes relating to the 1992-5 conflict in Bosnia, Bosnian Serb ex-president Biljana Plavšić. Plavšić was jailed for eleven years by an international court in The Hague, Netherlands in 2003 and later released.Judge Jasmina Kosović noted mitigating conditions for Handanović: She had expressed remorse for the victims, she had co-operated and given testimony for use against others in the attack, she was a war rape victim, and she had lost family in the fighting. Handanović received a five-and-one-half-years prison sentence yesterday.Kosović noted the convict "participated with other members of her unit in the executions of three civilians and three soldiers".Handanović, now a United States citizen whom Bosnia extradited, was part of a firing squad. The Trusina incident ultimately left eighteen civlians and four prisoners of war dead. She provided evidence against six other members of Zulfikar, a special unit within the Bosnian and Herzegovinan Army. Handanović had earlier struck a plea bargain.A former Bosnian Serb leader convicted of war crimes has been sent to the United Kingdom to serve out the remaining years of his sentence. Momcilo Krajišnik is one of the highest-ranking officials convicted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY).Krajišnik held important positions in the run up to and during the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which raged from 1992–95.  He sat on the nationalist Serbian Democratic Party's Main Board, was in the National Security Council and was the head of the Bosnian Serb Assembly. He used these positions to try and purge non-Serbs from occupied territories.He received a 27-year sentence in 2006 but this was reduced after an appeals court quashed convictions for murder, extermination and persecution. He remains convicted of genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity, and persecution, charges totaling eleven offences.The Boston Globe has been criticised for jeopardising the safety of a confidential FBI informant last week. The story written by Shelley Murphy and Maria Cramer appeared on the front page of The Boston Globe and has quickly stirred up a storm of criticism.The informant led the FBI to James 'Whitey' Bulger, a former mob boss in the Boston area, who is accused of committing 19 murders in South Boston. The informant was rewarded US$2 million dollars for their efforts in reporting the whereabouts of Bulger and was also promised complete anonymity.It is legal for The Boston Globe to release the informant's details under the US Constitution, but it does raise ethical issues for the journalists involved. What they write could potentially put the informant in harm's way and also tarnish the FBI's reputation.Former federal prosecutor Michael Kendall told Joe Dwinell of the Boston Herald that it might be the publication's “constitutional right — but it doesn’t mean you should.”It is feared that this case will scare people off from assisting law enforcement with confidential tips on the whereabouts of criminals. This could have major ramifications for the FBI's work on terrorism and organized crime cases.In The Huffington Post, Rebecca Shapiro outlined how dangerous it is to release the details of a confidential informant. "Releasing her identity could not only put the tipster in danger, but could also dissuade future people from providing information to the FBI for other cases", she said.The Boston Globe has released a statement clarifying that they felt it was necessary to publish the full details of the story and that doing so would not put the informant in any danger. Peter Schworm wrote in The Boston Globe, "Editors who oversaw the Globe story said they deliberated at length over whether to print her name, but were ultimately convinced that doing so posed no danger." The Boston Globe is standing staunchly behind the two journalists who wrote the story, Murphy and Cramer, with a number of defenses, the most prominent of which was that identifying the informant "served a vital public interest".A bouncer at the Irish Pub in Atlantic City, New Jersey was stabbed to death Saturday morning while trying to break up a fight.Luis Martinez, 25, of Newark, was arrested on two charges of aggravated assault for the brawl that left 27-year-old Richard Rivera dead.Richard Kutch, another bouncer at the bar on St. James Place, was injured and hospitalized after the fight.Martinez was committed to Atlantic City Jail in lieu of $250,000 bail, with additional charges pending.The fight occurred around 4:30 a.m. Authorities believe the two bouncers were trying to break up a fight involving Martinez, but they are still trying to determine what sparked the brawl and have declined to released further details.Media reports said Rivera was well known and well liked by patrons at the Irish Pub, which has been open since 1972.A fifteen-year-old boy has been arrested in Walthamstow, London, England after Ezekiel Amosu, 17, was run over by a bus Monday night. Metropolitan Police detectives said that Amosu may have been "involved in an altercation with a group of teenagers immediately beforehand".Amosu was walking with four friends when they were approached by a group of youths, who asked for Amosu's mobile phone. It is unclear as to whether Amousu was attempting to escape, or was pushed under the bus during the fight. The officer in charge of the investigation, Detective Chief Inspector John Sandlin, stated that "[w]hat happened exactly is unclear at this stage but we believe that he may have been the victim of an attempted robbery minutes beforehand".The number 123 bus was traveling west towards Blackhorse Road station when the impact happened, at the intersection of Forest Road and Pembar Avenue, resulting in Amosu receiving fatal crush injuries. Amosu was declared dead at the scene, which was attended by homicide detectives after reports of a fight in the street before the incident.Anyone with information is requested to contact the police incident room on +44 (0) 20 8345 3865, or anonymously via Crimestoppers.Six-year-old Christopher Michael Barrios, Jr. has been missing since Thursday night. He was last seen near his home in the Canal Mobile Home Park just north of Brunswick, Georgia. He is a hispanic/black male, 3'06" - 4'00", and 60-70 lbs. He has short black hair and brown eyes, and was last seen wearing a blue or green long sleeve shirt with a white T-shirt underneath and long black pants. He also was wearing white tennis shoes with a blue stripe on the side with a velcro closure on top.Police say neighbors spotted a white car driving slowly in the area, but they are not sure if the car has anything to do with Christopher's disappearance.If you know anything about this you are asked to call the Glynn County police at 912-554-7803 or First Coast Crime Stoppers at 1-866-845-TIPS (1-866-845-8477). There is a $27,000 reward for the return of the missing boy.Five deployments of the taser and the physical struggle with the four Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers contributed substantially to the death of Robert Dziekanski is the chief finding of the inquiry led by retired British Columbia Appeal Court Justice Thomas R. Braidwood.Speaking at a June 18 media conference following the release of the report on the second phase of the inquiry into the events at Vancouver International Airport on October 14, 2007  Mr. Braidwood concluded "that the constable was not justified in deploying the weapon, and that neither that constable nor the corporal honestly perceived that Mr. Dziekanski was intending to attack any of the officers. I also concluded that the two other constables, during their testimony before me, offered patently unbelievable after-the-fact rationalizations of their police notes and their statements to the [RCMP Integrated Homicide Investigation Team] investigators.”RCMP Commissioner William J.S. Elliott responded to Mr.Braidwood's report in a press release saying "The RCMP acknowledges that its handling of this incident failed at many levels and we agree that events that took place at the Vancouver International Airport on October 14, 2007, should have unfolded differently. It is clear that our policies and training in place at the time were deficient. We acknowledge that the actions of our members who dealt with Mr. Dziekanski also fell short, including the fact that our officers did not take enough time to try to de-escalate the situation and did not provide an appropriate level of care to Mr. Dziekanski."The mandate of the Braidwood commissions of inquiry, launched by the government of British Columbia (BC) in February 2008, included reporting on and making recommendations about the appropriate use of conducted energy weapons. Sworn evidence was received from 91 witnesses over 61 days. The second phase was "to provide the Dziekanski family and the public with a complete record of the circumstances of Mr. Robert Dziekanski’s death and to make recommendations the Commissioner considers necessary and appropriate" as per the commission's web site.The government of BC has already moved to "severely [restrict] the use of Tasers by all police, sheriff’s and corrections officers, and developing standardized police training for Taser use, crisis intervention, and responding to emotionally disturbed people" according to a June 18, 2010  press release. The province also plans to create "a new civilian-led unit to investigate all independent municipal police- and RCMP-related deaths and serious incidents" within the next 12 months.Mr. Braidwood criticised the Canada Border Services Agency whose changes in response to the incident were "minor and few" but had high praise for Vancouver International Airport's "exceptional steps in the aftermath of Mr. Dziekanski’s death to identify inadequacies in its policies, practices, and procedures, and to remedy them."The largest telecom company in Brazil, BrasilTelecom, has blocked its users from accessing YouTube following a court order to shut down the popular video sharing website.BrasilTelecom did not issue an official statement regarding YouTube, but its customers are complaining that all access to the website is blocked.A ban on YouTube was ordered by Brazilian courts after celebrity Daniela Cicarelli sued the website for hosting unauthorized videos of her having sex on the beach. YouTube removed the videos, as is standard for videos it receives legal complaints about, but was unable to stop other users from uploading copies since it does not screen videos before they are uploaded.Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva on Friday announced a R$ 6.86 billion (about $3.6 billion) investment to bring running water, roads, improved housing, sewage and other services to the so-called favelas, or metropolitan slum areas in 13 states of his country. According to the President, it is the first time a project aimed at the "biggest degradation focuses" becomes part of the Brazilian political culture. The federal government would contribute 5.9 billion Reais (3.14 billion USD), the rest would come from local governments. The total program would involve 504 billion Reais (268 billion USD).Last January, the second government of President Lula announced the Program for the Acceleration of Growth (PAC in the portuguese acronym). "This phase of the PAC has three aspects: environmental, public health, with the decrease of illnesses, and income, improving the incomes of the population of those cities," explained the President's Chief of Cabinet, Dilma Rousseff. The project is also aimed at weakening the grip of drug traffickers and other criminal organizations on life in the slums. "If the state doesn't fulfill its role and does not provide (adequate) conditions for the people, drug traffickers and organized crime will. So we want to compete with organized crime, and we are sure that we will beat it when we manage to bring benefits to the poorest places," President Lula da Silva said last month in São Bernardo do Campo, just days after 19 were killed in clashes between police and criminals in a slum.Last month, the state security chief of Rio de Janeiro said that the shantytowns were "at the mercy of a parallel state, where criminals dictate their will," pledging to conduct more police raids to counter this trend. In a speech in Rio de Janeiro in July, the President acknowledged the difficulties fighting the organized crime: "We have to confront (gangs) knowing that many times they are better prepared than the police, with more modern guns than the police."In Rio de Janeiro alone, 20% of the city's population, or 1.5 million inhabitants, are estimated to live in one of the 752 favelas.The Brazilian football referee Edílson Pereira de Carvalho was detained by the Brazilian Federal Police on Saturday in Jacareí, a city 78 kilometers from São Paulo. According to the Public Prosecution Service, he refereed games in a partial manner so that only predetermined teams could win.The businessman Nagib Fayad was also detained in São Paulo. Both are suspected of being part of a group suspected of manipulating games in order to profit through million dollar bets on sport bettings websites.Brazilian prosecutor Roberto Porto said that investigators have 20 thousand hours of taped phone conversations back to October 2004 and that they have no doubt that Carvalho was fraudulently refereeing football games.According to the spokeman of the Federal Police, Victor Hugo Rodrigues Alves, a referee would be contacted by phone by Fayad who would inform the referee which team should win the game. Fayad would then place the bets on Internet websites. Part of the profit would be given to the referee. Rodrigues claimed that additional people were involved.On Saturday the referee told Federal Police that he favored various football teams while he administered games during the Liberators of the Americas Cup, Paulista Championship, and the Brazilian championship.A professional football player from Brazil and a former police investigator are among seven people arrested in connection with a murder police called "barbaric". Flamengo goalkeeper, and captain, Bruno Fernandes is accused of hiring former policeman Marcos Aparecido dos Santos to kill his mistress.Police say Fernandes met Eliza Samudio, 25, at a party organised by another Flamengo player last year, and spent the night with the former model and pornstar, impregnating her.  Her refusal to abort the pregnancy is cited as the motive behind the killing.  Samudio has been missing since June 4th.  Police state she contacted them earlier to complain of violence and threats from Fernandes.  He is alleged to have attacked her and tried to force her to swallow an abortion pill in a complaint filed in October.  He supposedly told her, "[y]ou don't know me and you don't know what I am capable of – I'm from the favela."Police allege that Samudio was abducted from a hotel in Rio de Janerio and driven for six hours to reach a house belonging to Santos near Belo Horizonte. There, according to newspaper Estado de Sao Paulo, one of Fernandes's cousins, allegedly involved, said loud music was played to cover up the screams as "barbaric tortures" were inflicted upon her by Santos.It is alleged when she exclaimed she could no longer bear being beaten the ex-policeman responded "[y]ou are not going to bear it any more. You are going to die." Souza is said to have been present and witnessed both her torture and her strangulation. Although she remains missing, police state that they are confident she is dead and claim her remains were disposed of by being fed to at least one rottweiler. Remaining parts are said to be encased in concrete.The child, a boy, had already been born and is now four months old. Police say his mother was killed when she began attempts to prove the footballer, who was rumoured to have received an offer worth millions of dollars from AC Milan, was his father. Homicide investigator Edson Moreira is running the probe and was in no doubt of the footballing "idol"'s guilt: "[he is] a monster for what he did to this young lady."The investigation has been a major focus for Brazilian media. The nation has an upcoming presidential election and candidates were quick to express their views. Dilma Rousseff, who present president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva wishes to succeed him, said "[t]his is a barbaric crime. The whole of Brazil is disgusted by such a barbaric and perverse crime." Rainforest campaigner Marina Silva, another candidate, expressed concern that "[w]e have repeatedly seen this kind of episode against the lives of women."Fernandes denied any involvement, claiming a "clear conscience". He has commented that he is concerned the investigation may hamper his prospects of representing Brazil at the 2014 World Cup. Currently in a jail cell, he was requested to provide DNA samples but exercised his constitutional right to refuse. His wife is also alleged to have been involved and is jailed as well. Santos has said, via his lawyer, that he too is uninvolved in any crimes.Documents, reportedly leaked from the investigation into the death of Jean Charles de Menezes, the Brazilian electrician shot dead by British Police on the London Underground on 22 July reveal that Mr de Menezes was not acting suspiciously and was already restrained when shot. Furthermore, the documents reveal that the original report given by the police and recorded on the coroners report contained many false statements. The reports suggest the police shot Jean Charles de Menezes because they mistakenly identified him as Hussain Osman, and had agreed to shoot him if he ran. Hussain Osman was suspected of having placed a faulty or mock explosive in a train.The original reports claimed that de Menezes was acting suspiciously, was wearing a padded jacket, and ran when challenged, even vaulting the ticket barriers. However, the leaked documents, which include statements from officers involved in the operation and photographs of the scene, show that he behaved like any other commuter, used his travel pass to enter the station, even picking up a newspaper on his way. He was not challenged by police, and appears to have been unaware of being followed until after he entered the train. Photographic stills show he was only wearing a light denim jacket. It appears that he only ran in order to reach a train that was about to leave the platform. The leaked document describes CCTV footage, which shows Mr de Menezes entered Stockwell station at a "normal walking pace" and descended slowly on an escalator.The document said: "At some point near the bottom he is seen to run across the concourse and enter the carriage before sitting in an available seat."An eye witness, who was sitting opposite de Menezes on the train, is quoted as saying: "Within a few seconds I saw a man coming into the double doors to my left. He was pointing a small black handgun towards a person sitting opposite me. He pointed the gun at the right hand side of the man's head. The gun was within 12 inches of the man's head when the first shot was fired."This report is considerably different to initial reports that claimed de Menezes tripped as he fled onto the train, before being restrained by pursuing officers and shot. Photographs leaked to ITN appear to corroborate this new witness's report as they clearly show blood on the seat in which de Menezes is said to have been sitting.Other statements suggest that the Brazilian was seated before being pinned down by a plain-clothed police officer. Plainclothed armed officers had entered the carriage at this point. Several shots were then fired and de Menezes was hit seven times in the head and once in the shoulder. Three further shots missed Mr Menezes.A community officer's report (one of the leaked documents) confirms that Mr. de Menezes was seated and restrained at the time of being shot:"I heard shouting which included the word ‘police’ and turned to face the male in the denim jacket."He immediately stood up and advanced towards me and the CO19 [the armed unit] officers …I grabbed the male in the denim jacket by wrapping both my arms around his torso, pinning his arms to his side."I then pushed him back onto the seat where he had been previously sitting … I then heard a gun shot very close to my left ear and was dragged away onto the floor of the carriage."The leaked documents confirm that Police had been given permission to shoot if a suspect was non-compliant, having been told that "unusual tactics" may be required and if they "were deployed to intercept a subject and there was an opportunity to challenge, but if the subject was non compliant, a critical shot may be taken." It is thought that when he ran for the train officers felt this was suitable evidence of "non-compliance".The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) said its priority was to keep Mr de Menezes family informed and refused to comment on the details of the leak.The commission said the family "will clearly be distressed that they have received information on television concerning his death".In an interview with the Guardian Newspaper, Asad Rehman, spokesman for the family's campaign, called for a public inquiry. "This was not an accident," he said. "It was serious neglect. Clearly, there was a failure both in police intelligence and on an operational level."Harriet Wistrich, the family's solicitor expressed concerns, during an interview with ITN, that the Police had withheld information from the investigation for a longer period than was permitted under UK law. Ms. Wistrich also claimed, in a separate interview with the BBC, that the documents suggest that the original information given to the pathologist who carried out the post-mortem examination on Mr de Menezes was incorrect and that the information the leaked documents contained was "shocking and terrifying". "What sort of society are we living in where we can execute suspects?" she asked in the BBC interview. An unnamed senior police source told the Guardian that the leaked documents and statements give an accurate picture of what was known so far about the shooting. Former Flying Squad commander John O'Connor told the BBC "had the normal procedures taken place in which a warning is given and officers wear specially marked clothing then this young man may not have been killed."The IPCC statement added: "The IPCC made it clear that we would not speculate or release partial information about the investigation, and that others should not do so. That remains the case." Mark Oaten, Home Affairs Spokesman for the Liberal Democrats, said: "If true, these preliminary findings will create obvious concerns. It is in the best interests of the police and the community for the full report and any recommendations, to be published as quickly as possible."PRAIA GRANDE, Brazil — Miss Marina Souza, aged 43, was kidnapped last Saturday, November 6, in Praia Grande, São Paulo, during a barbecue with her relatives. She is the mother of Robson de Souza, known as Robinho (Little Robin), a Brazilian soccer player for the Santos Football Club. Since the incident, Robson De Souza ('Robinho') has made few public appearances and stopped playing soccer, troubling his team Santos.  "I hope this all finishes well and that I can go back to playing football again," he was quoted by Reuters on November 9.Robinho is considered one of the best Brazilian forward players at the present time and he is an important player for Santos.The authorities are cautious to release any information concerning the case, as this could jeopardize both the investigations and Ms. Souza's life.The death of Brazilian-born Jean Charles de Menezes in London on the 21st of July at the hands of British police, who mistook him for a terrorist, is being called an "assassination" by the mayor of Gonzaga, Brazil. "It's easy for Blair to apologize, but it doesn't mean very much," said Mayor Julio de Souza, referring to Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Ian Blair's description of the incident as a "tragedy". "What happened to English justice and England, a place where police patrol unarmed?"Brazil's Foreign Minister, Celso Amorin, came to London and said president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva asked him "to take firm measures to defend the interests of the family of a Brazilian who died in an absurd manner."Brazilian protesters called for the arrest of the policemen who shot Menezes, and are also demanding the immediate return of the victim's body, as traditionally in Brazil bodies are buried within 24 hours of death. According to witnesses, police pursued the fleeing Menezes into a subway station and held him to the ground before shooting him. London was on heightened alert after the 7th of July's deadly bombings.Malaysian police yesterday reported an attempted break-in at the morgue where the body of Kim Jong Nam was being held. Kim, the half-brother of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, was killed on February 13 in Kuala Lumpur International Airport in what authorities are treating as a murder case. The police have increased security at the morgue."We knew there were attempts by someone to break into the hospital mortuary. We had to take precautions. We will not allow anyone to tamper with the mortuary," Inspector-General of Police Khalid Abu Bakar told the Malay Mail. He went on to say that the officers investigating the break-in knew who had done it but declined to share that information with the Mail: "We know who they are.  No need to tell you," Khalid said.Malaysian police official Noor Rashid Ibrahim announced on Sunday authorities were cooperating with Interpol in the search for four other North Korean nationals suspected of involvement in Kim's death.  According to Ibrahim, the four left Malaysia the day Kim Jong Nam was killed. Yesterday, Chief Khalid said two other people, an Air Koryo employee named Kim Uk Il and a North Korean embassy employee named Hyon Kwang Song have "been called in for assistance."Ibrahim cautioned listeners against assuming Kim Jong Nam's death was necessarily ordered by his half-brother's government: "the four hold North Korean nationality, that is all."Four suspects have already been detained: Ri Jong Chol, a North Korean; Siti Aishah, an Indonesian; Muhammad Farid Bin Jalaluddin, a Malaysian; and Doan Thi Huong, who was carrying a Vietnamese passport.  According to CCTV footage, two women, ostensibly Aishah and Doan, approached Kim Jong Nam in Kuala Lumpur International Airport.  One of them distracted him while the other administered a fast-acting poison.  Kim fell ill and died before he could reach a hospital.  One was wearing an "LOL" t-shirt at the time.  Aishah told police she thought she had been hired to play a prank for a television show, but Chief Khalid disputed this, saying the two had been trained for their mission and told to wash their hands after handling the liquid.Kim Jong Nam had once been his father Kim Jong Il's heir apparent but fell out of favor and has been living in Macau with his family.The Indonesian consulate requested access to Aishah but was refused.  According to Malaysian law, no one may speak to the suspects while the investigation is ongoing.  The North Korean government has called for the release of Ri Jong Chol and issued a statement saying the two women are also "innocent" and should be released as well. The North Korean ambassador to Malaysia has questioned both the identity of the dead man and the reliability of the Malaysian investigation. Malaysia recalled its ambassador from North Korean on Monday amid increasing tensions between the two countries.Inspector-General Khalid continued to refer to the deceased as "Kim Chol," one of two names on passports he had with him.  Malaysian authorities have refused to release Kim's body to North Korea without a DNA sample from a family member.  Khalid has promised police protection for any relative coming to Malaysia to do so.Former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney testified Thursday before an ethics committee in the Canadian House of Commons about the Airbus affair, a case involving alleged bribery at the highest levels of government to secure Airbus sales of aircraft to Air Canada.In his testimony, Mulroney said that he should not have associated with German businessman Karlheinz Schreiber nor should have he accepted bundles of cash — which he placed in safe deposit boxes in two different countries.Nonetheless, Mulroney denied accepting kickbacks. He admitted taking about CAD225,000 in cash from Schreiber in 1993 and 1994, which was after his departure from politics. He also said that the money involved promoting Schreiber's private business dealings.To the committee Muroney said: "When I look back on it today, I realize I made a serious error of judgment in receiving a payment in cash for this assignment even though it was decidedly not illegal to do so. That mistake in judgment was mine alone. I apologize and I accept full responsibility for it. ... I should have declined the offer. I should have insisted that payment be in a more transparent or more accountable manner. By not doing so I inadvertently created an impression of impropriety on the high office I was privileged to hold.""Do you realize, Mr. Mulroney, that the way in which you acted in this matter did not make it appear that it were a legitimate transaction," said MP Serge Ménard of Bloc Québécois.Two days earlier, Schreiber testified before the same committee, alleging that Mulroney agreed to accept CAD300,000 to promote a light armored vehicle factory and benefited from the purchase of 34 Airbus aircraft by Air Canada."I never received a cent from anyone for services rendered to anyone in connection with the purchase by Air Canada from Airbus of 34 aircraft," Mulroney said, refuting Schreiber.Mulroney also attacked Schreiber's credibility, pointing out that the German could be extradited to his home country where he faces charges. "He succeeded. He got what he wanted ... he’s sitting in his mansion over in Rockcliffe," Mulroney said. "I think he seriously misled every member of this House ... with this false affidavit."The committee's investigation will resume in late January, when it is expected to call dozens of witnesses.There was a bomb alert in Oxford Circus in central London at 1.20pm BST (1220 UTC) today. All streets around Oxford Circus were briefly cordoned off and pedestrians asked to move down side streets.A similar event occurred that same day at approximately 4.15pm BST (1315 UTC) on Wilton Road, when an unoccupied car was spotted on double yellow lines outside a pub near Victoria Station.At the Brisbane Magistrates Court, a 19-year-old man from Brisbane, Australia was granted bail on Saturday after being charged with raping a 15-year-old girl late last week.Magistrate John Costello granted the defendant bail on condition he report to the police station three times weekly, stay at home at his current address at night unless his work required otherwise, and contact neither complainant nor witness.At the hearing, there was a question of whether the defendant knew the victim's age. Patrick Quinn, the defendant's lawyer, claimed she showed the defendant fake identification showing she was over 18, and only told him her real age the next day. Sergeant Scott Pearson, Police prosecutor, said the defendant's texts to friends indicated he was aware she was underage, and said one person advised he "get rid of the evidence". The court was told the girl maintained she had been honest about her age from the beginning and had not shown any false identification.Consent was also questioned. Quinn argued all the sexual activity was consensual. The defendant admitted to oral and vaginal sex, but not sodomy.The two had met Thursday night at the Royal George Hotel in Fortitude Valley before heading to his home around 3:00 local time. The man was charged with four counts of rape, as well as one count of unlawful sodomy of a person under 18 and three counts of indecent treatment of a child under 16.The defendant is to be tested for disease.  The Court is to resume the case on July 4, 2016.Queensland, Australia police have charged a 57-year-old woman with the alleged contamination of the salad bar at two Sizzler restaurants.Rat poison pellets were found in food at Sizzler restaurants at Toowong on January 20 and the Brisbane Myer Centre outlet last Sunday. Yesterday Sizzler closed salad bars nationwide, but they did not report the incidents to the Queensland Health Department until last Monday.  Queensland’s Health Minister Stephen Robertson criticised the restaurant chain for delaying reporting a possible incident of food contamination for 37 days. "I think this is a case that - a real life case - that we should perhaps learn some lessons from,” he said.Queensland Police Inspector Bob Hytch said the woman is the same woman police asked to come forward after she told Sizzler staff she had found pellets in soup at the Myer Centre restaurant last Saturday. The woman is expected to face Brisbane Magistrates' Court tomorrow charged with two counts of contamination of goods and four counts of an act intending to cause grievous bodily harm.On Tuesday, two officers of cotton farming conglomerate Norman Farming in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia appeared in the Brisbane Magistrates Court for alleged fraud of the government. Queensland Police alleged over the past seven years the farmers submitted fraudulent claims to receive funding from Queensland's Department of Natural Resources, resulting in an approximately AUD20 million dishonest personal financial gain. The Court laid charges and released the defendants on bail. According to the results of the investigation by Police, the two men allegedly falsified documents, including invoices, misrepresenting work from contractors as earthwork supposedly in aid of improving water irrigation efficiency. The two allegedly presented farming-related work on their property on six projects as aimed at improving the efficiency of water irrigation at their property near Goondiwindi.Police arrested the chief executive officer (CEO) of the conglomerate, 43-year-old John Norman, and the conglomerate's chief financial officer, 53-year-old Stephen Evans. They appeared in Court represented by their lawyers. In the Court they were charged, Norman with six and Evans with four counts of aggravated fraud, Norman with six and Evans with four counts of fraudulently producing or using a false record. Police opposed bail, however the Magistrate released the two on bail conditionally, requiring they surrender their passports.According to reports by Australian Broadcasting Corporation and The Guardian, neighbours of Norman Farming had complained to the authorities about Norman Farming's work resulting in excessive removal of floodwater from the McIntyre river, leading to reduced availability of water for the farmers downstream. Queensland's Department of Natural Resources, Mines and Energy provided the funding as a part of its Healthy Head Waters scheme. Detective Inspector Mick Dowie said the Department did not have the authority of police to compel provision of documents, leading to difficulty with verifying the invoices which the two submitted in their application.Dowie said the investigation took over a year to complete, including analysis of accounting reports.Police in the British city of Bristol have surrounded a house near the city of Bristol, after a man refused to allow the police into the house.This move comes after Avon and Somerset police received reports regarding a domestic incident in the House.Local residents have reported that the police suspect was carrying an air rifle. The suspect has not yet been named.The police siege is still underway, with the suspect on Fairview Road continuing to barricade himself into his house.Police originally visited  the property at 13:15 local time (12:15 UTC) Today. The police have reported that this happened after “receiving reports of a disturbance.”The police also described the attendance of armed police at the scene. They said that this move was only taken as a precaution.Kingswood, the town where the incident took place, has a population of 62,679. It can be found  near the  A420 road that leads out of Bristol.Two elderly women whose CCTV pictures were shown in newspapers across the UK on Thursday after they were caught on camera stealing a bag at a railway station in Sunderland have turned themselves in.The police has announced that women admitted the offence and have received an official caution in a case variously dubbed the "Grey Train Robbery" and "Gran Larceny."The women contacted police services after the case received major newspaper and media coverage under headlines such as "Nans on the Run" and "Artful Codgers."A security camera image released by police showed two grey-haired women, in their 60s or 70s, wearing knee-length skirts, white blouses and overcoats at Sunderland station.Police had appealed for help in finding the women after a student's bag was stolen from a station platform."They handed themselves in," police announced in  a statement. "They subsequently were interviewed and admitted the offence. Both received police cautions."United Kingdom's most senior traffic police officer faces charges of speeding at 90 mph in a 60 mph speed limit zone (the equivalent of speeding at 144 km/h in a 96 km/h zone). The Chief Constable of the South Yorkshire Police, Meredydd Hughes was allegedly caught speeding on the A5 road near Chirk in north Wales.Hughes was caught by a camera that takes photographs of speeding cars. He is known as one of the main advocates for nationwide installation of such cameras.Hughes is set to appear at Wrexham Magistrates Court on November 21, 2007. He faces a £1000 fine and a driving ban if convicted.As the head of road policing within the Association of Chief Police Officers, Hughes can be considered the top traffic cop in the UK.A British boy has been ordered to be detained for life for the rape of his teacher. He was just twelve years old when he attacked the teacher in County Durham last November.The Crown Court heard that the boy had attacked the female teacher after a one-to-one session, and then drove the teacher's car away from the scene before abandoning it thirty miles away.The boy, who also suffers from learning difficulties, admitted to the rape in court.The defence told the court how the boy had been the victim of sexual abuse since he was very young. At just three and a half, concerns had been raised over his 'sexualised' behaviour. By four, he had been encouraged to experiment with alcohol and cigarettes. But judge Mr Justice Grigson told the boy: "Despite your very young age, it is quite clear that you knew what you were doing." The judge told the boy that he must serve at least 21 months of his sentence but will most likely be behind bars for much longer. He will also be on Britain's Sex Offender Register for all of his life.The agencies which should have protected the boy in his early life have launched an enquiry into their failings.Two British soldiers were killed in Afghanistan on Wednesday, with one being the highest ranking British officer to be killed in 30 years.Lieutenant Colonel Rupert Thorneloe, 40, Commanding Officer of the 1st Battalion Welsh Guards, and Trooper Joshua Hammond, 18, of the 2nd Royal Tank Regiment, were killed when an improvised explosive device was detonated under their Viking armoured vehicle. They had been traveling along the Shamalan Canal, near Lashkar Gah in Helmand Province, on their way to resupply an offensive underway currently against the Taliban.General Sir Richard Dannatt, the UK Chief of the General Staff, said Thornloe was "an outstanding commanding officer." In a Ministry of Defence (MoD) statement, Dannatt said, "[Thornloe's] courageous, thoughtful stewardship of 1st Battalion Welsh Guards since October last year has seen them superbly prepared for the demands of Afghanistan, both in terms of their professional capability and their unbreakable spirit as a team."Trooper Hammond, Danntt said in the MoD statement, "was a first class tank crewman who epitomised the spirited and determined approach to operations expected of Royal Armoured Corps soldiers."Lieutenant Colonel Thorneloe is survived by his wife, Sally, and daughters Hannah and Sophie. Trooper Hammond leaves behind his family, friends, and fiancée.Three British Army soldiers are to be court martialled for alleged war crimes in Iraq, United Kingdom Attorney General, Lord Goldsmith, announced yesterday in the House of Lords.They are among eleven British soldiers charged with the ill treatment of two Iraqi civilians in separate incidents in September 2003. Seven, including the three accused of war crimes, have been charged with incidents that took place in September 2003. Four have been charged with the manslaughter of Ahmed Kareem in May 2003. They are alleged to have forced Mr Kareem — who was detained as a suspected looter — into the Shatt-al-Arab canal in Basra, where he subsequently drowned. The three — Corporal Donald Payne, 34; Lance-Corporal Wayne Crowcroft, 21; and Private Darren Fallon, 22 — have been charged under the International Criminal Court Act 2001, and will be tried domestically, along with the other eight, rather than by the International Criminal Court at The Hague.They are from the 1st Battalion, Queen's Lancashire Regiment (QLR). The regiment has been at the centre of previous accusations of abuse in Iraq. The Daily Mirror published in May 2004 photographs purporting to be of soldiers of the QLR abusing Iraqi prisoners. The photographs were later proven to have been fabricated, and the newspaper's editor, Piers Morgan, resigned.Unknown individuals gained access to a server of University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit (CRU). As a result, around thirteen years of email correspondence between researchers is now available worldwide. Substantial previously unpublished climate change observations are included.According to initial reports by TGIF Newspaper and the Watt's Up With That blog, hundreds of emails and documents were made available from a FTP site on a Russian server with an accompanying statement:"We feel that climate science is, in the current situation, too important to be kept under wraps. We hereby release a random selection of correspondence, code, and documents"Some journalists suppose that this event is a consequence of increased attention on CRU after it played a substantial role in the IPCC fourth assessment report (2007).The released data is a 62 megabyte zip file, containing around 160 megabytes of emails, pdfs and other documents.  Some of the contents have been confirmed as genuine by the head of the University of East Anglia’s Climate Research Unit, Dr Phillip Jones. In an interview with TGIF Newspaper, he stated that a breach of security had taken place and that a large quantity of files had been "stolen". The interviewer discussed one of Dr. Jones' published e-mails: Once Tim’s got a diagram here we’ll send that either later today or first thing tomorrow. I’ve just completed Mike’s Nature trick of adding in the real temps to each series for the last 20 years (ie from 1981 onwards) amd [sic] from 1961 for Keith’s to hide the decline. Mike’s series got the annual land and marine values... – From: Phil Jones, 16 Nov 1999, To: ray bradley ,mann@[snipped], mhughes@[snipped]The interviewer asked Dr. Jones to explain the phrase "hide and decline", but he answered that he had no idea what he meant by using them (as they were made in the context of a discussion taking place 10 years ago), and he had not attempt to mislead: No, that’s completely wrong. In the sense that they’re talking about two different things here. They’re talking about the instrumental data which is unaltered – but they’re talking about proxy data going further back in time, a thousand years, and it’s just about how you add on the last few years, because when you get proxy data you sample things like tree rings and ice cores, and they don’t always have the last few years. So one way is to add on the instrumental data for the last few years. – Dr. Jones, TGIF newspaper ("Investigate magazine") interviewIn a press release by the University of East Anglia, Dr. Jones stated that:"That the world is warming is based on a range of sources: not only temperature records but other indicators such as sea level rise, glacier retreat and less Arctic sea ice."Our global temperature series tallies with those of other, completely independent, groups of scientists working for NASA and the National Climate Data Center in the United States, among others. Even if you were to ignore our findings, theirs show the same results. The facts speak for themselves; there is no need for anyone to manipulate them."[...]My colleagues and I accept that some of the published emails do not read well. I regret any upset or confusion caused as a result. Some were clearly written in the heat of the moment, others use colloquialisms frequently used between close colleagues."One such colloquialism, "trick," is frequently used by scientists and engineers to refer to an essential or non-obvious element in the solution of a problem, as opposed to the common political usage connoting deception.Commentators argue that the published messages show the researchers' reluctance to publish scientific material, though it contains serious global warming observations. Some of the correspondence portrays the scientists as feeling under siege by skeptics’ and worried that any stray comment or data glitch could be turned against them.The East Anglia University has shut down the original server, from which the information was stolen. A university spokesman stated that data was published without permission, but did not confirm whether all of the published communication is genuine: We are aware that information from a server used for research information in one area of the university has been made available on public websites.Because of the volume of this information we cannot currently confirm that all of this material is genuine.This information has been obtained and published without our permission and we took immediate action to remove the server in question from operation.We are undertaking a thorough internal investigation and we have involved the police in this enquiry. – University of East Anglia spokesmanThe release of the documents comes just weeks before a major climate-change summit in Copenhagen, Denmark, meant to lay the groundwork for a new global treaty to curb greenhouse-gas emissions and fight climate change.With photographers and media gathering for an appearance by Paris Hilton, who is sentenced to serve jail time, the fashion industry has joined the 'free or jail Paris Hilton debate.' British company Mio Destino designed a line of prison-striped lingerie embroidered with the words 'Free Paris' in support of Hilton. A 'Jail Paris' embroidery was later added to the lingerie following intense demand.The 45 day jail sentence is scheduled to begin on Tuesday at the Century Regional Detention Center in suburban Lynwood, Los Angeles County after Hilton was convicted of driving recklessly for traveling at a speed of 70 miles per hour in a 35 miles per hour zone with no headlights after dark in February this year. The offense occurred while her driver's license was suspended after a driving under the influence conviction last November.Hilton added her signature to an online petition, Free Paris Hilton, hosted by iPetitions, that appealed to California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger for a pardon. The petition states that Hilton "didn't hurt or kill anyone, and she has learned her lesson. She is sincere, apologetic, and full of regret for her actions as she explained tearfully to the Judge handling her case in court yesterday. She is distraught and understandably afraid." The petition has garnered over 30,000 signatures.A counter petition, again hosted by iPetitions, calling for Hilton's imprisonment received 87,715 signatures as of Sunday.With good behavior while serving time, Hilton may be able to get out of jail in 23 days.British conductor Sir Edward Downes and his wife Joan took their lives at a Swiss assisted suicide clinic on Friday, July 10, 2009, according to a statement from their family. Lady Downes, 74, was afflicted with terminal cancer, and Sir Edward, 85, was nearly blind with increasing hearing difficulties. These disabilities had forced him to give up conducting. Having no religious beliefs, the couple decided against holding a funeral.The statement read, "After 54 happy years together, they decided to end their own lives rather than continue to struggle with serious health problems. They died peacefully, and under circumstances of their own choosing, with the help of the Swiss organisation, Dignitas, in Zurich."Many who knew the couple as friends said that Sir Edward was not terminally ill, but wanted to die with his wife, who he had been with for more than 50 years.Sir Edward Downes's children, in an interview with The London Evening Standard, said they escorted their parents to Zurich, and on that Friday, they watched in tears as their parents consumed "a small quantity of clear liquid," and then proceeded to lie down together, holding hands."Within a couple of minutes they were asleep, and died within 10 minutes," said their 41 year old son, Caractacus Downes. Sir Edward was well respected in the operatic and orchestral worlds and was particularly noted for his performances of British and Russian music and of Verdi, conducting 25 of the composer's 28 operas. He had a long association with the Royal Opera House, where he conducted for more than 50 seasons in succession. This did not stop him from refusing to conduct a series of performances of Verdi's Nabucco there as he was "out of sympathy" with the adventurous production. His approach to conducting was similarly conservative.  He wrote "The duty of a conductor should be to present... a faithful and accurate account of the composer's music as he wrote it, disregarding any subsequent 'interpretations', 'meanings', or political agendas that may have been attached to it by others."It was on Friday, 28 September, 1973, that Sir Edward conducted the opening public performance at the Sydney Opera House, a staging of Prokofiev's War and Peace by Opera Australia, of which he was musical director. Downes also served as chief conductor of the Netherlands Radio Orchestra and principal conductor of the BBC Philharmonic.The family reported that Lady Downes "started her career as a ballet dancer and subsequently worked as a choreographer and TV producer, before dedicating the last years of her life to working as our father's personal assistant." The Metropolitan Police have announced that Greenwich CID are investigating the circumstances of the couple's deaths. Assisting a suicide is illegal in the United Kingdom.Over 100 people who wished to die have made the journey from Britain to Switzerland to take advantage of the clinical services that Dignitas offers. British police have investigated many of the resulting deaths, but no family member has yet been prosecuted for helping relatives negotiate with Dignitas and travel to Switzerland. Debbie Purdy, a woman with multiple sclerosis, attempted last year to obtain a ruling from the English High Court that family members would not be prosecuted for helping someone use the service, and in particular that her husband would not be charged should she decide to use Dignitas in future. The court refused as it believed that such clarification is the responsibility of parliament and not the judiciary.Last week the House of Lords rejected a proposal by former Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer to allow people to help someone with a terminal illness travel to a country where assisted suicide is legal.A police constable serving with the Metropolitan Police Service in London, England may be prosecuted for manslaughter over the death of a bystander at a protest that occurred  during the G-20 summit earlier this year.After concluding what it says is its largest ever investigation, the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) has sent its file on the death of Ian Tomlinson to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS). Ian Tomlinson died on April 1, 2009 from injuries sustained when he was allegedly struck and pushed to the ground by a police officer. The CPS will now consider if enough evidence exists and if it is in the public interest to bring a prosecution for manslaughter. Tomlinson was an innocent bystander caught in the police cordon at the G-20 Meltdown protest near the Bank of England. Initially it was claimed by the police that Tomlinson had had no contact with the police, that he had collapsed most probably because of stress and exhaustion, and that protesters had attacked police officers trying to give him first aid. The first of two postmortems concluded that Tomlinson had died of a heart attack.Following the publication of the postmortem, an American tourist handed over film footage of the moments leading up to Ian Tomlinson's death to The Guardian newspaper. This footage showed a police constable of the Territorial Support Group striking Tomlinson across the legs with his baton before pushing him to the ground. The Guardian story prompted other news organisations including Channel 4 to review their own recordings of the protest. The retrieved footage from a number of sources and the testimony of witnesses produced evidence that contradicted the veracity of all aspects of the police version of events.Subsequent to these  revelations a second postmortem was held, this second postmortem concluding that internal injuries sustained as a result of his fall were the most likely cause of Tomlinson's death.A request was made by the police service for the police constable filmed to make himself known, an individual came forward and was questioned under caution. He remains suspended from duty.British police announced yesterday they believe they have arrested most of the confederates of suicide bomber Salman Abedi, who attacked an Ariana Grande concert in Manchester this Monday, killing 22 and injuring 116, of whom 23 were still in critical condition.  As of this morning, eleven people were being held for questioning.  One woman and one teenage boy were questioned and released. Assistant Commissioner Mark Rowley, Britain's counterterrorism chief, reassured the public yesterday."Enjoy yourselves and be reassured by the greater policing presence you will see," said Rowley. "We can't let the terrorists win by dissuading us from going about our normal business." However, the official threat level of critical, indicating another attack may be imminent, is still in place this weekend.  Officers equipped with firearms, which are not as common in the United Kingdom as in the United States, patrol some streets and beaches.Police and other experts said they believe Abedi, 22, could not have built such a sophisticated bomb by himself and must have had accomplices.  The nuts and bolts inside it had been arranged with care to cause maximum damage, as if the person who made it had some experience."I think he saw children, Muslim children, dying everywhere," Abedi's sister Jomana told reporters concerning her brother's motives. "He saw the explosives America drops on children in Syria, and he wanted revenge. Whether he got that is between him and God." According to CNN, a friend of the Abedi family said Abedi wanted revenge for the gang killing of a friend.Several members of the Muslim community in Manchester, including the imam of his local mosque, had contacted authorities about Abedi, who had been expressing extremist and violent views for some time.Abedi was born and raised in Manchester to parents who fled Gaddafi-era Libya.  His father returned there after the 2011 regime change and Abedi and his mother and brother joined him later.  Abedi reportedly returned to the United Kingdom shortly before the bombing."[T]here has been enormous progress with the investigation, but still an awful lot of work to do" Manchester police chief constable Ian Hopkins told the press. He also said the rate of hate crimes in his jurisdiction had nearly doubled this week, from 28 daily to 56.Judges in England's High Court of Justice have said that the United States threatened to withdraw anti-terrorism intelligence cooperation if they revealed part of a Guantanamo Bay detainee's case.However, UK Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs David Miliband denied the threat had occurred, telling the House of Commons that it was usual practice for intelligence material to remain controlled by the country that collected it. He reaffirmed that the British government did not want the material released because doing so would "cause real and significant damage to the national security and international relations of this country".Binyam Mohamed, a British resident but not a citizen, was arrested by U.S. forces in Pakistan in 2002. From there, he claims, he was moved to other locations where he was tortured on behalf of U.S. operatives (a process known as "extraordinary rendition") with the knowledge of UK intelligence agencies before being sent to the detention centre at Guantanamo Bay. The U.S. said he had planned a "dirty bomb" terrorist attack, but, after holding him for 4 years under the threat of the death penalty, dropped the charges.Mohamed says that any evidence against him was based on what he said under torture and asked the High Court to force the government to reveal any documentation they held that would prove this. The judges have agreed, but have not published the material. Following the Foreign Secretary's statement to parliament, Mohamed's lawyers have written to the court to ask the judges to now publish. They say that, since Milliband has denied that the United States made the threat, the judges' decision to withhold it no longer applied.Mohamed claims to have spent 550 days being tortured for information in Morocco. He says his genitals were repeatedly cut with a razor blade to make him confess. The court case in London is part of his bid to force the UK government to release evidence it holds that he claims shows the U.S. was directly involved in the torture. A British official was also present when he was tortured, he claims.The court case and the British government's reaction to it comes at a time when British politicians are adjusting to a new relationship with their American counterparts. The UK was a solid supporter of former President George W. Bush's "war on terror", but the British government now faces building a relationship with the new U.S. administration which was elected with plans for a different approach to the subject. The British government has repeatedly denied that it was involved in "extraordinary rendition" and evidence otherwise would be politically damaging.Lawyers acting for a stroke victim in Britain have been given approval by the High Court in London to prepare a case asking for judicial review of the guidance on prosecution for assisted suicide released in 2009 by Keir Starmer, the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP). The claimant seeking judicial review—known only as 'Martin'—is a man in his mid forties with locked-in syndrome and can only communicate by eye movements. He believes his life to be "undignified and intolerable", and he is completely dependent on his wife and full-time carers.The court granted Martin's lawyers the right to gather information from third parties including Dignitas in order to prepare the case without risking prosecution. Lawyers acting on Martin's behalf also claim that this will allow doctors to advise Martin on assisted dying. Rosa Curling, a lawyer with the firm representing Martin, Leigh Day & Co, said: "We can instruct doctors to advise him on his options regarding his wish to die and also take steps to identify an individual who might be willing to assist him in taking his life." While relatives are unlikely to be prosecuted for assisting suicide under current guidelines, Martin has none willing to assist his.Lord Justice Toulson, one of the two judges who heard the application, said that the case "raises thorny legal and ethical issues". The judicial review is brought on the basis that the DPP failed to consider patients in situations like that of the claimant in drafting the advice. Martin hopes that the case could lead to the DPP modifying the guidance on prosecution.Catherine Mullany, a newly married British woman, and her husband, Ben Mullany, have been shot while on honeymoon in Antigua. Catherine died on the scene, while Ben is in a critical condition in Hospital.The families of the Mullanys have described themselves as "deeply shocked and devastated."The incident occurred at 05:00 Antigua time (09:00 GMT) on Tuesday, and it is being treated by police as a robbery. A police spokesperson described the incident. "Shortly after 5am this morning officers from the Bolans Police station responding to a call, arrived at Cocos Hotel and Restaurant in the Valley Church area, the scene of a murder." UK police have been asked to help in the inquiry.Catherine Mullany was a doctor, who, before her death, planned to become a GP. Ben was a physiotherapy student at the University of the West of England (UWE), which is located in Bristol, England. Mary Price, the Media Relations and Internal Communications Manager for UWE, gave Wikinews the following statement:Timothy Brady has admitted to a charge of driving at 172 mph (276.8 kmph) on a British A road.  The 33-year-old was caught driving his Porsche 911 on the A420 during a routine speed check by Thames Valley Police near Oxford. Mr Brady admitted the charge at the hearing taking place at Oxford Crown Court. Mr Brady was clocked by police on a bridge and was later arrested four miles down the road after police used a car to block the road.The speed is thought to be the highest ever recorded on a British road and is 100 mph over the legal limit of 70 mph.  Campaigners from Brake, a road safety charity, told the BBC that the offence was "shocking". He is likely to receive a jail term and be disqualified from driving.  The previous record was set by Jason McAllister, a car dealer from Aberdeen who was clocked doing 156.7 mph in his BMW M3.Prime Minister Tony Blair launched a new crime-fighting agency to deal with "brutal and sophisticated" crimes by organised gangs. The agency's mandate and powers have been compared to that of the United States' FBI.The Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA), has approximately 4,200 "law enforcement officers", some of whom are ex-spies, and will use their £400m  annual budget to fight counterfeiting, fraud, drug and people-trafficking.The agency was created out of the National Crime Squad, the National Criminal Intelligence Service and investigative staff from the Immigration Service. SOCA is chaired by ex-MI5 chief Sir Stephen Lander.A mob of 20 men have killed a leading British gemologist in the town of Voi in Kenya. Campbell Bridges who was born in Scotland was killed at his 600-acre property located within a national park. The attack is reported to be linked to a 3 year dispute over control of the gemstone mines owned by Mr. Bridges. Police reported that Bridges was driving his pick-up around his land when he was ambushed by 20 men wielding homemade clubs and spears as well as bows and arrows. Bridges fought off the mob with the help of his son and four Kenyan staff. He was transported to hospital but later died. No one else was seriously injured in the attack. Bruce Bridges, Campbell’s son spoke to reporters about his ordeal. He spoke of how he fled to the capital Nairobi with his father’s body. “As we drove towards our mining camp we found huge thorn trees blocking the road. Eight men with machetes, spears, clubs, knives, bows and arrows appeared, shouting, ‘We’re going to kill you all!’ Then more people came down the mountain like ants — 20 or 30 of them” he said. Campbell was renowned in the gemstone business. He worked as a special consultant for jewelers Tiffany & Co. He is also credited with the discovery of tsavorite and also involved in the discovery of tanzanite.The British Conservative-Liberal Democratic coalition government has scrapped plans by the previous government to change the rules on equal pay between men and women.The previous Labour government included a provision in the Equality Act 2010—Section 78—to allow the government the option to introduce regulations that would require companies to publish details of the difference in pay between male and female employees. If the government had activated such regulations, they would have come into force in 2013. The current government have decided not to activate this requirement and instead will only ask businesses to provide this data voluntarily and will set an "aspiration" to dramatically increase the number of women in senior positions in business.Lynne Featherstone, the Liberal Democrat MP and coalition Equalities Minister, in announcing the plans stated that the government wishes "to move away from the arrogant notion that government knows best, to one where government empowers individuals, businesses and communities to make change happen."Featherstone announced the policy at the School of Management at Cranfield University, who have conducted research finding that only 12.5% of directors of FTSE 100 companies are women, up from 12.2% last year—"glacially slow" progress according to business commentator David Prosser.Featherstone justified not implementing the pay audits due to the economic costs: "Right at this moment of financial peril to the nation is perhaps not the moment to introduce mandatory pay audits."This breaks with a Liberal Democrat manifesto commitment, as well as contradicting Featherstone's own words two years ago in support of the audit: "A voluntary audit system for private industry is hardly worth the paper it's printed on. We need to know when the government actually plans to step in if progress isn't made."Women's groups and trade unions have condemned this move. Dave Prentis, the general secretary of UNISON, Britain's second largest trade union, said that this is an example of the government "stripping down its commitment to equality".Prentis continued: "It is a disgrace that women are still getting paid less than men. This move threatens to turn the clock back on all the progress already made with equal pay."Ceri Goddard, the chief executive of the feminist campaigning group the Fawcett Society, condemned the plans: "The persistent gap in pay between men and women is one of the starkest examples of inequality in the UK today. The government's decision not to bring into force section 78 is a huge disappointment and means this injustice will continue for a long time to come. The government has today consigned another generation of women to lower pay. Their proposal to rely only on voluntary business action on pay isn't just naive, it sends a dangerous signal that tackling discrimination against women is a choice, not a requirement."Yvette Cooper, Featherstone's shadow minister on the Labour benches, called the news "another broken promise from the government" and said that "scrapping Labour's plan to increase transparency in pay is a backwards step for women's equality."The new British coalition government has warned local authorities in the United Kingdom not to provide tax breaks to branches of the Church of Scientology. After an investigation by The Guardian newspaper revealed that several local authorities have granted Scientology tax breaks worth over a million pounds, Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government Eric Pickles intervened to urge councils to end the practice. Pickles noted in a statement that Scientology was not officially recognised in the UK as a religion or a registered charity and was not eligible for tax relief. Pickles commented, "I do not believe the majority of the public would want their own council to be giving special tax breaks to such a controversial organisation." The minister's intervention followed the disclosure by The Guardian that at least four local authorities have given Scientology lucrative tax discounts on branches in their areas. These included:The City of London Corporation, which gave an 80% tax exemption worth £1.3 million to the flagship Scientology centre in the City of London. The corporation justified the exemption on the basis that Scientology could be considered to be a charity either for the advancement of religion "or other purposes beneficial to the community". It said that it feared being sued by the organisation if it discontinued the exemption.Westminster City Council granted 80% rates relief to the Scientology Celebrity Centre in the Bayswater district of London. This saved Scientology £165,303 over the past ten years, though as of July 2010 the centre is no longer in use. The council determined that Scientology was a "non-registered charity" that is "beneficial to the community".Birmingham City Council awarded the Church of Scientology Religious Education College an 80% tax discount on the grounds that the property was an educational institution.The City of Sunderland gave the Church of Scientology's branch in the city tax relief worth £30,000 over five years.Camden London Borough Council refused to disclose whether and how much tax relief had been granted to the Scientology branch in the London Borough of Camden. Other local authorities, including Manchester City Council and Mid Sussex District Council, said that they charged Scientology the full commercial rate.In response to The Guardian report, Eric Pickles issued a statement saying that Scientology should not receive privileged tax status and did not deserve to do so, "Tolerance and freedom of expression are important British values, but this does not mean that the likes of Church of Scientology deserve favoured tax treatment over and above other business premises. The Church of Scientology is not a registered charity, since the Charity Commission has ruled that it does not provide a public benefit. Nor are its premises a recognised place of worship. Councils may award charitable relief. They should take into consideration the Charity Commission's rulings when weighing up whether to do so. I do not believe the majority of the public would want their own council to be giving special tax breaks to such a controversial organisation."The controversy was the latest in a series of disputes involving Scientology's tax status in the UK. Scientology is not officially recognised as a religion. The Charity Commission for England and Wales rejected an application in 1999 by Scientology for charitable status, ruling that its activities did not meet the "public benefit" test. However, in 2000 Scientology obtained exemption from Value Added Tax (VAT) on the grounds that its services were educational and non-profitable. It successfully sued HM Revenue and Customs for the return of £8 million in overpaid VAT.A spokesman for the Church of Scientology told The Guardian, "Scientology is very popular with those who have visited our churches, met with Scientologists and observed or utilised our numerous community activities that effectively address drug abuse, illiteracy, declining moral values, human rights violations, criminality and more. Local council authorities, government bodies in this country and many others, and the European court of human rights have all recognised the religious nature of Scientology or the fact that Scientologists are actively helping those in their communities as a direct reflection of their religious beliefs."Birmingham City Council told the local Sunday Mercury newspaper, "We have noted Mr Pickles' comments and will take them on board."Beleaguered British computer hacker Gary McKinnon has vowed to fight U.S. extradition proceedings through the European Court of Human Rights. This follows on from yesterday's rejection of an appeal to the U.K's Law Lords.American prosecutors who have pursued the case against McKinnon are offering a stark choice for the ex-systems analyst who allegedly broke into 97 US military and NASA computer systems. Some reports describe his UFO-related hacking efforts as, "the biggest military hack in history"; his lawyers have used alarmist language to describe the attitude of American prosecutors pursing him on six indictments, "American officials involved in this case have stated that they want to see him 'fry'. The consequences he faces if extradited are both disproportionate and intolerable." The plea-bargain offer on the table would see McKinnon face four years in jail if he accepts two of the charges. Estimates on how long a sentence he may face if he refuses this and is successfully prosecuted on all six charges go as high as 70 years. For the 1966 Glasgow-born man this is an effective life sentence.With terrorism being bandied about as a motivation, and allegations that McKinnon deleted files and disrupted the operation of systems he is alleged to have broken into, an additional concern from his lawyers is that under such circumstances he could be detained at the Guantanamo Bay facility. McKinnon describes himself as a "bumbling hacker" who believed he was working in the public interest to expose a U.S. coverup of files and other information on UFOs.A small team from Britain's Scotland Yard has arrived in the Pakistani capital to help with a government investigation into last week's assassination of opposition leader Benazir Bhutto. VOA's Nancy-Amelia Collins in Islamabad has more. Pakistani officials say the Scotland Yard team will lend forensic and technical expertise to the investigation, which is being carried out by the government as controversy swirls around the death of Ms. Bhutto.Supporters of Ms. Bhutto, along with her family and her political party, the Pakistan People's Party, say the former prime minister was shot and killed by a gunman while leaving a political rally in her car.Television footage shows a man firing three shots at the back of Ms. Bhutto's head. She slumps down into the car, and then a suicide bomb goes off. Her aides say they saw a bullet wound in her head after the attack.But the government says she was killed when she ducked the blast of the suicide bomb that followed the gunshots, cracking her skull on the sunroof of her car.President Pervez Musharraf denied Thursday that a security lapse on the government's part was to blame for the assassination. He blamed Ms. Bhutto for standing in the open and waving to her supporters when she knew there was a danger of an attack."Who is to blame for the coming out of the vehicle and standing outside? Who is to blame? The law enforcement agencies?" he asked. "The others were sitting inside and they were secure."The government says al-Qaida is responsible for Ms. Bhutto's assassination. Her supporters say the government is at least partially responsible, by failing to provide adequate security, while others believe elements within the government carried out the assassination.Pervez Musharraf says that partly because of the controversy, he decided to bring in Scotland Yard investigators."Here is a situation where a leader of her stature has got assassinated and the whole country is in turmoil and it has reverberations all over the world," he said. "Therefore I thought, here is a situation where maybe we need to go beyond ourselves to prove to the world and to prove to our main people here…that we don't mind going to any extent, because nobody's involved on the government side or the agency side. So therefore we went for Scotland Yard."Ms. Bhutto's Pakistan People's Party is demanding a United Nations investigation into her murder, saying that will be the only way to get at the truth.The three British soldiers in the centre of an Iraqi abuse scandal have been jailed for between 140 days and two years and all three have been dismissed from the army. L/Cpl Mark Cooley, 25, Cpl Daniel Kenyon, 33, and L/Cpl Darren Larkin, 30, assaulted a number of Iraqi prisoners in Camp Bread Basket, near Basra. Gen Sir Michael Jackson said that he wanted to, "place on record how appalled and disappointed I was when I first saw those photographs at the outset of the trial", and has said he apologised "to those Iraqis who were abused" and to Iraq as whole. The men said they felt they were scapegoats as they felt they were other soldiers in the abuse and one of the men's lawyers said there was, "a significant number of other soldiers, including many senior to him, some of whom have been promoted, were involved in the mistreatment of Iraqis that day".In a separate court martial last year, the soldier who took the photos used as evidence in the trial, Gary Bartlam, admitted taking photographs of the Iraqis simulating sex acts. He was sentenced to 18 months in a youth detention centre and disgracefully discharged from the British Army.Wikinews has learned at least six of the United Kingdom's main Internet Service Providers (ISPs) have implemented monitoring and filtering mechanisms that are causing major problems for UK contributors on websites operated by the Wikimedia Foundation, in addition to 1,200 other websites. The filters appear to be applied because Wikimedia sites are hosting a Scorpions album cover which some call child pornography. Scorpions are a German hard rock band who have used several controversial album covers and are perhaps best known for the song Rock You Like a Hurricane.The measures applied redirect traffic for a significant portion of the UK's Internet population through six servers which can log and filter the content available to the end user. A serious side-effect of this is the inability of administrators on Wikimedia sites to block vandals, and other troublemakers, without potentially impacting hundreds of thousands of innocent UK contributors who work on WMF sites in good faith.The filtering is in response to the Internet Watch Foundation's list of websites that host content reported to contain inappropriate images of naked children. The IWF considers those images child pornography. However, in the United States, where the websites of the Wikimedia Foundation are hosted, it is not considered obscene under the criteria of the Miller test, which requires that an obscene work lack "serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value" - as album art is used to "brand" the album, it is considered to be artistic.Contributors or individuals attempting to view an affected image or file, depending on their ISP, may get a warning saying, "we have blocked this page because, according to the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), it contains indecent images of children or pointers to them; you could be breaking UK law if you viewed the page." Other ISPs provide blank pages, 404 errors, or other means of blocking the content. Due to a configuration mistake at one Internet service provider, some users have reported being totally unable to access Wikimedia sites to the Wikipedia technical help desk."The Protection of Children Act 1978 as amended in the Sexual Offences Act 2003, makes it an offence to take, make, permit to be taken, distribute, show, possess with intent to distribute, and advertise indecent photographs or pseudo-photographs of children under the age of eighteen. The 'making' of such images includes downloading, that is, making a copy of a child sexual abuse image on a computer, so, in the UK, accessing such content online is a serious criminal offence," says the IWF on their website in an article updated on November 28. The IWF say there are at least 800 to 1,200 websites on the list of those who host or contain offensive material. The list is not public and the IWF never notified Wikimedia Foundation about the blocking of Wikipedia content. The affected page does not display any message informing the user about blocked content on most ISPs, instead, a technical error message is shown.However, Demon Internet redirects users to a block message on the IWF's site explaining that the page was blocked as the organization suspects child porn or links to it to be present. The IWF states that, "we do not notify site owners that their websites are on our list."The concern for Wikimedia is for some images like an album cover from a 1976 record of the Scorpions titled Virgin Killer. It displays an underage girl, posing nude, with a lens crack crossing over her genitals, but nothing blocking out her breasts. The girl appears to be around ten years old. In the U.S., the band later replaced the image with one of the group. The cover was uploaded to Wikipedia in 2006, but Wikinews learned that on May 9, 2008 at  (21:17 UTC), despite a result of strong consensus to 'keep' in a deletion request, the image was deleted, however for a different reason. It was deleted due to a claim by an administrator that it violated Wikipedia's policy for dealing with copyrighted images, which require that any images used under the doctrine of fair use must alongside other criteria, "significantly increase readers' understanding of the topic, and its omission would be detrimental to that understanding", with the administrator claiming that the article "lacked meaningful discussion" of the album art. This result was overturned using the deletion review process. Earlier, on December 6, the image was put back up for a deletion request, but it was later closed as Wikimedia "does not censor".Another image that is questionable could be a screenshot from the 1938 film Child Bride. Its goal was to bring to light the attempts at banning child marriages. In the article on Wikipedia, a screenshot appears of then 12-year-old Shirley Mills partially naked after skinny dipping. In the photo, at least one of her breasts can be seen.Other albums featuring nudity below the age of sixteen have previously caused controversy; Blind Faith attracted criticism as did Houses of the Holy, and Nirvana's Nevermind.Multiple companies have gone public stating that they implement the recommendations of the Internet Watch Foundation. Not all of these are known to have implemented measures against Wikimedia sites; the major UK ISPs thought to have affected Wikimedia sites are Telefonica O2/Be Unlimited, Virgin Media, Easynet, Plusnet, Demon, and Opal Telecommunications (TalkTalk).Wikinews has contacted Wikimedia's legal counsel, Mike Godwin and the IWF for a statement, but neither have replied as of this time.Correspondent Toby Harnden and photographer Julian Simmonds of The Sunday Telegraph weekly, were put on trial for violating Zimbabwe's "Access to Information and Protection of Privacy Act".  The act requires all journalists in Zimbabwe to obtain accreditation from the state media commission. The two are also accused of breaking immigration laws by overstaying their visas.The journalists were arrested last Thursday during the election that saw victory for President Robert Mugabe's ZANU-PF.  The trial is being held in a small town 40 kilometers north of Harare, capital of Zimbabwe. Despite being granted bail, the pair are spending a fifth night behind bars in Harare. Although they face two years in jail, it is believed they will instead be fined and deported."The accused persons had no right to cover the elections because they had no accreditation and had no right to stay in the country beyond March 28," State prosecutor Albert Masama said in court statements.The prosecutor said the two flew into Harare and met unnamed members of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change. Simmonds was arrested after he was seen taking photographs of a line of voters at a polling station.Defence lawyer Beatrice Mtetwa, said the men had valid visas and believed they were in Zimbabwe legally when they were arrested. She said the two were tourists and visited such resorts as the Victoria Falls.More than 200 journalists were accredited to cover last week's elections, but many more had their applications rejected.Authorities in Iraq have charged a British man with the murder of his two colleagues from security contractor ArmorGroup. Daniel Fitzsimons is suspected of murdering fellow Briton Paul McGuigan and Australian Darren Hoare.Three men were shot in the incident yesterday, which occured in ArmorGroup's Baghdad compound. In addition to the two fatally injured, an Iraqi guard was wounded. According to a spokesman for the Iraqi interior ministry, the group was drinking when an argument began and one man opened fire on the others.Iraqi army spokesman Qassim al-Moussawi stated that "The suspect is facing a pre-meditated murder charge. The matter is now in the hands of Iraqi justice." Major General Abdul-Kareem Khalaf said "He's now in Iraqi police custody and he will be tried under Iraqi law," and pointed out that a conviction carried a possible death penalty.The men worked in the capital's diplomatic zone, which features heavy security. Fitzsimons appeared before a court today, where the prosecution informed the judge they had all the evidence required for a trial. It would mark the first trial of a Westerner since local authorities assumed responsibility for policing foreign contractors earlier this year.One witness is reported to have said, "They were all very drunk and started shouting at each other. They had a big argument and suddenly [Mr Fitzsimons] pulled out a gun and shot his two friends. An Iraqi was standing behind him and tried to take away the gun. But he turned around and shot him ... Then he ran away."Benjamin Mullany, the British man who was shot along with his wife while on holiday in Antigua has died. He and his wife, Catherine had been on the last day of their honeymoon when both were shot during what seems to be a botched robbery on July 29. Catherine died instantly while Ben fell into a coma. Doctors were unaware if he knew that his wife did not survive the attack. Ben was flown back to Britain on August 2 after a 22 hour operation to try and save his life. He died at Morriston Hospital, in Swansea, Wales where he remained unresponsive. The couple married on July 12 and later flew out to the holiday island. With the death of both Catherine and Ben the murder figures for Antigua have been placed into double figures. Prime minister Baldwin Spencer has asked for Britain's help during the investigation. The suspects are still at large.Abigail Witchalls, the 26-year-old mother of one who was stabbed on April 20, has begun communicating what happened to the police.Abigail was walking with her 21-month-old son at 4pm in a quiet country lane near London when she was attacked and stabbed once in the back of the neck, leaving her paralyzed from the neck down. She can only communicate via blinking and facial expressions.Surrey, the county in which the attack occurred, is statistically the safest in England and Wales, with the lowest incident rate of serious violent crime.Surrey Assistant Chief Constable Mark Rowley said in a press conference this morning that Abigail's condition is continuing to improve as she is treated in the hospital."I would like to start this morning with the good news that Abigail’s condition does appear to be continuing to improve. She has sustained an horrific injury, but her condition is no longer critical and she has been well enough to meet with two of our experienced detectives and communicate with them. They have been able to take a statement from her using questions that she can respond to in a positive or negative way by mouthing words or blinking."Abigail has made it clear that she wants to help the police inquiry in whatever way she can and it is her courage and determination that has allowed us to communicate with her at such an early stage after so horrific an attack. She is an incredibly brave and determined young woman."Abigail has managed to communicate a message to us that she wishes to give to you and I will start by reading this out. She says: “I am improving and everybody’s prayers are helping enormously. Thank you for all the flowers which are beautiful. If you still want to give flowers please donate insteadto the World Poverty Day through the Catholic Agency for Overseas Development or any other way. Thank you."Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper then talked about the details of the attack they had learned from Abigail."My officers spent several hours with Abigail yesterday taking the statement, together with members of her family. The amount of information that Abigail has managed to give us is extraordinary given her current condition. As I will shortly explain, she has been through an even more harrowing experience than we imagined and the strain of going through it with her at her hospital bed was a very emotional experience for both her family members and both of my detectives."The bravery and strength of Abigail is extraordinary - she is determined to help catch this man as soon as possible and insisted on being interviewed for around six hours yesterday and wants to continue again today. This is a most unusual interview process - with a very intelligent and strong young woman - communicating through blinking, mouthing and facial expressions"What Abigail has told us is very significant to this inquiry. We are now able to work on confirmed information directly from her rather than having to rely on what she said to other witnesses and the evidence of local residents. What she has said has changed the focus of the inquiry and enabled us to rule out the man with the blue Peugeot that we had previously arrested and bailed. We now believe that he was probably in the area at the time but that he was not involved in the assault on Abigail."Abigail has now been able to tell us that she first saw the man who attacked her at about 3.45pm on the afternoon of Wednesday 20 April, on the public footpath along Water Lane in Little Bookham. The man was in a blue estate car, four-door plus the rear hatch, right hand drive, older style, plain, all one colour."The man was in the blue vehicle ahead of Abigail. The vehicle drove towards and past her and they looked at each other. At that point Abigail started to feel very uneasy and put Joseph into the buggy and started to walk home along the track. When she was about three quarters of the way along the track she turned and saw that the car had pulled up some way behind at that the male was out of the car and coming towards her. She started to panic and immediately began running along the footpath with Joseph still in his buggy."Abigail reached the gate that leads onto the lane off Burnhams Road but could not open it. She the heard the man say, you have dropped your purse. She turned around and saw that the man had grabbed hold of Joseph and was holding a knife to his throat."The man indicated to Abigail to come towards him, which she did. He then grabbed her hair, pulled her down towards the ground and as he did so stabbed her once in the back of the neck with the knife. He then [pushed] the buggy, with Joseph still in it, on top of her and ran off."Abigail has said that the offender was alone and was someone she does not know. She describes him as being aged between 20 and 35 years-old, with short dark wavy or scruffy hair, between 5ft 10in, her height, and 6ft 4in tall, her husband’s height, with a long thin face and prominent cheekbones. He was wearing looped silver earrings, roughly three-quarters of an inch in diameter in both ears. She also describes quite a deep voice, a pale face and black bags under his eyes. She has also said that she believes that he was under the influence of drink or drugs. She does not know why he attacked her and he does not appear to have attempted to rob her. Her purse and mobile phone were not taken."This man is clearly an extremely dangerous offender. Anyone who is prepared to threaten a young child and try to kill his mother in front of him is clearly capable of anything. It is our duty to inform the public about the danger that this man poses and appeal to everyone for information that can help us to catch him as soon as possible."The appeal I want to make is quite precise. We could easily be overwhelmed by information that would hamper the inquiry rather than help it. What we need is very specific. Do you know a man who fits this description, who has access to a blue estate car and who could have been in the Bookham area on the afternoon of Wednesday 20 April. If you know anyone who fits this profile, if you live with him or he is your child you must come forward to us. I repeat, anyone who is prepared to act in the way that this offender has done is clearly capable of anything and is a danger to anyone who comes into contact with him, no matter who they are."Please do not approach him but contact Surrey Police on 0845 125 2222 with information or call 999 immediately if you know where he is."Assistant Chief Constable Mark Rowley ended the press conference by saying "It is hard to imagine a more compelling picture of vulnerability and innocence than a mother and toddler chased attacked and left for dead so brutally."There is no clear motive to this attack such as robbery or sexual assault, although the offender may well have been under the influence of drink or drugs. He is clearly a very dangerous man who must be caught as soon as possible. We are conducting an enormous operation, already committing over 150 officers and have gathered a wealth of material for forensic examination but need the public's help to identify the offender as soon as possible."I would reiterate the appeal that Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper has just made, to appeal to the conscience of every citizen to help us catch this brutal and dangerous man. This is a crime so horrific that I would hope that, for anyone watching this appeal, helping us identify the offender would come before any loyalty to family, friends or even criminal associates - this man must be caught."Liberal Democrat British MP John Hemming revealed in Parliament yesterday that Fred Goodwin, former chief executive of the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) Group, applied for and was granted a superinjunction to prevent the media revealing he was a banker. After the bank bailouts in 2008, Goodwin became a hate figure after it was revealed that he was going to receive a £700,000 a year pension while the RBS Group announced a £24.1bn loss.John Hemming's revealing of the superinjunction in Parliament is protected by Parliamentary privilege. The revelation of the superinjunction came as a question during 'Business of the House' hearings:In a secret hearing, Fred Goodwin has obtained a super-injunction preventing him from being identified as a banker. Will the Government hold a debate, or make a statement, on freedom of speech, and whether there is one law for the rich, such as Fred Goodwin, and another for the poor, such as Lee Gilliland who has had his mental capacity removed on the basis of a report from his GP that he is not allowed to see?Superinjunctions have become a more frequently applied and often controversial practice in British law: they allow for parties to block publication of some controversial matter and also block publication of the fact that such an injunction has been granted. They came to light dramatically when a superinjunction was granted preventing The Guardian newspaper from revealing that statements regarding an allegation against the  commodities trading company Trafigura had been made in Parliament. The superinjunction was broken when a variety of bloggers and Twitter users started pointing to foreign news outlets that had published the allegations and the order against The Guardian. Superinjunctions have also been used by the Premiership football player John Terry following allegations of an affair.In the United Kingdom, PRS for Music has announced that the total royalties that artists in the music industry receive has decreased by 1%. This is the first time that such a decline has ever occurred.The company has reported that the total was £611.2 million (US$977.8 million, €693.9 million) in 2010, a decrease of overall annual revenue of 1%, or £7 million (US$11.2 million, €7.9 million), from 2009. PRS for Music has claimed that this fall was due to lower sales of Compact Discs and DVDs, as well as digital copyright infringement.The collection society, which is a representation of seventy-five thousand writers, composers and publishers of music, gathers royalties from music being used in excess of twenty-five billion times annually by various means, including television / radio, commercial businesses, musical venues, Compact Discs and DVDs.Robert Ashcroft is the Chief Executive Officer of PRS for Music and is responsible for being the representative of such British music artists as Adele, Jessie J and Florence Welch. Speaking about this news, Ashcroft said: "The loss of high street outlets, the slowdown in physical music sales as well as the challenges capturing the full value of music usage online has meant that for the first time we have seen royalties collected dip. Previously, any reduction from falling physical sales had been offset by our strong performance in music licensing both in the UK and internationally. In 2010 slower growth at home and abroad failed to fully mitigate the decline."In 2010, the sales of music physically and digitally grew by 7% to achieve 120 million units. Meanwhile, sales of compact discs fell by 12.4% to a total of 98.5 million. British global entertainment retail chain HMV has attempted to save money by closing down sixty of its shops in the UK. In 2010, royalties' growth reduced in speed to 4.3%.Simon Neil, of Scottish rock group Biffy Clyro, explained that "[t]he thing about PRS is for a lot of bands it's the only way you make money. In our first six years of being in a band that was the only kind of income we had. It's the bread and butter for bands. It's almost your only guaranteed source of income."PRS for Music has stated that its payout to its members was decreased by £800,000 (US$1,3 million, €900,000), due to improved society efficiency and a reduction in costs related to administration. According to Newsbeat, the small royalty drop may trigger a larger decline, causing new musical composers and writers to avoid joining the music industry. The company believes that further action needs to be taken to prevent the lack of CD sales and compete with illegal downloads, including the development of legal download services.Akmal Shaikh, a 53-year old British national, has been executed at 10:30 China standard time (02:30 GMT) today. He was arrested for carrying drugs in September 2007. Shaikh is said to have suffered from bipolar disorder and pleas for clemency were made by British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and actor Stephen Fry.Shaikh's condition reportedly caused him to suffer from delusions, and he had unrealistic ambitions to become a pop star. In his quest for stardom he travelled widely, first to Poland and then through Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, where he associated with supposed music producers who promised to help him launch his music career. On 12 September 2007, Akmal Shaikh flew from Dushanbe, in Tajikistan, to Ürümqi, in north west China, where he was arrested by Chinese authorities for possession of 4kg of heroin.Shaikh's family claims that he suffered from mental illness and was tricked by Polish smugglers into carrying drugs in a suitcase which did not belong to him, with a promise to make him a pop star in China. The Chinese buried his body in China and it will not be returned to his family in the UK. Chinese state media say western news outlets are "politicizing" Mr. Shaikh punishment and that the Chinese officials have ruled that there is insufficient evidence of Mr. Shaikh alleged mental illness.An investigation by the Sunday Times newspaper has made allegations of bribery against four members of the House of Lords, Britain's unelected upper legislative body.The paper says it has secretly made recordings of Lord Truscott admitting to making a recent energy bill more favourable to a client who markets "smart" electricity meters.The Sunday Times also alleges that Lord Taylor of Blackburn had claimed to have made changes to a bill to help Experian, a credit reference agency. The paper adds that Lords Moonie and Snape had agreed to take payments from undercover journalists.The Daily Telegraph reports that Baroness Royall of Blaisdon, the Leader of the House of Lords, issued a statement saying "I am deeply concerned about these allegations. I have spoken to the members who are the subject of them and I shall be pursuing these matters with the utmost vigour".The AFP news agency notes that the Lords' Code of Conduct requires that members "must never accept any financial inducement as an incentive or reward for exercising parliamentary influence". The Sunday Times says that there have been "persistent rumours" that lobbyists have switched to concentrating on the Lords rather than the Commons because "MPs are under greater scrutiny".A British nursery worker, Vanessa George, and two other people, Angela Allen and Colin Blanchard, have been convicted, in Bristol Crown Court, of sexually abusing minors and sharing the pictures online.Each person recorded images on their mobile phones, and shared them with each of the other two via email and text. Detective Superintendent Adrian Pearson of Nottinghamshire Police called this behaviour "horrific and devilish", saying, "Those three individuals have shared quite willingly and freely images, texts, fantasies of the most serious level you could imagine."The three people, who met on social networking website Facebook, had never seen each other in real life until they attended court. Allen wept in the dock, while co-accused George hung her head. Blanchard—who has been on the Sex Offenders Register for five years previously—however, showed no reaction.Vanessa George pleaded guilty to thirteen charges, including one count of sexual assault. Allen admitted four counts of sexual assault and one of distributing inappropriate images, and Blanchard nineteen charges, including seventeen of sexual assault, and a further charge of possessing    extreme pornography. George refuses to identify which of the children on the police's thirty-strong shortlist she attacked. The three have yet to be sentenced, and the crime carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment.George, aged 39, a mother of two teenage daughters from Plymouth, Devon, had worked for Little Ted's Nursery for three years, and in the childcare industry for 10 years. Blanchard, 38, from Smallbridge, Greater Manchester was an IT technician, and had a rocky relationship with his wife of 16 years. Allen, 39, lived in Nottingham, and says she has had an online relationship with Blanchard.MPs at the British Parliament have voted by large majority of 200 to bring in legislation banning smoking in all pubs, clubs and workplaces in a landmark free vote. The ban is expected to come into force from summer 2007. The originally proposed fine of £200 was raised to £2500 for failing to stop people smoking in banned areas in the late stages of the parliamentary process. Other fines include a fixed penalty notice of £50 for lighting up in banned areas and spot fines of £200 for failing to display no smoking signs in banned areas.Smoking may also be banned in "substantially enclosed" venues such as railway stations and football stadiums; this may also include cars carrying passengers but no decision has been taken on this as yet. Ministers will finalise precise regulations after a three month consultation.The vote was politically fraught, as the Labour Party in government had proposed a 'compromise' bill, in line with their election manifesto, which would allow pubs not serving food to be exempt from the ban. With many Labour MPs threatening to rebel against this compromise however, in favour of a full ban, Labour granted its members a free vote.  MPs then voted for the full ban by a margin of 453 votes to 125,­ a majority of 328.MPs then debated a last-minute amendment to exempt private members clubs, which was also rejected, by 384 votes to 184,­ a majority of 200. The Prime Minister, Tony Blair, voted for a complete ban along with his health secretary, Patricia Hewitt.The ban will bring England in line with Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales, which will all be introducing a full smoking ban for pubs and clubs. The bill also gives ministers powers to increase the age for purchasing cigarettes from 16 to 18 which ministers will begin the consultation process upon shortly.Dr Freddy Patel, a former British Home Office pathologist, has been criticised by a panel at the General Medical Council (GMC), Britain's regulatory body for doctors. Dr Patel had concluded that the death of Sally White in 2002, the first victim of Anthony Hardy (the so-called "Camden Ripper"), could have been from natural causes.The report produced by Dr Patel concluded that Sally White had been having consensual sex in her apartment when she died of a heart attack, in spite of blood stains on her clothing, blood at the scene, damage to Ms White's liver and bite marks. The GMC panel found that Dr Patel had included inaccurate information on his CV and had shown "deficient professional performance" in the evaluation of the cause of Sally White's death. They concluded that this investigation was "irresponsible, not of the standard expected of a competent forensic pathologist and liable to bring the medical profession into disrepute". Dr Patel is currently suspended and the decision of the panel may lead to him being struck off.The GMC had previously investigated Dr Patel and criticised his investigation of the death of Ian Tomlinson, a newspaper seller who died during the G20 protests in London. He concluded that the death was caused by coronary heart disease; subsequent investigations by other pathologists showed that he had died from internal bleeding caused by a blunt force trauma — an assault by a police officer caught on video. The Director of Public Prosecution noted afterwards that the mistakes in the forensic pathology report by Dr Patel had made it significantly harder to bring the police officer who fatally assaulted Ian Tomlinson to justice. Dr Patel has also been investigated by the GMC for alleged misconduct in the investigation of the deaths of two children.Ten suspected terrorists were arrested in three different parts of Britain. In the Croydon section of south London three men were arrested. In Wolverhampton, four were arrested in a series of dawn raids at three addresses and three in Derby, Scotland Yard said.The driver of a taxicab was charged on Saturday by Wiltshire Police with the murder of Sian O'Callaghan, a 22-year-old woman. 47-year-old male Christopher Halliwell was arrested on Thursday. Personal assistant Sian O'Callaghan disappeared after departing from a nightclub, called Suju, in Swindon, England on March 19, 2011. She was never seen publicly again. The remains of her body were discovered during examinations taking place near Uffington, Oxfordshire on Thursday; the discovery was announced on Saturday.Christopher Halliwell is expected to appear in court in Swindon on Monday. Simon Brenchley, the District Crown Prosecutor, has stated: "I have been working closely with Wiltshire Police and now have authorised them to charge Christopher Halliwell with Sian O'Callaghan's murder. Having reviewed the evidence, I am satisfied that there is sufficient to charge him, and that it is in the public interest to do so. I will keep liaising closely with the police as their investigation continues."Detective Superintendent Steve Fulcher is currently searching for individuals who may have been "lamping" (poaching) in the region of Ramsbury in Wiltshire or its surrounding area at approximately 0300 BST (0200 UTC) on March 19, 2011. He indicated that the police had no interest in prosecuting any poachers who came forward.Various tributes have been paid to Sian O'Callaghan since her death. At an event held on Saturday night, hundreds of balloons and Chinese lanterns were released. Thousands of people held a two minute silence at the Polo Ground in Swindon. Bowling group members had a period of silence at the club where O'Callaghan used to play. Individuals also left messages of condolence on a sign at the ground.On social networking website Facebook, a recent message from an event page entitled 'Lighting up the sky, for Sian' says: "In light of the recent tragic news of the discovery of a body police believe to be Sian's, we see it fit to change the purpose of this gathering. We are, sadly, no longer lighting Sian's way home, we are lighting the sky to show that a life has been taken, but will not be forgotten."Meanwhile, during ongoing searches in Eastleach, Gloucestershire, the remains of a second woman were unearthed. The woman is aged 23–30 years old, according to police. Referring to the as of yet formally unidentified individual, investigation leader Fulcher noted: "It has been indicated to me that this young woman was taken from the Swindon area between 2003 and 2005. The remains will now be subject of further forensic laboratory tests and a post-mortem examination. The police search at the site is expected to continue for the time being."Three men suspected of involvement in the July 7 suicide bombings in London have been detained by terrorist police, in the first major arrests in the case following the attacks following a lengthy police investigation.Two of the suspects were detained at Manchester Airport while they were attempting to board a plane to Pakistan, while the other was found in Leeds.The arrests in Manchester occurred around 1300 GMT while the arrest in Leeds took place around 1600 GMT.Fifty-two people were killed in the 2005 bombings on three London Underground trains and buses.  The devices used were detonated by four bombers.Police are able to hold the suspects for twenty-eight days under the new anti-terror laws.  The four men have been held on the suspicion of the commission, preparation, or instigation of terrorist acts.The Metropolitan Police, a British police force based in the capital city of London, has announced its intention to commence a new investigation related to allegations of computer hacking. The force has received numerous allegations of computer and email hacking relating to journalists since January of this year, prompting the launch of the probe, codenamed Operation Tuleta. According to a spokesperson for Scotland Yard, computer hacking allegations have already been brought into account, but now, "some aspects of that operation are being moved towards investigation".These allegations occurred during Operation Weeting, which has investigated alleged phone hacking offences. The Metropolitan Police said that the computer hacking claims were not within the remit of the phone hacking allegation probe, so a separate investigation had to be launched. Operation Tuleta consists of a fresh team of detectives, who will provide information to Operation Weeting deputy assistant commissioner Sue Akers.Meanwhile, the legal representatives for Glenn Mulcaire, a private investigator for the former British publication News of the World (NotW) have stated that he was proceeding "on the instructions of others". Sara Payne, the mother of the murdered girl Sarah Payne, was informed that Mulcaire possibly hacked into her phone and gathered her contact information. Payne was said to be "very distressed and upset" by the allegations. Mulcaire was sentenced to prison in January 2007 along with Clive Goodman, the royal editor for the NotW.The final edition of the NotW was published this July, amid the phone hacking scandal within News Corporation. A public inquiry relating to the affair was launched, triggered by allegations of phone hacking and police corruption.At dawn this morning a team of 250 policemen stormed a building in Forest Gate, London, England. A part of the police teams were armed, while others were equipped with chemical weapons gear. Two men were arrested and one was shot in the raid made under the 2000 Terrorism Act.Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, the Metropolitan Police's anti-terror chief, said he had acted on specific intelligence, "we planned an operation that was designed to mitigate any threat to the public either from firearms or from hazardous substances." The injury to the man who was shot was not life threatening and the Independent Police Complaints Commission, who have opened an investigation into the incident, say a single shot was fired. At Royal London Hospital where the man, later arrested, was taken armed guards were seen at the entrances.The man, said to be 20 years old, who was not shot, has been questioned at Paddington Green police station. Others at the address have been moved out - two residents have been treated in hospital for shock.The search at the house in Lansdown Road is said to be ongoing. Police have closed Lansdown Road, Rothsay Road and Prestbury Road and a blind has been erected around the premises. The Civil Aviation Authority report a four-day "no fly area" below 2,500ft is in force over east London.  The British intelligence agency, MI5, and the Health Protection Agency also had a role in the operation, which British Prime Minister Tony Blair had been told about. The raid is not thought to be linked to the London tube and bus bombings in July 2005.Saturday, June 3, 2006 Police say the raid was carried out in search of a 'suicide vest' that could be used to release poison gas.  Police say MI5 believe there exists 'firm intelligence' that such a vest exists.As of Friday evening, police had yet to discover weapons, chemicals or any other evidence of a planned attack.The two men arrested are believed to be 23 and 20 year old brothers, Mohammed Abdul Kahar and Abdul Koyair, both of Bangladeshi origin.  Abdul Kahar was shot in the shoulder during the raid, his injury is said to be non life threatening.British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has called for the immediate release of 5 British hostages abducted in Baghdad, Iraq last May. For the first time since the 5 Britons were abducted on May 29 from a Finance Ministry compound by gunmen posing as police officers, a video released Tuesday by a group called the Islamic Shia Resistance in Iraq showed one of the men being held. It was the first public evidence that the men might still be alive."My name is Jason and today is the 18th of November," said one of the hostages.In that video, the captors say they will start to kill the hostages, who include four security guards and one computer expert, if Britain does not withdraw all of its remaining troops from Iraq soon.Over the months, little if anything has been disclosed about what Britain is doing to gain the release of those held. Today,  Brown underlined that behind the scenes, things were being done."The taking of hostages is completely unjustified, wholly unacceptable and we are making it clear they will not change our policy in any way," Brown said. "We will do everything in our power to secure our objective, which is the immediate release of the hostages." He however stressed that Britain will not be making any kind of deal to gain the release of the five.Speaking on Sky News, British Foreign Secretary David Miliband spoke of the stress the families of those being held are under."It is important that publicity is never confused with activity, and especially in a case like this, it is very, very important that we follow a very careful strategy," said Miliband. "The stress of the families is going to be huge. It is bad enough to have the hostage-taking. To then have the video coming out last week is just going to add, has added, hugely to the distress. But the whole of the British government is working very, very actively on this."The family and friends of the hostages also appealed for the release, in an emotional appeal which took place on Wednesday.Brown also praised Iraqi Prime Minister Maliki and his government for their efforts to free the men.British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, has suffered what some consider a humiliating political defeat after the House of Commons dismissed a controversial government proposal to permit the detention of terror suspects for up to 90 days without bringing charges. Under current UK anti-terrorism laws, suspects can be held for up to 14 days without any charges being made against them.Members of Mr Blair's Labour Party used the vote to rebel against the proposal, with a crucial 49 tipping the balance to reject it by 322 votes to 291. It was the first Commons defeat for Mr Blair in his 8 years as Prime Minister. Later, a second proposal to extend the detention time limit for terror suspects to 28 days was passed by 323 votes to 290.The police called for new powers after the bomb attacks in London on July 7, 2005. They argued that because anti-terrorist investigations can take considerable time, the new powers would have been justified. Critics are sceptical of these claims. Opponents believe that by effectively giving the government the right to imprison for up to three months anyone who it alleged to have been involved in terrorism, without having to present any charges in court to justify the detention, the bill could have led to abuses of power.     Leaders of the opposition parties were delighted with the results. Conservative leader Michael Howard said the vote had "diminished" the Prime Minister's authority and that he should tender his resignation. Charles Kennedy, leader of the Liberal Democrats, called Mr Blair a "lame duck".Speaking after the result of the vote was announced, Mr Blair accused those who'd opposed the measure of being "out of touch", talking of a "worrying gap between parts of Parliament and the reality of the terrorist threat and public opinion". Former Conservative ministers Peter Lilley and Stephen Dorrell criticised the government for using senior police officers to lobby MPs over the vote. They characterised this as  the "politicisation of the police".Five British sailors traveling in a yacht in the Persian Gulf were detained and released by Iranian authorities after they accidentally crossed into Iranian waters. The sailors were on their way to a race then they suffered propeller problems and drifted into Iranian waters.Iranian authorities interrogated the sailors and released them after they found no evidence of "bad intentions." They earlier warned that the sailors would face prosecution if they suspected any wrong doing."[There was] certainly no question of any malicious intent on the part of these five young people," stated the Iranian Foreign Ministry to the IRNA. The Revolutionary Guard stated, "after carrying out an investigation and interrogation of the five British sailors, it became clear that their illegal entry was a mistake."Team Pindar composed of David Bloomer, Luke Porter, Oliver Smith, Oliver Young and Sam Usher, were travelling to the Dubai-Muscat Offshore Sailing Race, a 360-mile (580-kilometer) race when they were arrested on November 25. The race took place on November 26. The sailors were met by team representatives and are being escorted in their yacht out of Iranian waters. David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary for the UK denies that the unconditional release was not a political move calling it a "human story" and that it had "nothing to do with politics. It's got nothing to do with the nuclear enrichment program."A similar incident took place in July, but on land. Three American hikers, identified as Shaun Gabriel Maxwell, Shane Bower and Sara Short, were arrested on July 31 in the country after they crossed into Iranian territory. Reports say the hikers accidentally crossed into Iran while hiking between Halabja and Ahmad Awa in the Kurdish Region of Iraq.A 15-year-old schoolboy was found guilty in Lincoln Youth Court in England yesterday of racial harrassment of a 14-year-old schoolgirl.  The case is regarded as a landmark case, the first such case of its kind.Raymond Wildsmith, prosecuting, described the events. The boy had for a period of several months taunted the girl with racial epithets including "wog, coon, nigger, gorilla, and golliwog". He had told her to "Go back to your own country. You don’t belong here.", and chanted "White, white, white is right, kick them out, fight, fight, fight."Unidentified sources told the Daily Mail that the boy had supported the British National Party, and had attempted to enlist other youths as supporters as well.The girl, who was of mixed English and African heritage, had already changed schools once to avoid racial abuse.  She initially did not report the abuse at the new school, for fear that the boy would turn violent. The girl's parents first learned of it when she attempted to commit suicide, in January, by taking a combination of stress pills and painkillers. Her suicide note requested that people not wear black at her funeral.  She ended up in hospital, and then "sectioned" (involuntarily committed under the provisions of § 4 the Mental Health Act) to a psychiatric institution for several weeks.  She will now change schools again.The boy was found guilty after a six-hour trial.  He is scheduled for sentencing on August the 13th. Another 15-year-old boy charged with the same offence was found not guilty.Under § 45 and Schedule 2 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 and § 49 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933, it is illegal in England and Wales for news reports to identify either of the children involved in the case.A coroner has ruled that a conservationist shot dead in Ecuador was unlawfully killed.  Dr. Ben Samphire was studying a rare species of howler monkey when he was shot dead in February last year.  The 31-year-old, who was born in Zambia but lived in the United Kingdom, had been in Ecuador less than a month when he was killed.The inquest heard that Deputy Gwent coroner Wendy James recorded a verdict of unlawful killing caused by a shotgun wound to the back. James said that "After being in Ecuador a matter of weeks Ben was shot in the back, sustaining fatal injuries. The motive for this attack has not been communicated by the Ecuador police”.Detective sergeant Wendy Keepin told the inquest that the Gwent police are working with the Foreign Office to locate the killer. She said "They have told us they have been making inquiries to locate the offender. The village he is located in is in a forest and they believe he has gone to ground. They are struggling to locate him." The motive of the killing is still disputed. Early reports speculated that he had been mistaken for an intruder and shot dead by the landowner.An able seaman in the Royal Navy has appeared at a magistrates court in Southampton, England this morning, charged with murder and attempted murder.  Able Seaman Ryan Samuel Donovan is accused of shooting a crewmate dead in a Royal Navy nuclear submarine last week. One other crewman, Lt. Commander Christopher Hodge, was seriously injured in the attack and remains in stable condition at a local hospital.Last night, the chief prosecutor for the Crown Prosecution Service in Wessex confirmed that 22-year old Donovan, who served aboard HMS Astute, had been charged with killing 36-year-old Lieutenant Commander Ian Molyneux and attempting to murder three others; Petty Officer Christopher Brown, Chief Petty Officer David McCoy and Lieutenant Commander Christopher Hodge. "Having reviewed the evidence, I am satisfied that there is sufficient to charge him, and that it is in the public interest to do so," he said.Over the weekend serious questions over the Royal Navy's recruitment policy were raised as it emerged he had changed his name to Reggie Moondogg and tried to start a singing career as a rap artist. Relatives of the alleged gunman criticised the Royal Navy for not allowing Donovan to leave the Astute after a confrontation with a number of other crewmen. One, speaking on condition of anonymity, said senior officers knew of Donovan's deteriorating relationships with several other crew, but failed to take action. The shootings occurred on Friday when the submarine was docked in Southampton and a party of local dignitaries visited the vessel. It is alleged Donovan walked into the control room of the ship with an SA80 assault rifle and fired multiple shots, killing Molyneux and injuring another serviceman. Molyneux's widow, Gillian, has this weekend described Molyneux, a father of four, as "utterly devoted to his family".A British serial killer has yesterday entered guilty pleas to all three counts of murder he faced. Stephen Griffiths, 40, who attracted tabloid attention by calling himself the "Crossbow Cannibal", killed the prostitutes in his flat in Bradford, West Yorkshire, England and will spend the rest of his life behind bars.Griffiths, a former van driver with a degree in psychology and studying for a PhD in criminology, was caught when police were alerted to a murder caught on CCTV. A caretaker, reviewing footage from the building where Griffiths's flat is, saw Suzanne Blamires, 36, and Griffiths enter the flat. Two minutes later, she ran out and he followed, beating her to the ground and shooting her in the head with a crossbow. He raised his crossbow above his head for the CCTV, then dragged the body away. Returning with a drink, he raised the can and one finger to the camera.Over the course of a weekend, he was seen several times with bin bags and a rucksack. After Griffiths was arrested by armed police on May 24, her dismembered remains were found floating the the River Ayre near Shipley; her head was in a rucksack and it was yesterday revealed a crossbow bolt and broken knife were embedded in it. Robert Smith QC, prosecuting, said she was in 81 pieces. Smith added that Griffiths confessed to killing her and cutting her up by hand; he had previously used power tools on his victims. Shelley Armitage, 31, had been missing since April when police charged Griffiths; a piece of spine in the River Ayre was later identified as hers. Also found by the river was a suitcase containing knives and saws.It was yesterday revealed her murder was also on video. Griffiths recorded the act on his mobile, which he then lost on a train. Its finder sold it on twice before police retrieved it, but the footage remained. Armitage is seen hogtied on cushions, the words "My Sex Slave" spray-painted in black on her back. She is also seen dead and naked in his bathtub. "I am Ven Pariah, I am the Bloodbath Artist," Griffiths said as part of a commentary to the video. "Here’s a model who is assisting me."The third murder - that of Susan Rushworth, 43 - dates back to June last year, when she vanished. Although police believe she was killed with a hammer and Griffiths has spoken of the death, no remains were ever found and the only physical evidence was one bloodstain in her killer's flat. Police found evidence he tried to clean up, with bathroom tiles removed and carpets lifted. "It was just a slaughterhouse in the bathtub," he told police at interview. He later confessed to police that "I, or part of me, is responsible for killing Susan Rushworth, Shelley Armitage and Suzanne Blamires, who I know as Amber." Two crossbows, crossbow bolts, and serial killer literature were seized from his flat.The day before the final murder, Griffiths wrote on MySpace, using the Ven Pariah pseudonym, he had "finally emerged into the world." He continued: "What will this pseudo-human do, one wonders. Poor Stephen, pretended to be me, but he was only the wrapping. He knew towards the end, that I supplied the inner core of iron. Hatred Bound Tightly In Flesh. At very long last, the time has come to act out." He would later tell officers he was having a mental "civil war".He told the magistrates' court on his first appearance his name was "The Crossbow Cannibal." Yesterday, he was asked at Leeds Crown Court merely to confirm his name, answering "yes". Each murder charge was read to him, and he answered "guilty" to each. Five security guards flanked him. He has also called himself the SF killer. Although he claimed to have boiled and eaten flesh from the first two victims and eaten the third raw, police could not verify this. The Telegraph says the suspect he invented it to increase his fame, but News Limited quotes Sky News as claiming police believed his cannibalistic claims.Mr Justice Openshaw, the judge, yesterday called Griffiths "wicked and monstrous." He told the court the killer's mental health had been investigated and there is "no question that he [i]s fit to plead." He gave Griffiths the whole life tariff, meaning he will never be released.Griffiths has attempted suicide while in prison awaiting trial, and police have not yet established if he killed three more women, as he told officers his count stood at six.At the time Griffiths was charged, Nicky Blamires, 54, has told the press her daughter Suzanne was a "much-loved" family member even though she "went down the wrong path and did not have the life she was meant to have." "Nobody deserves this," she said. "All these girls were human beings and people's daughters."Griffiths was known as "the lizard man" in his block of flats owing to his habit of walking his two pet monitor lizards in the area. One neighbour is reported to have quoted him as saying he was studying for "a PhD in murder and Jack the Ripper," and he has spent time in a high-security psychiatric hospital.British media was quick to compare the case to Peter Sutcliffe, dubbed the "Yorkshire Ripper". Sutcliffe was a Bradford killer responsible for thirteen murders and seven attempted murders, including several prostitutes. Since his 1981 conviction he has spent most of the last three decades in Broadmoor high-security psychiatric hospital near London.An episode of the British soap opera Coronation Street has been postponed after it was due to air on the same day as a string of shootings in Cumbria occurred. The episode, due to be broadcast on ITV last night, featured a siege and hostage situation heavily involving guns.The soap was replaced with an episode of Harry Hill's TV Burp. ITV released a statement "ITV has postponed tonight's episode of Coronation Street out of respect to those affected by today's tragedy. Coronation Street will be replaced by a compilation episode of TV Burp."The broadcast was shelved after a man shot dead 12 people and injured several more in Cumbria. This episode of Coronation Street is one of a six part collection of episodes. They took around four weeks to film.An Iranian-born British soldier has been jailed for ten years after being convicted of "communicating information useful to an enemy". Forty-five year-old Daniel James from Brighton had been the personal translator for the head of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan, General Sir David Richards.After joining the Territorial Army, Britain's army reserve, James was sent to Afghanistan in May 2006. He was arrested in December 2006, two months after he made contact with Colonel Mohammed Hossein Heydari, an Iranian military attaché in Kabul. The court heard allegations that James believed he had been denied promotion because of racism and jealousy, and also that he had debts of £25,000 and had mortgages on four properties in Brighton.The jury at London's Central Criminal Court was unable to agree on verdicts on two other charges under the Official Secrets Act, relating to his possession of sensitive documents on a USB memory stick, and a second of misconduct in a public office.Last week, Cypriot authorities released British soldier Allan Ford from a prison in Cyprus despite protests from Danish authorities. Allan Ford was one of three British soldiers serving life sentences for the brutal murder of 23-year-old Dane Louise Jensen, a tourist guide. Still serving, are fellow soldiers Justin Fowler and Geoff Pernell. Jensen's family and Danish authorities appealed Cyprus to reconsider the decision but it was in vain.In 1994, after a drinking binge, the three soldiers came upon Louise Jensen and her boyfriend, who were on motorcycle. With their jeep, the soldiers struck the pair and abducted Jensen. They then sexually abused her and killed her with strikes to the head from a spade.Allan Ford, Justin Fowler and Geoff Pernell were subsequently convicted to life in prison and discharged from the military. In 1998, the sentence was reduced to 25 years after an appeal case. Now, after serving 12 years the Cypriotic authorities have decided to release them with time off for good behavior and remission. To avoid a public outrage similar to that of 1994, the three will be released separately. Allan Ford was released last week and quietly spirited away to the United Kingdom. Justin Fowler and Geoff Pernell are scheduled to be released later this month.An unnamed male student has fallen to his death from a tenth floor window in Middlesbrough, England.The 24-year-old threw himself out of an open window in Middlesbrough Tower, the main building of the University of Teesside. The drop was 120 feet high. Police and ambulance were called to the scene at around 18:30. The police are currently trying to contact the student's family, who do not live locally. The police have said that they are not treating the death as suspicious. A post-mortem is to be carried out today.The building was open at the time and therefore anyone could have walked in, although CCTV was in operation. Students and staff who were in Middlesbrough Tower at the time were forced to leave the building at around 19:30 and give contact details to the police on duty.One woman, who left the building minutes after the incident said, "There were three security guards and I think a cleaner near the body. They were obviously the first on the scene - and one of the security guards had already called an ambulance."A spokesman for the university, which caters for 9,700 students, said, "We can confirm we are assisting the police following the tragic incident at the university campus last night. We will give more information as soon as we are able.""At this time there are no suspicious circumstances and the coroner has been informed," said a police spokesperson. "The male is confirmed to be a student at the university and attempts are being made to contact relatives and for the male to be formally identified."19-year-old Kathleen Jennings walked free from court today after getting an absolute discharge from her court case.  The teen was taken to court by train operator Merseyrail after being caught with her feet on a chair.The teen wept as she left court as a conviction would have shattered her dream of becoming a teacher but the absolute discharge means that no conviction or other penalty will be imposed and the attempted prosecution will have no affect on her criminal record.Merseyrail is the only British train operator to prosecute for this offence and most others only impose a fine after repeat offences, however their "zero tolerance" policy has resulted in over 250 people being taken to court by the operator with another 800 thought to come. Merseyrail said in a statement: "We do not regard our campaign as Draconian. We are responding to the demands of passengers who don't want to sit on a seat covered in mud or dirt, and the campaign has received widespread messages of support from passengers throughout the country."Putting feet on seats is antisocial and there are plenty of warnings on our network against this behaviour and the consequences of doing so."Gillian Gibbons, the British teacher arrested in Sudan on Sunday for naming a teddy bear Muhammad, was charged on Wednesday, and tried, convicted, and sentenced yesterday to 15 days imprisonment for "insulting religion." The 54-year-old mother of two avoided a possible 40 lashes, but will be deported at the end of her sentence, which will run from the date of her arrest.Following the speedy trial, British Foreign Secretary David Miliband summoned Sudanese ambassador Omer Siddig to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to explain the verdict. During the 45 minute meeting Mr Miliband expressed "in the strongest terms" the government's concern at the sentence, and spoke by telephone to the Sudanese acting foreign minister.A British teacher working in Sudan was arrested on Sunday after parents allegedly complained that she had insulted Islam by naming a teddy bear Muhammad. She faces a possible six months in prison, 40 lashes, or a fine.Akmal Shaikh, a 53-year old British national, has been held in prison in the People's Republic of China since 2007 under charges of drug trafficking and  is due to be executed at 10:30 China standard time (02:30 GMT) on 29 December 2009. Shaikh is said to suffer from bipolar disorder and pleas for clemency have been made by British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and actor Stephen Fry.Shaikh's condition reportedly causes him to suffer from delusions, and he has unrealistic ambitions to become a pop star. In his quest for stardom he travelled widely, first to Poland and then through Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, where he associated with supposed music producers who promised to help him launch his music career. On 12 September 2007, Akmal Shaikh flew from Dushanbe, in Tajikistan, to Ürümqi, in north west China, where he was arrested by Chinese authorities for posession of 4kg of heroin.Opponents of his execution claim he suffers from mental illness and was tricked into carrying drugs in a suitcase which did not belong to him. Shaikh is currently being held in a secure hospital in Ürümqi.The Chinese Embassy in London has issued a statement about the case, citing the obligations of the People's Republic of China to United Nations Conventions against Illicit Drug Trafficking and the need to punish the "grave crime" of drug smuggling. The embassy statement guarantees Shaikh's rights and interests under Chinese law.A British woman has been sentenced to death in Indonesia for drug smuggling. Lindsay Sandiford, 56, was found guilty of breaking the tough drug laws in place in Indonesia at the Denpasar district court yesterday, having being found with 10.6 lb of cocaine, worth about £1.6m, in the lining of her suitcase at Bali's main airport in May last year. Lawyers for Ms Sandiford, who is originally from the town of Redcar in Teesside, England, said the ruling "surprised" them, and they would appeal. U.K. Foreign Office Minister Hugo Swire expressed his strong objection to the decision and said the U.K. opposed the use of the death penalty. "We are aware that Lindsay Sandiford is facing the death penalty in Indonesia. We strongly object to the death penalty and continue to provide consular assistance to Lindsay and her family during this difficult time," he said.Ms Sandiford was stopped on May 19 during a routine customs check at Ngurah Rai airport in Bali, after arriving from Bangkok via Thai Airways. She told the court, "I would like to begin by apologising to the Republic of Indonesia and the Indonesian people for my involvement.I would never have become involved in something like this but the lives of my children were in danger and I felt I had to protect them."Prosecutors were not pursuing the death penalty for Ms Sandiford, instead asking for 15 years in prison.The court is expected to deliver a verdict in the trial of Julian Ponder today. He was allegedly involved in drug smuggling with Ms Sandiford and Rachel Dougall.Mr Ponder is accused of receiving the drugs from Ms Sandiford in Bali. He denies the accusations, saying he was expecting delivery of a birthday present for his child from Ms Sandiford.In the court verdict against Ms Sandiford, a panel of judges said she had damaged Bali's image.Although 114 Indonesian prisoners are sentenced to death, including about 40 foreigners most of whom are drug-crime convicts, no executions have taken place since 2008.Police are still looking for the suspect that killed Denver Broncos cornerback Darrent Williams, 24, in a drive by shooting January 1. Williams was killed by a single gunshot wound to the neck.Police say there was a disagreement at a nightclub birthday party for Kenyon Martin, a forward with the Denver Nuggets National Basketball Association team, and Williams and his two friends left. His two friends, a man and a woman, were hit along with him.The suspect was in a white 1998 Chevrolet Tahoe. Police said earlier they where looking for a Tahoe or Suburban with dark-tinted windows.Williams teamates honoured him at a memorial service today."We'll have a memorial service on Wednesday with our players and coaches and Darrent's family," Broncos coach Mike Shanahan said at a press conference on Tuesday. "I don't think he had a guy that wasn't his friend," added Shanahan. "That's the way he lived life. He always had a smile on his face.""[Receiver Javon Walker] just went through a tragic experience," Shanahan said about one of the other injured passengers. "A lot of times when somebody has that happen to them, they wonder why it (wasn't them). That's just human nature and obviously the counselors are talking with him about that. It's a process. It takes some time."The entire Denver Broncos will attend the funeral service for Williams on Saturday in his hometown of Fort Worth, Texas, according to Shanahan.The investigation remains ongoing.Second-alarm flames engulfed a Bronx, New York church, St Nicholas of Tolentine, just before noon on Friday, forcing its pastor and seven worshippers into the streets.The blaze began in a confessional-converted-storage room near the vestibule of the church. "I rushed over and smoke was billowing out," said Father Joseph Girone. Girone rushed parishioners through the church rectory door as the entrance had been blocked.Over 100 firefighters fought the blaze, and several reported minor injuries due to ceiling collapse.Fire Department (FDNY) officials immediately suspected arson. "The fire accelerated rapidly [and] it was a heavy fire that didn't have the normal flow of a fire", said FDNY Deputy Chief Kevin Scanlon. Investigators are determining whether the fire is related to a series of church burnings that have been occurring across the borough.Parishioners are distraught by the destruction of their beloved church.  Father Joseph Tran said, "The whole vestibule is damaged. The ceiling, the walls and the doors". Isabel Gonzales, a regular attendant for 28 years, said, "I feel sorry and I want to cry because this has been my home away from home for a long time". A church official reported that it was too early to determine construction lengths or repair costs.Devoted worshippers promised that they would hold a "Stations of the Cross" gathering outside on Friday night.Yesterday, the Milwaukee County district attorney charged Cory J. Feerick, a 33-year-old from Brookfield, Wisconsin, with five misdemeanor counts of stealing US$35,000 worth of flush valves from fast food restaurants and university toilets and urinals. If convicted, Feerick could spend to 9 to 45 months in jail, and pay between US$10,000 and US$50,000 in fines.Initially arrested in late January following a local news television story on the thefts, he stands accused of stealing parts worth between US$300 and US$600 each from locations that included Milwaukee Area Technical College, Waukesha County Technical College, ITT Technical Institute, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Marquette University, the Pick 'n Save on Capitol Drive in Brookfield, and the Arby’s  also located on Capitol Drive in Brookfield.  Feerick was dubbed the "Backpack Bathroom Bandit" by the media because video showed him committing the thefts while wearing a backpack. The thefts reportedly took place in September and October of last year, with several area police departments involved in investigating them.On Friday in Pakistan, Mohammed Waseem, brother of social media personality and feminist Qandeel Baloch, was sentenced for her murder to life in prison by a court in Multan.  Waseem confessed to killing his sister by strangling her in 2016 in what has widely been called an honor killing.  She was 26.Baloch and Waseem's mother, Anwar, wept upon hearing her son had been convicted and said she believed he was innocent.  In August, the parents tried to have Waseem released by saying they forgave him for the killing.  Until recently, Pakistani law allowed the perpetrators of honor killings to go unpunished if forgiven by the victim's family.Even though Waseem confessed to acting alone, several alleged accomplices, including Muslim cleric Mufti Abdul Qawi, were tried by the same court.  All, including Qawi, were acquitted.  Baloch was murdered a few weeks after publicly posting pictures of herself with Qawi on the Internet, and Qawi drew criticism for associating with her.  Qawi was later accused of inciting the murder in some way, which he denied.  Some of Qawi's supporters threw flower petals as he was leaving the courthouse.Waseem appeared in a news conference after his 2016 arrest in which he expressed no regret for his sister's death and specifically mentioned family honor. He has since said his initial confession was forced."As women we must stand up for ourselves. As women we must stand up for each other[,]" Baloch wrote on social media shortly before her death. "I believe I am a modern day feminist."Qandeel Baloch made videos and social media posts depicting her dancing, singing, lying in bed or, on one occasion, offering to disrobe if Pakistan defeated India in a then-upcoming cricket match, all of which are considered controversial for women in Pakistan.When Baloch was born, about 250 miles (400 km) southwest of Lahore, she was Fouzia Azeem, daughter to a poor farming family.  At the time of her murder, Qandeel Baloch, nicknamed the "Kim Kardashian of Pakistan," had about 750,000 followers on Facebook, and wrote about feminism.  In an interview with Dawn, she said as a teenager she was forced into an abusive marriage by her family. She also said that her much-older husband attempted to disfigure her with acid.  Baloch ran away from the marriage to a shelter with her son but later returned the boy to her husband when she could not support him.Since Baloch's death, Pakistan's laws about honor killings have changed.  Though the accused can still avoid the death penalty if forgiven by the victim's family, the minimum prison sentence for the crime even if forgiven is now 25 years.  Waseem is eligible to appeal.Two brothers have been found guilty of killing a ten year-old schoolboy. Damilola Taylor, who was born in Nigeria and had only been in the United Kingdom for a couple of months, was stabbed in the leg and died in the stairwell of a housing estate in Peckham in south London in 2000.Eighteen year-old Danny Preddie and nineteen year-old Rickie Preddie, who live in Peckham, were convicted of manslaughter in a retrial at the Old Bailey this afternoon.On hearing the verdict, Rickie Preddie started shouting and swearing. "You are corrupt. You are nothing," he told the judge, who then ordered prison officers surrounding the teenager to take him out of  the court.Outside the court, Damilola's father Richard Taylor said: "We, the family, feel nobody can ever return our son to us. But it is a great comfort that justice has finally been done for Damilola.  We pray that his gentle soul can now rest in peace."The head of homicide and serious crime at the Metropolitan Police's Specialist Crime Directorate, Commander Dave Johnston, said: "Today justice has finally been reached for Damilola. His violent death in 2000 sent shockwaves throughout London and beyond. For his family it was a very personal tragedy played out in a very public arena and I would like to acknowledge the courage and dignity with which Gloria and Richard Taylor have supported us throughout the police investigations."The two brothers had been cleared earlier this year of murder and assault at an earlier trial.They will be sentenced in two weeks time.A man shot and killed a Broward County Sheriff's Office police dog in Miami Beach after a two-county chase in Florida early Thursday morning.The shooter, Delvin Lewis, 27, was firing shots at his girlfriend during a domestic dispute in Oakland Park. When police arrived, the suspect got into his car and fled, engaging roughly 20 cruisers in a 30-mile chase which ended near Mount Sinai Medical Center's emergency room in Miami Beach. An exchange of gunfire followed in which Lewis reportedly killed the dog. ER doctors tried to save the animal but it was too late.The shooter was also struck and has been taken to Jackson Memorial Hospital where he remains with no life threatening injuries. According to a Mount Sinai spokeswoman hospital facilities are now accessible after the authorities locked down the area for three hours following the shooting.Lewis has been arrested 26 times by Florida authorities including one in July 2003 in which he injured a police dog striking him repeatedly on the head with a cellphone.The suspect has been charged with aggravated assault with a motor vehicle on a law enforcement officer, aggravated fleeing and eluding, resisting an officer with violence and principal in the death of a police dog.Hitting a police dog is a third-degree felony punishable by up to five years in jail, while killing a police officer is a capital offense which can lead to the death penalty.Miami-Dade Police Department is handling the investigation which involves Broward Sheriff Office and Miami Beach police.Lewis has been in and out of jail since 2000 and had been arrested for domestic battery in 2000 and 2004, when he beat a pregnant woman.The dog, whose name was Oozi, was a 7-1/2 years old Belgian Malinois assigned to BSO's Cooper City district. He was trained in narcotics and helped in hundreds of arrests in his career, including 35 this year.Oozi and his partner, Deputy Gerald Wengert, were named BSO's Employees of the month in May for their role in the apprehension of three burglary suspects.A 'terrorist attack' took place yesterday in the form of reportedly at least four explosions at the Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya, India. Four other explosions took place in the vicinity, including one near an eighty-foot tall statue of Buddha and three at Tergar Monastery. Three other bombs were discovered and all were diffused. Early reports claim little damage was done to the temple. Two Buddhist monks were injured. Police commented that Sundays are quiet days at the temple, or more could have been injured. One suspect has been arrested based on closed circuit television that recorded two men placing bombs at the temple. Mahabodhi Temple is considered one of the holiest sites in Buddhism and in India. Totaling twelve acres, it is a designated UNESCO World Heritage Site. The temple is located next to the Bodhi tree, where Buddhists believe that Buddha achieved enlightenment. The bombs were described as "low-intensity but not crude," according to police. The bombs used comprised of a small container with gas, a detonator, and an analog clock. The bombs were timed to explode at 5:45 AM local time, when Buddhists start praying in the morning. The bombs actually went off starting at 5:25 AM and ending at 5:58 AM local time. Early reports state that while the temple suffered little damage, the staircase near the Bodhi tree suffered damage and windows were broken. The Bodhi tree suffered no damage. 200 monks live at the monastery, where daily classes take place during the times when the explosions happened. However, no classes were being held the morning of the attack. The Ministry of Home Affairs has declared the explosions an act of terrorism. In October members of the Indian Mujahideen claimed to have visited Mahabodhi Temple to plan a terrorist attack. That led to the arrests of four suspects involved in the Indian Mujahideen, who were believed to have been involved in the 2012 Pune bombings. The four suspects named other members of the terrorist group and claimed that they planned to attack Mahabodhi Temple. The police in Delhi claim to have told the police in Bihar about the potential of a terrorist attack. Political conflict has risen in the wake of the attacks between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Indian National Congress. BJP is accusing the United Progressive Alliance, which is under the umbrella of the Indian National Congress, of ignoring the Indian Mujahideen's threats about attacking the temple. The Ministry also believes that it could be tied to conflicts in Myanmar between Buddhists and Muslims, despite the rarity of violence against Buddhists in India. Additional security has been placed at Buddhist temples and Tibetan communities in India after the explosions. One suspect, Vinod Mistri, was arrested on Monday morning in Patna.Police are investigating a shooting on Buffalo's East Side late Saturday night which left one person in critical condition at a local hospital.According to Buffalo police communications, at approximately 11:00 p.m. EDT a young male in his late teens was shot at least once in the head near 118 East Utica Street. Police say that witness reports indicate that the shooter then ran over the victim with a car and sped off Westbound on E. Utica.Currently police are searching for a "small white car." No other details on the suspect or his vehicle were given.The victim was taken to Erie County Medical Center where he is undergoing treatment. The extent of his injuries has not yet been released, but he is listed in stable condition.At least one firefighter has been injured while battling a blaze on Buffalo, New York's East side early this morning. The name, extent of his injuries and his condition are not yet known. According to firefighter radio communications, he has been taken to Erie County Medical Center "for evaluation."The blaze began in an attic, inside an abandoned 2 1/2 story wooden frame house at 189 Townsend in the city's East side at about 11:15 p.m. (EDT) Friday evening. The fire quickly spread out of control and firefighters focused their attention on protecting the neighboring house, also abandoned. The fire was extinguished at about 3:00 a.m., just over four hours after it started. Firefighters say "the cause is under investigation."This is the second fire in just over 24 hours to strike the city. Early Friday morning, a fire broke out inside another abandoned home on 133 School Street on the city's West side. Fire traveled to the neighboring occupied house causing extensive damage. Firefighters spent nearly an hour trying to put the fire out. No one was injured. Arson is suspected to be the cause of the blaze.Yesterday, Milan Lučić's family returned home and found their home ransacked by burglars. It was discovered that the young NHL star's prized Memorial Cup ring and several valuable tournament watches were stolen from their home in Vancouver, Canada .Lučić's mother, Snežana, has said that the thieves gained entrance to the family's home by smashing in the back door.Lučić, 20, who lives with his parents, Dobrivoje and Snežana, is a player for the Boston Bruins and flew to Boston on Wednesday to help out at a rookies camp."We don't know if it was random," she said. "They went into his room upstairs and took his Memorial Cup ring and three of his Esquire watches."Other rooms in the home were ransacked and alcohol was stolen."He was very disappointed," said Snežana, referring to Lučić's reaction when she called her son in Boston shortly after the robbery.Before Lučić flew to Boston. he told Snežana before flying to Boston he was thinking about his memorabilia and recalled how, last summer, former goalie for the Edmonton Oilers, Bill Ranford, was robbed of memorabilia from his New Westminster home."So in a way he wasn't surprised," Snežana said.Lučić was raised in East Vancouver. He carried the Vancouver Giants to a Memorial Cup victory in 2007. He was awarded as the Most Valuable Player and led the Giants in scoring for the 2006-07 season.Lučić accumulated 27 points and 89 penalty minutes in his play for with the Boston Bruins last season.According to Snežana the NHL has been advised of the burglary and intends to monitor websites like Craigslist and eBay to see if someone attempts to sell the distinctive ring.The Vancouver Police Department's investigation is ongoing.American politician Roland Burris of the United States Democratic Party was sworn in Thursday as US president-elect Barack Obama's replacement in the United States Senate.Burris was initially not admitted into the Senate, even though Governor of Illinois Rod Blagojevich appointed him to the position, due to allegations that the governor tried to sell the seat. Blagojevich was arrested and has been impeached for the alleged crime. Burris was denied his position on January 6 by other Democratic members of the Congress because his appointment papers were not signed by Jesse White, the Illinois Secretary of State, who had refused to sign his name due to the charges faced by Blagojevich.Burris was officially sworn in by United States Vice President Dick Cheney with no objections from other members of the Congress. Harry Reid, the senior Democratic senator from Nevada and majority leader, who had led the opposition to Burris being appointed, welcomed him into the Senate."On behalf of all senators, Democrats and Republicans, we welcome you as a colleague and a friend," Reid said."No one's ever had anything against Sen. Burris. Like any other senator, he'll have to learn the ropes and not get lost getting to committee hearings, like I have. I think he'll come in with people open to meeting with him and getting to know him. I think it will be just fine," said Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota on the matter. Most other comments by senators stated that they were not against Burris as a person, but were against his appointment by Rod Blagojevich.With the appointment, Burris becomes the only African-American member of the United States Senate. This makes the count of Democrats to Republicans in the Senate 58 Democrats and 41 Republicans, with the final seat waiting on a vote recount ordered by Norm Coleman in his loss to Al Franken of Minnesota.A bomb explosion on a bus in Myanmar (alternatively Burma) has killed a 55-year-old man and left another man wounded. The explosion occurred yesterday at 8:50 am local time (0220 GMT) as the bus traveled to Yangon, but state media has only posted news of the attack today.The deceased was identified only as Khant by the New Light of Myanmar, the Burmese government-owned daily newspaper. The article said that the injured man was 46-year-old Pa Pa and that he received a stomach injury. The bus had 35 passengers traveling from Kyaukkyi, and was near Daik Oo, some 85 miles from its destination.The bombing was blamed on insurgents, but it is unclear which group is responsible. The ruling military junta is subject to attacks from a number of extremist groups opposed to its rule.A bus driver thought to have caused a 2008 crash after falling asleep behind the wheel in California has been convicted of killing eleven on board. Quintin Watts was found guilty of eleven counts of gross vehicular manslaughter and 21 counts of causing great bodily injury.Watts was driving a coach carrying 41 Hmong and Mien people from Sacramento to the Colusa Casino Resort. The vehicle left the country road it was traveling on and rolled over in Colusa County. Most of those on board were elderly.Watts' stepfather Daniel Cobb, who owned the bus company, was amongst those killed. A jury took three hours to return guilty verdicts against the 53-year-old driver, who now faces a maximum of 76 years in jail at his November 4 sentencing.At least 15 civilians, including women and children, have been killed in a bus explosion in Mogadishu's northern district of Yaqshiid in Somalia. The explosion occurred when the bus drove over an IED (improvised explosive device) or landmine while traveling to the Suuqa Holaha district in northern Mogadishu on Wednesday.It is not known who was behind the latest bomb attack but it appeared to be aimed at the government or Ethiopian soldiers. In Mogadishu, the insurgency by militants linked with the ousted Islamic Courts Union has been going on since the Ethiopian invasion in December 2006-January 2007The bus explosion is one of the deadliest terrorist attacks in Somalia in the recent years. In a separate incident today, a roadside blast killed two Somali government soldiers in Baladweyn, Somalia.After an investigation of allegations that Islam's holy book the Qu'ran was mishandled in front of inmates at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the Bush administration has acknowledged the credibility of some of these reports. According to Robert Burns of the Associated Press, U.S. military officials acknowledged that, "a Muslim holy book was splashed with urine," and "a detainee's Quran was deliberately kicked and another's was stepped on." The US government first denied a specific report that the Qu'ran had been flushed down a toilet at the prison facility, but on Friday agreed that similar allegations were indeed true.On May 16, Newsweek magazine apologized to the victims of deadly riots that ensued due to a Newsweek article stating that U.S. officials defiled the Qur'an.  White House Press Secretary Scott McClellan criticized Newsweek's initial response to the incident, saying it was "puzzling." Later that day, Newsweek retracted the story, which the White House said was a "good first step".On May 20, the International Red Cross (IRC) revealed in a rare public announcement that it had documented and reported to the United States credible information concerning desecration of the Qur'an by Guantanamo Bay personnel.  Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman, acknowledged that allegations were made on "rare occasions" but were uncorroborated. Simon Schorno, a Red Cross spokesman, disputed the Pentagon's denial saying, "All information we received were corroborated allegations." He added that, "We certainly corroborated mentions of the events by detainees themselves," and that "the ICRC considers such reports "very seriously, and very carefully, and [we] document everything."Scott McClellan explained in a press conference that the White House is not trying to tell Newsweek what to print. McClellan said, "Look, this report caused serious damage to the image of the United States abroad. And Newsweek has said that they got it wrong. I think Newsweek recognizes the responsibility they have. We appreciate the step that they took by retracting the story. Now we would encourage them to move forward and do all that they can to help repair the damage that has been done by this report. And that's all I'm saying. But, no, you're absolutely right, it's not my position to get into telling people what they can and cannot report."On May 25, Amnesty International called for the shutdown on Guantanamo Bay due to numerous human rights violations, saying "The 'war on terror' appeared more effective in eroding international human rights principles than in countering international 'terrorism'."  Amnesty International's view was shared by both the International Red Cross (IRC) and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU). The IRC has said it reported to the U.S. government detainee's reports of desecration of the Qur'an. In the foreword of the report, written by Amnesty International Secretary General Irene Khan, Guantanamo was compared to a Soviet-era gulag in that it is "entrenching the practice of arbitrary and indefinite detention in violation of international law".White House spokesman Scott McClellan responded saying the report's allegations were "ridiculous and unsupported by the facts. The United States is leading the way when it comes to protecting human rights and promoting human dignity. We have liberated 50 million people in Iraq and Afghanistan. We have worked to advance freedom and democracy in the world so that people are governed under a rule of law and that there are... protections in place for minority rights, that women's rights are advanced so that women can fully participate in societies where now they cannot", as well as supporting the fight against AIDS in Africa.About the allegations of abuse at Guantanamo, which McClellan has previously called isolated incidents, he said, "We hold people accountable when there is abuse. We take steps to prevent it from happening again, and we do so in a very public way for the world to see that we lead by example, and that we do have values that we hold very dearly and believe in."On May 31, U.S. President George W. Bush dismissed the human rights report as "absurd" for its harsh criticism of U.S. treatment of terrorist suspects at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, saying the allegations were made by prisoners "who hate America."  "It's an absurd allegation. The United States is a country that promotes freedom around the world," Bush said of the Amnesty International report.William F. Schulz, executive director of Amnesty International USA, defended the report, saying, "What is 'absurd' is President Bush's attempt to deny the deliberate policies of his administration." and "What is 'absurd' and indeed outrageous is the Bush administration's failure to undertake a full independent investigation". Irene Khan also responded saying, "The administration's response has been that our report is absurd, that our allegations have no basis, and our answer is very simple: if that is so, open up these detention centres, allow us and others to visit them."And, on Friday, the U.S. military released the results of their investigation and confirmed that in 5 separate incidents, American guards at the Guantánamo Bay prison "mishandled" the Islamic holy book. However, they stress that guards were usually "respectful" of the Qur'an. One incident involved splashing a Koran with urine by urinating near an air vent while others involved kicking, stepping on and writing in Qur'ans.Brigadier-General Jay Hood, the commander of the jail, looked into the allegations, published and then retracted by Newsweek, that American personnel flushed a Qur'an down a toilet. He said that the inquiry did not find any evidence supporting this particular allegation. "The inquiry found no credible evidence that a member of the Joint Task Force at Guantanamo Bay ever flushed a Qur'an down a toilet. This matter is considered closed."President George W. Bush ordered Jose Padilla, detained by the US Military as an alleged terrorist, to be transferred out of military custody in order to face trial in a federal criminal court. He is charged with conspiracy to commit murder, kidnapping, aiding terrorist groups and other acts against US nationals outside the United States. These actions come six days ahead of a decision by the US Supreme Court on whether it should review the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeal's ruling that the president is authorised to hold Padilla as an "Enemy Combatant" without charge. Jose Padilla, a US citizen born in Brooklyn, has been held without charge in a military brig at a US Navy detention facility in South Carolina for the three-and-a-half years since his arrest in 2002. The administration had at the time alleged that Padilla was plotting to detonate a Radioactive "dirty" bomb in the US and later, Deputy Attorney General James Comey alleged that he was involved in plots to blow up Hotels and high-rise buildings[1]. The present indictment does not include any charges over these allegations. Instead, Padilla is charged with travelling abroad to train in "violent Jihad", providing material support to terrorists by sending money, physical assets, and new recruits to Jihadi groups, and conspiring to murder individuals overseas[2]. The change in custody restores to Padilla a number of rights he had been denied when the administration designated him as an "Enemy Combatant", including the right to access federal courts and be defended by an attorney. That constitutionality of detaining suspects without charge under this designation has been challenged in court, on behalf of Padilla and in September, a 3-judge panel of the 4th US Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the government's powers to detain Padilla. The Supreme Court was set to decide on whether it will review that decision next week. Padilla's status, for the purpose of this trial, is that of an ordinary criminal indictee, possessing the legal rights conferred on him by the US Bill of Rights.States "rights" battle unfolding.In an address to the nation on Thursday, President Bush laid out a sweeping set of initiatives to aid the rebuilding effort of the gulf region and called for an investigation into what went wrong in the disaster and how better to respond in the future.Following a list of economic stimulus programs designed to aid small businesses and individuals, the president called for something sure to draw fierce debate, a broadening of Federal power to declare martial law."It is now clear that a challenge on this scale requires greater federal authority and a broader role for the armed forces – the institution of our government most capable of massive logistical operations on a moment’s notice."This follows on the heels of the Bush administration's failed effort to have Louisiana governor Kathleen Blanco sign documents allowing Bush to invoke the Insurrection Act during the height of the crisis in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.Current law prevents regular military troops from law enforcement except in the case of insurrection against the state if that state has lost the ability to maintain order. Loosening of this restriction, and whatever else is contemplated in the president's statement, would mean a fundamental shift in the current  balance of power between the Federal and State governments.United States President George W. Bush deployed the 3rd Infantry Division's 1st Brigade Combat Team to a new role on United States soil last Wednesday, training for dealing with national crises.  Critics claim that act of the Executive Branch violates the Posse Comitatus Act, which prohibits military participation in domestic matters.In 2007, the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act was introduced; it overturned the Posse Comitatus Act by allowing the Commander in Chief to suppress 'insurrection' and 'restore order'. When it was repealed in 2008, Bush stated that he did not respect the later repeal.The combat team, renamed CCMRF (C-hemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and high-yield explosive C-onsequence M-anagement R-esponse F-orces), has been assigned for year-long duty and training at Fort Stewart to prepare them for "civil unrest and crowd control or to deal with potentially horrific scenarios" such as security or natural disasters. After a year, a new unit will take its place.CCMRF will be under the control of the Northern Command (NORTHCOM), and now has the same legal authority as a unit deployed to Iraq under the direct control of the Executive Branch. The unit will have use of engineer and medical units, the Marine Corps Chemical, Biological Initial Reaction Force, and a Navy weather team, as well as members of the Defense Logistics Agency and the Defense Threat Reduction Agency. A spokeswoman for NORTHCOM added that both wheeled and tank vehicles would be available for the CCMRF. In July the unit was assigned a new commander, Col. Roger Cloutier. "If we go in," he said proudly of the deployment, "we’re going in to help American citizens on American soil". CCMRF will be training in both traffic and riot control equipment, and will be the first to use the Army's new nonlethal package, which is intended for war-zone and not domestic use.  NORTHCOM's September 30th statement includes a quote attributed to "future operations division chief" Colonel Michael Boatner saying, “This response force will not be called upon to help with law enforcement, civil disturbance or crowd control, but will be used to support lead agencies involved in saving lives, relieving suffering and meeting the needs of communities affected by weapons of mass destruction attacks, accidents or even natural disasters.” The action has raised concerns for some citizens like journalist Naomi Wolf, an author critical of the Bush administration, who referred to the deployment as a 'coup' in a well-circulated viral video and issued Americans a call to action.NORTHCOM is a joint command established post-9/11 to provide command and control for federal homeland defense efforts and coordinate defense support of civil authorities. When Hurricane Katrina damaged Mississippi and Louisiana, several active-duty units were pulled from various posts and mobilized to those areas, but were not assigned to NORTHCOM, but instead individual commands under provisional authorities.   Military officials have not yet responded to a request for comment.President Bush has asked Congress to discuss the option of allowing him to deploy military resources if avian flu breaks out in America."I'm concerned about what an avian flu outbreak could mean for the United States and the world," said the president in a conference today.  The president also expressed concern that local response would be slow, given the precedent provided by the recent gulf coast hurricane disasters, the aftermath of which has triggered widespread criticism for what many view as instances of long-delayed and inadequate delivery on the part of the white house and congress.  "I want there to be a robust discussion about the best way for the federal government, in certain extreme circumstances, to be able to rally assets for the good of the people," the President said previously.Avian flu is not currently able to easily pass from human to human, limiting epidemics.  The president and others warn that the virus may mutate into a form that more easily spreads through social contact.President George W. Bush today nominated Harriet Ellan Miers to replace Sandra Day O'Connor as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, who announced her retirement intentions July 1, 2005.Bush originally nominated John G. Roberts, Jr. to replace O'Connor, but following the death of Chief Justice William Rehnquist, Roberts was renominated and confirmed as Chief Justice of the United States.Bush's nomination was not totally unexpected because senators from both political parties reportedly suggested her as a potential nominee, and because she had lead Bush's search team for his second nominee. That mirrors Dick Cheney's selection as Bush's Vice Presidential candidate in 2000 after Cheney led the search team for that post. Miers attended Southern Methodist University. She earned a bachelor's degree in mathematics, and a law degree. She was in private law practice from 1972 to 1999, served one term as a member of the Dallas City Council, and as Chair of the Texas Lottery Commission. Since Bush's 2000 election she served in a variety of roles in his administration, and is currently White House Counsel.Some critics have opposed Miers' nomination, noting that she has never served as a jurist or argued a case before the Supreme Court. The White House in response noted that neither the late judge William Rehnquist nor 35 other past Supreme Court nominees had judicial experience before being named to the Court. It also noted that 10 of the last 34 justices appointed since 1933 were appointed directly from positions within the respective sitting presidents' administrations.Senate hearings on the nomination are been scheduled for Thursday, Oct. 6, 2005 at 2:30pmChief Justice Roberts was confirmed with 78 to 22 favorable vote. In recent decades confirmation hearings have been more contentious because politicians have attempted to maintain a perception of balance on the court. While Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg was confirmed easily in 1993 following a 96 to 3 vote, Justice Clarence Thomas was confirmed by a 52 to 48 vote — largely along party lines.The website justicemiers.com, which is running banner ads supporting the nominee, was registered September 29th, 2005 to Progress for America. The registration was made several days before the nomination was announced. According to SourceWatch, Progress for America is a non-profit organization closely associated with the Bush administration.File:HouseofRepsSchiavo3.jpgPresident Bush approved a historic bill designed to keep brain-damaged Terri Schiavo on life-support, shortly after it was sent to him by the US House of Representatives."Today, I signed into law a bill that will allow federal courts to hear a claim by or on behalf of Terri Schiavo for violation of her rights relating to the withholding or withdrawal of food, fluids, or medical treatment necessary to sustain her life," said Bush's written statement.Bush waited at the White House for the bill's arrival and signed it into law after returning early from a vacation at his Texas ranch.The House passed the bill by a vote of 203–58 shortly after midnight in a rare Sunday session called at 9pm that night. Democrats objected to a call for unanimous consent earlier in the day. Although most members had left for the Easter break, 261 of the 435 House members returned for the vote.Representatives debated the measure in the House from both sides.Rep. James Sensenbrenner, a Wisconsin Republican, said of previous rulings in Florida that they were "enforcing a merciless directive to deprive Terri Schiavo of her right to life." He continued that the House should "reinforce the law's commitment to justice and compassion for all Americans, particularly the most vulnerable."Democrat Robert Wexler of Florida disagreed, saying "Tonight this Congress is about to commit a travesty. Tonight congressional leaders are poised to appoint this Congress as a judge and a jury."The US Senate had passed the bill by unanimous consent earlier in the day.Terri Schiavo has been on life-support for over 15 years, and is currently cared for at a Florida hospice. She is considered by physicians to be in a "permanent vegetative state", while her parents contend that she is viable and that there is hope for recovery. Schiavo's feeding tube was removed on Friday after Florida courts ruled in favor of her husband, Michael Schiavo, who acts as her legal guardian in the matter. Terri Schiavo's siblings, and her parents, Bob and Mary Schindler, challenge this decision."We are very very thankful to have crossed this bridge," said Suzanne Vitadamo, Terri Schiavo's sister. "We are hopeful, we are very hopeful, that the federal courts will follow the will of Congress and save my sister's life."U.S. President George W. Bush has used the first veto of his presidency on a bill for federal funding of scientific research which uses embryonic stem cells. The bill aimed to increase the number of stem cells lines in federally funded science. Despite the veto, the destruction of embryos to extract stem cells will still take place in scientific research; the research will simply not be funded by the federal government. It is illegal in the United States to create (through conception) embryos for the purpose of scientific research.The bill had passed in the Senate 63-37, four votes short of a 2/3 majority needed to override the President's veto. The bill will go back to the House and Senate.Bush had previously announced that he would veto this bill.Bush described it as a step that would cross a "moral line". "This bill would support the taking of innocent human life," Mr. Bush said at the White House while surrounded by parents and children that were born as part of an embryo-adoption programme. "Each of these human embryos is a unique human life with inherent dignity and matchless value. These boys and girls are not spare parts."Nancy Pelosi, House minority leader, said "the veto amounted to saying 'no' to hope. It is up to members of Congress to represent their constituents and vote to override the veto." Many high-profile organizations — such as the Christopher Reeve Foundation and the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson's Research — were actively advocating the passage of the bill.Update:Thursday, July 20, 2006 The U.S. House of Representatives failed to override Bush's veto. The final vote was 235-193, which was 51 short of the 2/3 majority needed for a veto override.Barbara Bush, daughter of U.S. President George W. Bush had her purse stolen while on a two-week trip in Argentina.Unnamed law enforcement officials told news agencies that the 24-year old Miss Bush was "not in the immediate proximity" of her purse when it was stolen. Her cell phone was among the items stolen. According to the source, "at no point were the protectees out of visual contact and at no point was there any risk of harm."Miss Bush was having dinner in the San Telmo neighborhood of Buenos Aires during her first night there when the incident occurred. According to the reports, Secret Service agents guarding Miss Bush failed to notice the theft. According to additional unnamed law enforcement sources, an agent member of Miss Bush's advance party Secret Service  was badly beaten during an "altercation" on his personal time, which the agent reported as an attempted mugging. The agent's condition is fine. A Bush administration official confirmed that  "a theft incident" involving Barbara Bush had occurred, but declined details. The Secret Service, which is charged with the protecting the First Family's personal security, declined comment, as did the White House, and the First Lady's office. There have been recent reports that Miss Bush has been living and working in Panama as an intern for UNICEF.The Kuala Lumpur War Crimes Tribunal in Malaysia has found former President of the United States George W. Bush and seven prominent former colleagues guilty of war crimes. Though the tribunal has no authority to detain the convicted or enforce its verdict, it recommended payment of reparations to detainees from Guantanamo Bay and Abu Ghraib who testified before the court, and recommended they take the matter to a suitable court for enforcement.While largely symbolic, the tribunal plans to submit its findings to the International Criminal Court and the United Nations Security Council. In addition to Bush, the court also found complicit his Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, Alberto Gonzales, David Addington, William Haynes, Jay Bybee, and John Yoo. Legal advisors for Bush, Cheney, and Rumsfeld were also convicted.The court heard Iraqi engineer Abbas Abid testify about removal of his fingernails by pliers. Ali Shalal recalled being made to stand on a box whilst hooded, with wires attached to him, and whilst hanging from a wall. Mozzam Begg explained how he was beaten, and Jameelah Hameedi described being stripped, and being used as a human shield. Witnesses described lasting effects.Armed police and officials entered the Central Kalahari Game Reserve on September 12, giving the Bushmen there ten days to leave. Some Bushmen are reported to have fled into the Reserve and are evading capture.In 1996 the central government of Botswana adopted a policy of evicting the Bushmen from the Central Game Reserve, an area originally set aside for them to inhabit. A constitutional amendment is also pending in Parliament to revoke the right of Bushmen to live in the Reserve in perpetuity. The government has expressed concern with several issues surrounding their continued presence in the reserve, including the need to supply them with water, the expense of educating them and providing them with health care, and their effect on the animals in the Reserve.  They also say that it is in the Bushmen's best interest to join civilized society.Critics of the relocation, including the groups Survival International and Botswanian Centre for Human Rights, allege very different motivations. Some believe that the government is moving the Bushmen out of the region to encourage tourism and diamond mining.  Others argue that the government is acting out of compassion, but is making the wrong choice; they say that the Bushmen should be left to their hunter-gatherer ways, and that attempting to integrate them into modern Botswania will destroy their identity.  They also state that the resettlement camps they are placed in are in bad condition, with rampant alcoholism and prostitution.A court case has been in progress for three years against the government for moving them out of the Reserve, and is currently being heard. In August 2005 the United Nations urged Botswana to work with the Bushman to settle the dispute.  It is estimated that some 250 Bushmen remain in the Reserve, having evaded eviction or infiltrated back after having been removed.At press time, there were six days left on the government's ultimatum.A businessman implicated in a serial murder case in India which has been dubbed the "house of horrors" has been cleared on appeal of abducting, raping, and murdering fourteen-year-old Rimpa Haldar.  He had been sentenced to death along with his servant.The Allahabad High Court in Uttar Pradesh ruled that there was no evidence to link Moninder Singh Pandher to the girl's remains, which were among those of nineteen young women and girls recovered from bags near his house.  Servant Surinder Koli's conviction was upheld as was his sentence.  Both still have eighteen more cases yet to go before the courts and remain imprisoned.The police handling of the case has sparked controversy. Some local residents claimed that up to forty abductions had been reported to the police but they had failed to act because of the poor backgrounds the girls came from. Police have also been accused of incompetence, with three officers suspended and at least three more sacked over these allegations. Haldar's family intend to appeal, according to their lawyer. "The CBI [Central Bureau of Investigation] had made this case so hollow, so bad, that no evidence was collected," said lawyer Khalid Khan. Victims' families had previously accused the authorities of soft treatment of the accused businessman. The Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over the case from police on the basis of the controversy.Pandher was represented by former Chief Justice of New Delhi R.S. Sodhi, who pointed out that the defendant had been away to Australia on a business trip at the time of Haldar's abduction, rape and murder. "This is one case where the public wanted Pandher's blood and flesh. And for me it was the biggest challenge to get him out of this case. If his capital punishment would have been there, justice would have been defeated," he told reporters.Xinhua quoted an anonymous senior police officer as saying that "Though the CBI informed the court that Pandher was in Australia when Halder was murdered, many may find it unbelievable that the owner of the house was not aware of what was going on in his premises." He also refused to speculate further, defering to an appeal to a higher court.President Bush is lobbying the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which is scheduled for a vote Wednesday night. The U.S. Senate passed the treaty in June.Similar to the existing North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) among the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, CAFTA would create a free trade zone putting an end to most trade barriers between the United States and six additional countries, including Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic.The free trade agreement faces stiff opposition among Democrats. Many Republicans who represent agricultural Corn Belt or industrial Rust Belt and southern textile states in Congress also have stated opposition to the bill. But with a Republican majority in the House large enough to ensure passage of CAFTA, party leaders are trying to shore up enough votes to ensure CAFTA's passage.This has prompted last minute action by the President to lobby individual members of the House, reminding them that Central American countries have committed troops and other resources to fight the U.S. War on Terror. Other Republican leaders have been using the party's traditional pro-business message and linking it to homeland security issues."Trade creates jobs and lifts people out of poverty and there's nothing like a stable society to fight terrorism and strengthen democracy, freedom and rule of law," Dennis Hastert, Speaker of the House, reportedly said at a news conference Tuesday. But the opposition disagrees. CAFTA is "a bad deal for Central Americans and also for Latinos in this community... (with CAFTA) the exploitation of workers will continue in Central America," Democrat Representative Hilda Solis of Los Angeles said. Her views are common among Democrats, who are overwhelmingly against the treaty.According to opponents of CAFTA, the current trend of American jobs being sent to foreign countries, particularly in the information technology sector, would greatly expand under the treaty."This will be a vote in the middle of the night. They'll keep the vote open for several hours, in violation of the rules. If it passes, it will be by fewer than five votes," predicted Rep. Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from Ohio, according to a Washington Post report.Al Jazeera journalists Canadian Mohamed Fahmy, Egyptian Baher Mohamed, and Australian Peter Greste were sentenced yesterday to three years in prison by judge Hassan Farid following a retrial of the 2013 case in Cairo.The three men were accused of and charged with aiding banned Egyptian organization the Muslim Brotherhood, broadcasting false information, and operating without a press license within Egypt. Fahmy and Mohamed were present at the courtroom in Cairo's Tora Prison, while Greste was deported to Australia in February following an overturned conviction, and as a result was tried in absentia after an ordered re-trial. Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs Julie Bishop has commented on the court's decision, saying she would use all diplomatic means available with the Egyptian minister of foreign affairs to clear Grestse's name. Al Jazeera continue to deny the accusations."The situation is a challenge to journalism as a whole. If this stands unchallenged, this formula will be repeated elsewhere. Journalists should not be imprisoned for doing their jobs. Journalism is not a crime", stated Al Jazeera online.  They indicated intent to appeal the verdict to the Court of Cassation.Peter Greste tweeted on the verdict: "Shocked. Outraged. Angry. Upset. None of them convey how I feel right now. 3 yr sentences for @bahrooz, @MFFahmy11 and me is so wrong."Calgary, Alberta and the southern Alberta city of Lethbridge became the eighth and ninth cities in Canada to ban smoking in bars and restaurants.On October 18, 2006, Calgary City Council approved of the bylaw that bans smoking in public areas.Exemptions were put in place for bingos, casinos, and establishments with smoking rooms until January 1, 2008. First time offenders will pay $200 in fines. A city bylaw boss said people who deliberately go against the law could pay $3,500 or more."Obviously, I am ecstatic about it," said Robyn Hauck back in October, who is an anti-smoking activist. "For us to be going smoke free Jan. 1, with a few exceptions, I couldn't be happier."However, the smoking ban which came into effect on New Years Day didn't have much effect on some smokers."I don't ever tell anyone else how to live so they [the politicians] shouldn't tell me how to live," said resident Doug Baum, who was surprised that he could still light up at the local pub. "Pubs like this one are the last places you can still go to have a smoke and enjoy yourself."Another bar allowed customers to smoke."Absolutely we'll keep smoking because it's not fair the exemptions make it discriminatory," said Chris Daskas, who owns Filo's Restaurant.Two police officers are now on administrative leave after an incident in which they used pepper spray on protesters at U.S. University of California, Davis. The students were protesting in support of the Occupy Wall Street movement, and expressing support for University of California, Berkeley protesters who police used batons against on November 9.The incident was videoed and distributed  on YouTube and social networking websites including Facebook and Twitter. The footage shows a police officer spraying numerous students sat alongside each other on the ground at close range while walking past them. The video also displays officers detaining students as members of the crowd repeatedly shout the words "shame on you".According to CBS News, ten individuals were arrested by police at the scene. Nine students that were sprayed were given medical treatment at the location; Two were hospitalised, but later released.Linda P.B. Katehi, university chancellor, has accepted "full responsibility for the incident" and has launched an investigation. She described the use of such methods as "chilling"; the video displays, "sad and really very inappropriate" enforcement and the incident has prompted "many questions about how best to handle situations like this".Meanwhile, the Davis Faculty Association, representing academic staff, condemned the actions taken by the University of California, calling the actions of the police officers "unprovoked, disproportional and excessive". The association statement requested the chancellor of the university resign for what they called a "gross failure of leadership". Katehi has refused to resign, believing that she had not "violated the policies of the institution". She also stated: "I have worked personally very hard to make the campus a safe campus for all."Charles J. Kelly, who used to work as a lieutenant for Baltimore Police Department, defended the actions of the police officers as-seen in the video, calling it to be "fairly standard police procedure". Kelly explained that the use of pepper spray is preferable to physical force in such situations, as opposed to attempting to lift up protesters. "When you start picking up human bodies, you risk hurting them," explained Kelly. "Bodies don't have handles on them."University of California, Davis Police Chief Annette Spicuzza also defended the officers' actions, claiming "[t]he students had encircled the officers". They "needed to exit" and "were looking to leave but were unable to get out".Yesterday, a settlement agreement was filed in court that effectively brings to an end a two-year-old law banning many election-related activities by corporations in a north-western county of California.  The County of Humboldt and Pacific Legal Defense Foundation agreed to a settlement declaring a law banning corporate political contributions, Measure T, null and void. If approved by a US District Court judge, this will end the lawsuit against the County that stems from allegations that the law, if enforced, is a violation of the 1st and 14th Amendments of the US Constitution. In California, the voters have the ability to propose laws at general elections subject to certain restrictions. In 2006, a group called Democracy Unlimited (DU) sponsored a ban on political contributions from non local corporations. DU was able to acquire the signatures necessary to qualify the measure and it was listed on the ballot as Measure T. Despite it qualifying for the ballot, many individuals campaigned against it. They argued that it was unconstitutional. Opponents pointed out that in order for a corporation to be considered local, everything about it must be based in Humboldt County. However, unions, which tend to be corporations, only needed one member in the County. Opponents drew upon the 1st and 14th Amendments to support their contentions, arguing that since corporations have been held as persons, the measure infringes on free speech, and that since the measure gives preference to some corporations and not others, it violates the Equal Rights provisions of the 14th Amendment. Notwithstanding these arguments, the measure was passed easily at the polls. Earlier this year, the Pacific Legal Foundation sued the County on the behalf of Mercer-Fraser and O&M, two companies that did business locally, but did not meet the local corporation standard. The lawsuit sought a preliminary injunction against enforcement on the grounds that it was most likely unconstitutional. Judge Susan Illston granted the motion for an injunction in September, agreeing with the plaintiffs that the measure as written was most likely a violation of the 1st and 14th Amendments. According to county officials, this settlement was prompted by an assessment of the merits of continuing litigation and the costs that such litigation would entail. The settlement would declare Measure T null and void and unconstitutional. Additionally, the County would be required to pay $44,000 in legal fees to Pacific Legal Foundation. Supporters of Measure T expressed disappointment accusing the county of caving to corporate pressure and not utilizing available resources. County officials have stated that the only reason why they fought the suit was because the measure was a voter initiative, that the costs of litigation would be high, and the end result would most likely remain the same.Yesterday in California's Riverside County criminal court, Judge Bernard Schwartz sentenced David and Louise Turpin to life in prison for torturing all but the youngest of their thirteen children.As revealed at trial, the Turpins had kept their children indoors for years and rarely allowed them outside the family home, located 70 miles (112 km) south of Los Angeles. The children were banned from washing more often than once a year and could not use the toilet. They were severely malnourished, to the point that some of those who are now adults were initially mistaken for children. The oldest of the Turpin's offspring, age 29, weighed 82 pounds (37 kg).  Another brother, 22, was still chained to a bed when found. None of the twelve had ever received any sort of dental care.The judge presiding over the case, Bernard Schwartz, said, "You have severed the ability to interact and raise your children that you have created and brought into this world." Schwartz went on to say he was not giving them the longest possible sentence because they had "accepted responsibility at an early stage in the proceeding" by pleading guilty to fourteen felony charges each and "spared your children having to relive the humiliation and the harm they endured in that house of horrors." Specifically, both parents faced twelve counts of torture and false imprisonment, nine counts of child abuse, and seven counts of cruelty to a dependent adult.  David Turpin, alone, was also charged with making false statements for the purpose of obtaining a home schooling license.The father said "I love my children and I believe my children love me."The mother said "I really look forward to the day I can see them, hug them and tell them I'm sorry."One of the children said, "Sometimes I still have nightmares of things that had happened such as my siblings being chained up or getting beaten." However, this person also said that they still love their parents and had partially forgiven them.One of them even went as far to say, "Although it may not have been the best way of raising us, I am glad that they did because it made me the person I am today."The two parents were arrested in January of last year after one of their daughters, aged 17, escaped and phoned 911 (the emergency telephone number in the United States). She did not know what address her house was or know the date and said some of her siblings were chained into their beds.The Turpins are scheduled to be eligible for parole in 25 years.Judge James A. Stoelker of Santa Clara County, California Superior Court was disqualified from hearing a case on predatory lending practices the day before Christmas, on a technicality.  The case was filed by David and Salma Merritt of Santa Clara County against multiple defendants, including Countrywide, Bank of America, and First American Title, among others.The Merritts had challenged Judge Stoelker's involvement in the case, claiming many of his rulings had favored his former clients even when law would have indicated otherwise.  Some of the defendants are Judge Stoelker's former clients.The events leading to this case began in 2006 when the Merritts accepted a home loan from Countrywide.  At that time, Countrywide was advertising 30-year mortgages at between 1 and 3 percent interest.  The Merritts received a "good faith estimate" consistent with those advertisements.  They claim that Countrywide representatives tricked them into signing loan documents that were subsequently altered to appear to commit them to an obligation they had not agreed to.  A review of similar predatory lending cases filed by individuals in California found that all had been settled in at most 9 months, usually in favor of the banks.  Merritt v. Mozilo has continued in the courts for much longer, celebrating its third anniversary last Saturday.  The Merritts' claims are consistent with published statements by Eileen Foster, former Executive Vice President of Fraud Risk Management at Countrywide, that fraud was endemic to certain parts of Countrywide.  Theirs was the only case heard in Department 9 that morning in recognition of Christmas.  That hearing was scheduled, because the Sixth District of the California Court of Appeals (case number H038883) required the Santa Clara County Superior Court to (a) give all parties an opportunity to be heard regarding the possible disqualification of Judge Stoelker and (b) reply to the appellate court by December 26.  This appellate ruling was only issued on November 26, and Judge Mark H. Pierce did not schedule the required hearing until December 12.  The notice for this hearing required parties to file responses ten days before, which meant that the parties only had two days to prepare their replies.  On August 16, the Merritts learned Judge Stoelker had represented defendants in this case on numerous occasions before he was appointed to the bench in December 2010 and had not disclosed this fact to the Merritts.  The next day they filed a Verified Statement of Disqualification asking Stoekler to recuse himself.  The California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) 170.3(c)(3) and (4) [confirmed in the 1988 appellate decision in Lewis v. Superior Court] give a judge ten days to respond to to such a motion.  Stoelker replied on the eleventh day.  "All Rise" was heard at 9:04 AM local time Monday morning, whereupon Judge Pierce entered the courtroom.  Attending by phone were attorneys James Goldberg representing Bank of America and Brian Craft representing First American Title.  David Merritt was present representing himself.  Goldberg had filed a brief asserting that the Merritts' Verified Statement of Disqualification was served upon Judge Stoelker on August 17 but was not filed, as witnessed by the fact that it was not listed on the docket.  Judge Pierce reported that he had checked the files and found that this Statement had indeed been filed, and he didn't know why it was not on the docket.  Attorney Goldberg suggested that the fact that the Statement was not on the docket may have contributed to Judge Stoelker's failure to respond within the ten day limit.  Judge Pierce replied, "That's a stretch." Attorney Craft asked about next steps, since all action in this case had been stayed by the appellate court pending resolution of this issue.  Judge Pierce then replied that Judge Manoukian would be handling discovery in this case, replacing Judge Stoelker in that capacity.  He further stated that a reply to the appellate court had been prepared concurring with the appellate court's disqualification of Judge Stoelker and asked Mr. Merritt to retrieve that order from the clerk in the courtroom  and file it as usual with the clerk's office.  He also noted that this action would lift the stay.  Other actions in this case could now proceed with the next steps being scheduled January 22, 2013, or later.   This is the second appellate reversal of decisions by this superior court in this case.  The first reversal came on December 19, 2011, when the appellate court reinstated Wells Fargo as a defendant.Dr. Conrad Murray, the doctor of the deceased singer Michael Jackson, has been given a four year prison sentence by a judge in the US city of Los Angeles, California, based on a charge of involuntary manslaughter, the maximum sentence he could receive for this offense. Steve Whitmore, a spokesperson for Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, told CBS News that Assembly Bill 109 would automatically halve the sentence to two years.In November of this year, after a six week trial, a jury found Murray guilty of providing Jackson with an excessive amount of propofol, which caused his death in 2009. Judge Michael Pastor condemned Dr. Murray's actions, calling his behavior a "continuous pattern of lies and deceit" and him a "danger to the community", having committed a "horrific violation of trust". Murray may also lose his medical license.In the aftermath of the sentencing, Katherine Jackson, the mother of Michael Jackson, told KTLA: "Four years is not enough for someone's life. It won't bring him back but at least he got the maximum." Jackson expressed thanks to the prosecutors and the judge, calling the latter "very, very fair". Meanwhile, Jermaine Jackson, Michael Jackson's brother, said "[o]ne hundred years is not enough".The defense had requested probation as Murray already faced "a lifetime sentence of self-punishment" and life-long reputation as "the man who killed Michael Jackson". The judge refused to allow probation, saying it wasn't justified by Murray's actions.A California jury in a Humboldt County courthouse ordered nursing home operator Skilled Healthcare (SH) to pay $671 million (about €531 million) in a class action lawsuit from patients of SH's 22 California facilities and their families. The jury found that SH failed to properly staff its facilities to comply with California state law.The jury has not heard the case for punitive damages; however, it awarded the plaintiffs $613 million (about €484 million) in statutory damages. The remaining $58 million (about €46 million) was in restitution.After the verdict was issued, Skilled Healthcare stocks plunged over 75% to a record low.An official statement from SH says it "strongly disagrees" with the jury's verdict. SH plans on filing an appeal to the decision. The company could possibly face bankruptcy because of this verdict.One of the lawyers for the nearly 32,000 plaintiffs, Timothy Needham, claimed that inadequate staffing levels put SH's patients at risk. He said, "The company knows that this lack of staffing causes a higher risk of problems for patients. Call lights don't get answered, persons don't get proper hygiene, persons don't get their medications on time or the care they need." This lawsuit does not apply to SH's facilities in Arizona, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, and Texas.A measure to ban the use of lead bullets in California was moved forward by the State's Senate yesterday. Assembly Bill 821 bans the use of lead bullets for hunting within California. The bill, which was sponsored by Assemblyman Pete Nava and has letters of support from a number of conservation and environmental groups, was passed by a majority of 23 to 15.Bill proponents argued that an important reason to support the ban rests in the threat lead bullets pose to endangered species such as the California condor."I am elated that the fight to save the condor, North America’s largest bird, is one step closer to reality," stated Nava.  "The California Condor is a national treasure and with the recent death of a California condor at the Los Angeles Zoo last week from lead poisoning, further highlights the urgent need for my legislation so that our children and grandchildren can know and see these magnificent birds in the wild," added Nava.Bill opponents, primarily groups that support hunting and the right to bear arms, argued that lead bullets were not a significant source of the threat to California condors. A statement posted on the web site of the National Rifle Association states, "the most recent scientific review provided to the Commission revealed that previous science attempting to show a link between lead ammunition and condor mortality is severely flawed."Scientists at the Zoological Society of San Diego, an organization that has worked to reproduce condors and place them back in the wild since the 1980's state that there is strong evidence to support the effect of lead bullets on California condor populations. "All of the California condors which die in the wild are brought to us to determine the cause of death," stated Allison Alberts, Director of Conservation and Research for the Zoological Society of San Diego. "Of these condors, 24% have died of lead poisoning. Studies indicate that this lead is coming from bullet fragments and shot that have been ingested when eating carcasses," added Alberts.An article published by Bird Conservation International cites the ingestion of trash picked up from the environment as another serious threat to condor populations. This study indicates the threat is primarily for juvenile condors in the nest however.Raymond Lee Oyler of California, United States has been convicted of the murders of five US Forest Service firefighters killed while attempting to control a wildfire he had lit.Oyler, 38, set the Esperanza Fire out of anger his dog had been impounded, according to prosecutors. The October 2006 blaze destroyed 34 houses and 20 outbuildings, scorching over 17,400 hectares. Prosecutors said he was "bent on destruction".Prosecutors also alleged Oyler started the fire at night specifically to leave firefighters "on their own" without aerial support. He was identified as the arsonist behind the fire after a security camera saw his car several times and samples taken from the scene matched those found in his girlfriend's house. Oyler, an unemployed car mechanic, was also identified by the owner of a local petrol station as having stood in a car park and watched the fire's spread.The five firefighters that were killed died when their truck was overrun by the flames. Oyler was convicted of murdering them on Friday March 6 after a six-week trial in Riverside California. The twelve-member jury took nearly a week of deliberation before returning the guilty verdict, and will meet to hear arguments regarding Oyler's sentence on Tuesday. He may face the death penalty.His defense had admitted Oyler likely started several fires in the Riverside County area, but denied he had started the one that killed the firefighters.A Long Beach, California man was shot today by Long Beach police. Police allege that the man lunged at police who returned fire and killed the man.Two police officers are reported to have been attending another call in the area when they noticed a man bleeding from his head and wielding a knife. The man did not listen to police orders to drop down and unsuccessfully tried to subdue him with a Taser stun gun. As the man lunged at the officers with a knife, both fired several rounds at him, killing him.Republican Assemblyman Ray Haynes claimed that a proposal before the Assembly Judiciary Committee would strengthen the intent of a ballot measure that prevents the recognition of gay marriages performed out of State.  The amendment was rejected.The Senate Judiciary Committee rejected an identical measure just hours later.However, Conservative groups say that they plan to put an initiative on the ballot in 2006 banning gay marriage in the constitution.The California Department of Justice on Wednesday released the warrant and affidavit of a criminal investigation of the Wells Fargo bank.  The State of California served the warrant on October 5 to search the San Francisco headquarters of Wells Fargo for felonious activities related to identity theft.The warrant said property to be seized at the bank's San Francisco headquarters was related to the unauthorized creation of accounts by Wells Fargo employees including the names of individuals for the accounts; account information and fees; the names of employees and their managers who created accounts without the consent of the Wells Fargo customers in question; and all communications including emails referencing the unauthorised accounts.California Attorney General Kamala Harris's criminal probe is part of an increasing list of officials nationwide questioning the business practices of Wells Fargo such as California State Treasurer John Chiang who announced a one-year suspension of State investment with the bank on September 28; Illinois State Treasurer Mike Frerichs followed suit with a year-long ban on October 3; and Democratic United States Senators Bob Menendez of New Jersey, Jeff Merkley of Oregon, and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who wrote to the U.S. Security Exchanges Commission (SEC) suggesting investigation on September 29.California Senator Carole Migden has revealed that she is suffering from leukemia and that medication prescribed to her may have contributed to a car accident she caused on May 18. Earlier Migden said that she was driving her state-leased SUV while reaching for her cell phone.The announcement comes when witnesses called police to say that Migden was weaving along Highway 12 in Solano County, California. They also reported that she drove over the center median on several occasions and that after the accident she got out of her car and proceeded to yell, "I'm a senator!." Witnesses say that she "didn't seem all there at the time."According to Migden, doctors diagnosed her with leukemia in 1997, but did not reveal to the public her disease because she did not want "pity" from anyone. Migden also says that back in February, she was pronounced as "disease free."Migden says that she had an unexplained medical event and that her medication claim is not an excuse for her driving."I owe an explanation to the public and myself and, in particular, the person I hurt. I don't have a recollection of what happened. I can only conclude I had a medical event I can't explain. It's not an excuse; it may be an explanation," said Migden.Authorities have stated that they recommended charges of "unsafe driving" be filed against Migden, but that the incident still be investigated.California state senator Carole Migden crashed her state provided SUV into a Honda sedan while reaching for her phone. Migden has favored a new law penalizing drivers who talk on their cellular phones (aka mobile phones).The crash occurred on Highway 12 in Solano County, California Friday morning. The driver of the Honda was taken to a near-by hospital for minor injuries.In 2006, Migden voted to fine drivers a minimum $20 fee for driving while talking on the phone without a hands-free device. The law will not go into effect until July 2008, so she will not receive a fine for using her phone. She said that she has taken full responsibility for the accident.The California Highway Patrol (CHP) is now looking into reports of another accident involving Midgen."We're getting information now from the officers following up this morning that there was a second accident involving the center divider. Witnesses have her driving to the left of the number one lane and brushing against the guardrail," said Marvin Williford, spokesperson for the CHP in the Solano area.A student at Glen A. Wilson High School in Hacienda Heights, California was arrested Friday on suspicion of making criminal threats against students. The student arrested, described as a male minor by Hacienda La Puente Unified School District police, confessed to making threats against students at the high school via a post to the Wikipedia article about the school.The student was arrested on Friday at approximately 11:30 a.m. PDT, according to a statement from Hacienda La Puente Unified School District Department of Police and Safety Chief Al Vasquez made to Pasadena Star-News. The student made "a complete confession", said Superintendent Barbara Nakaoka to the Whittier Daily News. She also said that "Our police officers are continuing to work with the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department to determine the validity of the threat."Sheriff's Lt. Victor Sotelo told the Whittier Daily News that the police filed a "detain petition" which recommends that the minor not be released to his parents, and be held at Juvenile Hall. The California Youth Authority will decide what happens next to the boy. Lt. Sotelo said that law enforcement searched the student's home and recovered evidence.A Wikipedia administrator by the username Dreadstar notified others about the threat in a post to the "Administrators' noticeboard" on Wednesday at 8:58 p.m. PST, saying: "Can someone review this threat to see if any action should be taken?" John Reaves, another Wikipedia administrator, contacted local police in Los Angeles at 9:40 p.m. PST, and was in contact with a detective in order to work with the Internet service provider to find more information on the IP address that made the threat. Los Angeles County sheriff's officials contacted Hacienda La Puente Unified School District police and informed them of a threat made against Glen A. Wilson High School posted to its article on Wikipedia. Two threats were made via posts to the Wikipedia article: an initial post, and a subsequent threat when the first post was removed by a Wikipedia editor. The Los Angeles Times quoted a portion of the threats: "This is a warning. Do not remove this from this page. On Friday, April 18, 2008, there will be a shooting at this school. Current list of victims to be shot on this day: ...", said the initial post. The post named a hit list of specific students, and also said a shooting would affect "a good majority of the badminton team and almost every single fob." The poster threatened: "Take this text down and it will guarantee their death..." While police were in the process of contacting the specific students named in the threat, a second threat was made on Wikipedia: "You removed my last edit. I gave you a fair warning. Now the people listed in my previous edit will be victims in the Glen A. Wilson Shooting to occur this Friday. Your lack of attention to the seriousness of my warning will now be the reason as to why you will receive all fault of this event." The threats were later removed from the edit history of the article by Wikipedia administrator Persian Poet Gal, at 9:08 p.m. PDT on Friday, after the student had been arrested.All students' backpacks were searched before classes began Thursday. At the time Hacienda La Puente Unified School District police told the Pasadena Star-News that the random checks were a precautionary measure related to the upcoming anniversary of the Columbine High School massacre, which took place April 20, 1999. Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold killed 12 students and a teacher and wounded many others in Columbine High School in Colorado before committing suicide.Classes were canceled at the high school on Friday. In a statement to the Los Angeles Times, Chief Al Vasquez explained the decision to close the school: "If I had not thought it was credible, we would not have closed the school. I mean, not one but two threats." Chief Vasquez said that the high school would be open for classes on Monday.After hours of hearing arguments in the case questioning the legality of the ban on same-sex marriages in California, in the United States, the state's Supreme Court deferred ruling on the ban, known as Proposition 8. The court could issue a ruling in the next 90 days.Opponents of the ban were fighting to have the law overturned— saying it was unconstitutional for the state to have banned same-sex marriages. Californians voted in November 2008 to ban same-sex marriages, leaving the nearly 20,000 married same-sex couples wondering if their marriages, which were legal at the time they were married, would be voided."Prop 8 opponents would have the court choose between the inalienable right to marry and the right of the people to change the constitution as they see fit, and what I'm picking up from the oral argument in this case is this court should willy-nilly disregard the will of the people," Justice Joyce Kennard said while addressing Shannon Minter, the lawyer representing the opponents of the ban.One of the petitioners in the case against Proposition 8, Robin Tyler, told Reuters that she thinks "they [the court] are going to uphold our marriages and they are going to uphold Proposition 8, and it's a loss."In June 2008, the state supreme court ruled that the ban was unconstitutional. Between that time, and November 2008, 18,000 same-sex couples were legally married in California. Currently in the United States, same-sex marriages are only legal in Connecticut and Massachusetts.The Supreme Court of California in a 4–3 decision has struck down California's ban on gay marriage. The decision struck down two laws, one from 1977 and another more recent one due to a referendum in 2000. Prior to this case, California allowed extensive benefits to gay couples that were in practice close to those given to heterosexual couples. The case in question consisted of a consolidation of six cases being appealed. Parties included a variety of gay couples and the city of San Francisco which wanted to recognize gay couples.The opinion, written by Chief Justice Ronald M. George, stated that that there was no legitimate basis to discriminate based on sexual preference. Moreover, the court found that the laws were unconstitutional given the protections of the California Constitution. The opinion was also signed by Justices, Kathryn Werdegar, and Carlos Moreno and Justice Joyce Kennard who also wrote an additional concurrence. Justice Marvin Baxter wrote dissent also signed by Justice Ming Chin. Finally, Justice Carol Corrigan wrote a dissent saying that although she personally favored gay marriage the people of California clearly had not and the popular will should not be overruled by the court.Supporters of gay marriage said the ruling was a milestone. "This decision will give Americans the lived experience that ending exclusion from marriage helps families and harms no one," said Evan Wolfson, executive director of Freedom to Marry, who noted that same-sex marriages are now legal in South Africa, Canada, Spain, Belgium and the Netherlands.James Dobson, head of the conservative Christian organization Focus on the Family called the ruling an outrage and called on the people of California to pass a constitutional amendment barring gay marriage saying that "Only then can they protect themselves from this latest example of judicial tyranny."Edward Zelinsky of Yeshiva University, whose work was cited in the brief of California's attorney general supporting the law, characterized the court's opinion as "problematic in important respects." He criticized the court for failing to explain adequately why its logic does not apply to other non-traditional forms of marriage such as polygamy.Since the decision is based upon the California Constitution, it cannot be appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States.Currently in the United States different states have taken different positions. Although a variety of states allow civil unions, at present only Massachusetts has legalized gay marriage. State courts have disagreed as to whether gay couples should be treated like heterosexual couples.On Thursday, the California Supreme Court upheld a ballot measure, Proposition 66, approved by voters last November which speeds up the death penalty appeals process. The court, however, weakened a provision of the proposition setting a deadline for appeals.The plaintiff in the case, former El Dorado County supervisor Ron Briggs, claimed that the proposition was unconstitutional under the California Constitution which prevents ballot measures from addressing more than one subject. The court disagreed with Briggs' claim, writing that "Proposition 66 is more focused on a single subject" than other measures upheld by the court. The weakened portioned of the measure would have set a deadline of five years for the appeals process. The court wrote in its opinion for the case, Briggs v. Brown, that "provisions of Proposition 66 that appear to impose strict deadlines on the resolution of judicial proceedings must be deemed directive rather than mandatory" in order to prevent difficulties with the separation of powers.  The new measure moves habeas corpus review from the Supreme Court to the lower courts. Habeas corpus review allows those convicted to contest procedures from during the trial process, such as possible problems with jurors.  The measure also ended public review of execution methods.  Briggs had also challenged how the proposition affects habeas corpus review, but the court ruled in favor the defendants.Five justices, of the court's seven, signed the majority opinion. Two justices were defendants in the case as part of the Judicial Council and recused themselves, and two alternate justices were brought in from appeals courts in Santa Ana and Sacramento. The council is responsible for making policy for the state's courts. Currently, the appeals process for death penalty cases can last for years or even decades. The ballot measure sought to speed this up. It could affect 15 or more inmates currently sitting on death row who have already completed the appeals process. The state has not conducted any executions since 2006. A federal court imposed a moratorium on the use of California's lethal injection method in 2006 after a challenge to the methods used. This order remains in effect, so the state must first receive approval from the federal court regarding its method before it is allowed to resume executions.   In January a proposal to conduct lethal injection with a single drug was rejected by a state agency.  There were 747 people on California's death row as of Thursday according to the state corrections department.  The state applies the death penalty for several crimes including murder, treason against the state, train wrecking causing death, and perjury causing the execution of another.  Lethal injection is one of two methods used by the state for executing inmates. The gas chamber remains an option for inmates who elect that method of execution. While voters approved Proposition 66 last November with 51% voting yes, another ballot measure to repeal the death penalty, Proposition 62, was rejected by voters in the same election with 53% voting against.An elementary school teacher of 30 years was arrested Monday in Los Angeles, California on the charge of 23 counts listed in the arrest warrant of performing a "lewd act on a child".The bail for Mark Berndt, 61, was raised from $2.3 million, which is $100,000 per count, to $23 million today. The original bail amount had been a mistake, said a spokesperson for the district attorney.Authorities were tipped off by a photographic developer.  The Los Angeles County Sheriff’s office said it had investigated and surveilled the teacher for almost a year before making the arrest.  Capt. Mike Parker said photographic evidence collected from the suspect’s home is alleged to show children blindfolded with cockroaches crawling across their faces or children with a spoonful of liquid substance near their mouths. Parker also said a blue spoon was recovered from trash in the suspect's classroom that "tested positive for semen." Investigators from the special victims unit interviewed over 80 children and staff.  Another ten children in the photographs — besides the 23 listed victims, then 6–10 years old — have not yet been identified. The investigations focused on the years between 2008 and 2010.Berndt was fired from Miramonte Elementary in March 2011 but he had already been separated from students since the Los Angeles Unified School District found out about the investigation earlier that year.A federal judge in San Francisco has ruled that California's Proposition 8, which bans same-sex marriage in the state, violates the Equal Protection Clause and the Due Process Clause of the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution."Plaintiffs challenge Proposition 8 under the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment," wrote U.S. District Chief Judge Vaughn R Walker. "Each challenge is independently meritorious, as Proposition 8 both unconstitutionally burdens the exercise of the fundamental right to marry and creates an irrational classification on the basis of sexual orientation."  Proposition 8, which was passed by California voters by referendum in November 2008, banned same-sex marriage in the state, which had been legal after a California supreme court ruling on May 15, 2008. The proposition's passage did not reverse the marriages of thousands of same-sex couples who had gotten married in the state in the interval.The case, Perry et al. v. Schwarzenegger et al., was heard by Chief Judge Walker. Anticipating a defeat, the pro-Proposition 8 coalition of "defendant-intervenors" filed this morning a "motion for stay pending appeal", asking the court for its ruling to not take effect unless the decision is upheld by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals; both sides in the case say an appeal is inevitable.Speaking for LGBT rights group Lambda Legal, Jennifer C. Pizer said, "In holding that Prop 8 cannot stand because it violates the equal protection and due process rights of California’s lesbian and gay couples, this decision adds to the growing consensus in courts and legislatures across the country that there are no good reasons for excluding same-sex couples from marriage." Courtenay Semel, an actress and LGBT activist, told Wikinews "today marks another day in history! A big win for equal marriage. It's about time that progress is being made towards equality for all."A U.S. Court of Appeals on Friday has declared unconstitutional California Assembly Bills 1792 & 1793, the California "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors.Federal judge Consuelo M. Callahan has ruled that the 2005 statewide ban, which has yet to be enforced, violates minors' rights under the US Constitution's First and 14th amendment because even the most graphic on-screen mayhem, video game content represents free speech that cannot be censored without proper justification. The Court has ruled that there’s no convincing evidence it causes psychological damage to young people. The 3-0 judgment has affirmed an earlier ruling by a U.S. District Court, which barred enforcement of the law on the basis that it was "unduly restrictive" and "used overly broad definitions," and that the state failed to show that the limitations on violent video games would actually protect children.In 2005, Leland Yee (余胤良), a California State Senator (in District 8 which includes the western half of San Francisco and most of San Mateo County), Speaker pro Tempore of the Assembly (D-San Francisco/Daly City),  introduced California Assembly Bills 1792 & 1793 which barred "ultra-violent" video games from minors under the age of eighteen in California and mandated the application of ESRB ratings for video games. "California Assembly Bills 1792 & 1793" were commonly called the "ultraviolent video games bills" or simply "video game ban" bills. Bill 1792 banned the sales of such video games while Bill 1793 required signs explaining the regulations on said games to be placed where such were sold. Both bills were passed by the Assembly and signed by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger into law (AB 1179) on October 7, 2005.Explicitly, these two bills provided that:AB 1792 will place ultra-violent video games into the "matter" portion of the penal code, which criminalizes the sale of said material to a minor.AB 1793 will require retailers to place M-rated games separate from other games intended for children, and will also require retailers to display signage explaining the ESRB rating system.Yee, a former child psychologist has publicly criticized such games as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Manhunt 2, and opposes the U.S. Army's Global Gaming League. On October 17, 2005, before the effectivity of the challenged Act, plaintiffs Video Software Dealers Association, the not-for-profit international trade association dedicated to advancing the interests of the $32 billion home entertainment industry and Entertainment Software Association, a 1994 US trade association of the video game industry have filed lawsuit (D.C. No. CV-05-04188-RMW) against the defendants Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, CA Attorney General, Edmund G. Brown, Santa Clara County District Attorney George Kennedy, City Attorney for the City of San Jose, Richard Doyle, and County Counsel for the County of Santa Clara, Ann Miller Ravel.Plaintiffs' counsel, Jenner & Block's Paul M. Smith has filed a declaratory relief to invalidate the newly-enacted California Civil Code sections 1746-1746.5 (the “Act”), on the grounds that it allegedly violated 42 U.S.C. § 1983 and the First and Fourteenth Amendments.  Plaintiffs have submitted that "the Act unconstitutionally curtailed freedom of expression on its face based on content regulation and the labeling requirement, was unconstitutionally vague, and violated equal protection. California's restrictions could open the door for states to limit minors' access to other material under the guise of protecting children."By December 2005, both bills had been struck down as unconstitutional, by Ronald M. Whyte, District Judge, Presiding in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California in San Jose, thereby preventing either from going into effect on January 1, 2006. Judge Whyte has granted plaintiffs’ motion for a preliminary injunction in "Video Software Dealers Ass’n v. Schwarzenegger," 401 F. Supp. 2d 1034 (N.D. Cal. 2005), and cross-motions for summary judgment, in "Video Software Dealers Ass’n v. Schwarzenegger," No. C-05-04188, slip op. (N.D. Cal. Aug. 6, 2007). Similar bills were subsequently filed in such states as Illinois, Oklahoma, Minnesota, Michigan and Louisiana have been ruled to be unconstitutional by federal courts on First Amendment grounds, according to Sean Bersell, a spokesman for the Entertainment Merchants Association. The defendants, in the instant Case No. 07-16620, have timely appealed the judgment. On October 29, 2008, the appealed case was argued and submitted to the Sacramento, California's U.S. Court of Appeals, hence, the promulgation of the instant 30 pages decision (No. 07-16620; D.C. No. CV-05-04188-RMW) by Alex Kozinski, Chief Judge, Sidney R. Thomas and Consuelo M. Callahan (who wrote the court's opinion), United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit Judges.In the ban’s defense, Deputy Attorney General for the State of California, Zackery Morazzini has contended that "if governments restrict the sale of pornography to minors, it should also create a separate category for ultra-violent video games." Edmund Gerald "Jerry" Brown, Jr., California Attorney General, has also argued that "the Court should analyze the Act’s restrictions under what has been called the 'variable obscenity' or 'obscenity as to minors' standard first mentioned in Ginsberg, 390 U.S. 629. The Court’s reasoning in Ginsberg that a state could prohibit the sale of sexually-explicit material to minors that it could not ban from distribution to adults should be extended to materials containing violence."The "Fallo" or dispositive portion of the judgment in question goes as follows:"We need to help empower parents with the ultimate decision over whether or not their children play in a world of violence and murder," said the law's author, Sen. Leland Yee, announcing he wanted Edmund Gerald "Jerry" Brown, Jr., the current Attorney General and a former governor of the State of California, to appeal the decision to the U.S. Supreme Court. "Letting the industry police itself is like letting kids sign their own report cards and that a self regulating system simply doesn't work. I've always contended that the ... law the governor signed was a good one for protecting children from the harm from playing these ultra-violent video games. I've always felt it would end up in the Supreme Court," Sen. Yee explained. "In fact, the high court recently agreed, in Roper v. Simmons (2005), that we need to treat children differently in the eyes of the law due to brain development," he added.According to Michael D. Gallagher, president of the Entertainment Software Association, plaintiff, the Court's ruling has stressed that parents, with assistance from the industry, are the ones who should control what games their children play. "This is a clear signal that in California and across the country, the reckless pursuit of anti-video game legislation like this is an exercise in wasting taxpayer money, government time and state resources," Gallagher said in a statement.Entertainment Software Association members include Disney Interactive Studios, Electronic Arts, Microsoft Corp, THQ Inc, Sony Computer Entertainment America, and Take-Two Interactive Software, the maker of “Grand Theft Auto” games. Judge Callahan has also reprimanded state lawyers for having failed to show any reasonable alternatives to an outright statewide ban against the ultra-violent video games. "Ratings education, retailer ratings enforcement, and control of game play by parents are the appropriate responses to concerns about video game content," said Bo Andersen, president and chief executive of the Entertainment Merchants Association. Andersen continues, "retailers are committed to assisting parents in assuring that children do not purchase games that are not appropriate for their age. Independent surveys show that retailers are doing a very good job in this area, with an 80 percent enforcement rate, and retailers will continue to work to increase enforcement rates even further; the court has correctly noted that the state cannot simply dismiss these efforts."California was already forced to pay $282,794 to the ESA for attorneys' fees, money that would've helped with the state's current budget difficulties. Andersen has urged California government officials not to appeal the case. "The estimated $283,000 in taxpayer money spent by the state on this case is so far an 'ill-advised, and ultimately doomed, attempt at state-sponsored nannyism.' A voluntary ratings system already exists to avoid the state-sponsored nannyism of a ban," he explained."The governor believes strongly we have a responsibility to our children and our communities to protect against the effects of video games depicting ultra-violent actions,"  said Governor Schwarzenegger spokeswoman Camille Anderson adding the governor was reviewing Friday's decision.Deputy Attorney General Zackery Morazzini, the state's counsel in the appealed case, has stressed that "a law restricting sales of violent games is far more effective than industry self-policing, since the technological controls that the court cited as another alternative can be easily bypassed by any kid with an Internet connection."According to Jim Steyer, Founder of Common Sense Media, a non-profit organization of 750,000 regular users dedicated to improving children’s media lives, researches have shown that playing these violent video games are detrimental for kids mental and physical health. “The health threat involved with kids playing such games is equivalent to smoking cigarettes,” Steyer said. “These violent video games are learning tools for our children and clearly result in more aggressive behavior,” said Randall Hagar, California Psychiatric Association’s Director of Government Affairs.The Federal Trade Commission's data reveals that "nearly 70 percent of thirteen to sixteen year olds are able to purchase M-rated (Mature) video games, which are designed for adults; ninety-two percent of children play video or computer games, of which about forty percent are rated M, which are the fastest growing segment of the 10 billion-dollar video game industry; the top selling games reward players for killing police officers, maiming elderly persons, running over pedestrians and committing despicable acts of murder and torture upon women and racial minorities."Tangent Computer, a computer services and hardware company based in Burlingame, California has filed a lawsuit against Microsoft. The lawsuit filed on February 14, 2006 claims that Microsoft continues to breach federal antitrust laws.Tangent alleges that Microsoft fosters tactics "to prevent and destroy competition" while raising prices of its software to "supra-competitive levels." Tangent is arguing that the tactics are a violation of section 2 Sherman Antitrust Act, a federal law prohibiting unfair business practices and monopolies.The lawsuit details legal issues which have faced Microsoft since the 1980s, and requests that an amount of monetary damages to be determined by a jury at a trial.Tangent is an original equipment manufacturer who has purchased and installed Microsoft operating systems since 1995. In addition to their hardware business, they also provide Internet content monitoring, spam filtering, anti-spyware and adware solutions, network vulnerability assessments, active directory tools and migration services.California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has denied clemency for gang founder Stanley "Tookie" Williams, a death row inmate in California convicted of four murders in the 1979.Stanley Williams was the founder of a notorious Crips street gang. He was convicted in 1981 for the four murders — one of a murder of a convenience store clerk and of two Taiwanese-American motel owners and their daughter.In recent years, Williams has claimed that he has been redeemed. He has become known for his anti-gang efforts, including the brokering of a truce between the major street gang, the Bloods, and the Crips which he founded. These efforts have earned him Nobel peace prize nominations. BBC News has reported Alice Huffman, President of The California National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, as saying "We believe this is a serious blow to our effort to fight gangs." However the violent nature of Williams crimes has also been raised.  In denying clemency Californian governor Arnold Schwarzenegger said "Without apology and atonement for these senseless and brutal killings, there can be no redemption,". Despite claims of redemption and renunciation of the gang lifestyle, Willams has not provided authorities with information on the gang he founded, and has maintained his innocence of the murders. According to the statement released by the governor, Williams' stance was a factor in denial of clemency.Williams will be executed by lethal injection at 12:01 AM local time (0801 UTC) on Tuesday.Riots in the town of Salt in Jordan have ended. The violence followed the shooting of a man at a police roadblock; 34 have been arrested over the riots, as has the policeman who pulled the trigger.25-year-old Suleiman Khreisat was shot in the head on Wednesday and remains in critical condition; according to police, his car appeared suspicious, as it had no licence plates and broken windows. A police major gave chase after Khreisat allegedly failed to stop and shot him; he is now detained for use of excessive force against a civilian."Salt residents wanted to know who shot their townsman, demanding that police identify him so that they could take revenge," added Lieutenant Colonel Mohammed al-Khatib. Rioters attacked police kiosks, a traffic police building, and police cars. Stones were thrown at officers. Non-police targets included cash machines, streetlights, shop windows, cars and trees that were burned in two town squares. Roadblocks of burning tyres were formed."Several police officers and citizens were also wounded and have been hospitalized," according to al-Khatib, who added that tear gas was used to battle rioters. He says all 34 arrested will face trial.Former Houston Rockets star Calvin Murphy, accused of molestation by five of daughters, was found not guilty by the jury, putting an end to the eight-month long trial.The alleged incidents took place more than ten years ago, when the daughters, who are now grown, ranged in age from 6 to 16.  They accused Murphy of fondling them and performing oral sex on them.  Murphy has 14 children by nine women.Murphy's attorney claimed that the women's accusations were false and that they were bitter because he did not treat them the same as he treated the children born to his ex-wife.  Murphy's two daughters who were products of his previous marriage came to his defense. The jury indicated that they found the women's statements unreliable.The former basketball star's lawyers said three of the five daughters had been trying to claim $52,408 in death benefits left in a teachers retirement account belonging to their mother, Phyllis Davidson. Murphy had a 20-year relationship and four children with Davidson, who died in a car accident in 1996.This year, the three daughters continued their grandmother's attempt to stop Murphy from receiving the benefits. He was listed as the account's beneficiary, according to court records.On Feb. 20, letters went to Murphy, his three daughters and their grandmother that Murphy was the account's rightful beneficiary. The money was never paid.A month later, Murphy was arrested and charged with sexual abuse and indecency. Because of the nature of the accusations, Murphy lost his job with the Houston Rockets, where he was a TV commentator.  Murphy has not commented about if he has plans to return to a broadcasting career.Civil liberties campaigners have reacted angrily to the announcement that the largest police force in Britain has purchased a revolutionary computer system which will allow them to track everything a person does online in a three-dimensional graphic. The Metropolitan Police service, responsible for policing London, announced the purchase of Geotime, a computer program which can correlate information from satellites, mobile phones, social networking websites, IP logs and financial transactions. The software is already used by the U.S. military.Lawyers and campaigners have questioned whether innocent individuals may be tracked by the software, likened to a computer program in the science fiction film Minority Report. Sarah McSherry, a lawyer representing a number of protesters, raised fears officers could breach data protection laws by tracking innocent protesters, endangering the democratic rights of demonstrators. "We have already seen the utilisation of a number of tactics which infringe the right to peaceful protest, privacy and freedom of expression, assembly and movement. All of these have a chilling effect on participation in peaceful protest," she said. "This latest tool could also be used in a wholly invasive way and could fly in the face of the role of the police to facilitate rather than impede the activities of democratic protesters."Geotime correlates information from numerous sources allowing intelligence officers to view effectively every online move made by individuals, and its website says it can link one suspect to others. The computer software can reportedly create links between people and reveal relationships and private communications, disclosing "temporal patterns and behaviours." A product director at the parent company, Oculus, said the program is available to purchase commercially.A number of academics and intelligence experts have said the program could lead to more convictions in terrorism and organised crime investigations, with one professor describing its use as "absolutely right." In contrast, an official at Privacy International called on police to explain how the software would be used. "Once millions and millions of pieces of microdata are aggregated, you end up with this very high-resolution picture of somebody, and this is effectively what they are doing here," he said. "We shouldn't be tracked and traced and have pictures built by our own government and police for the benefit of commercial gain."Data protection in Britain has become a major issue among public debate in recent years. The most recent controversy to emerge came last week after an elderly man with no criminal record was given permission to take senior officers who systematically recorded details of his attendance at peaceful protests to the High Court. The Metropolitan Police have not yet confirmed how the computer system will be used, but they are researching numerous possibilities; a spokesperson said they were still assessing whether they would permanently use the technology but declined to confirm how much it cost.Canadian authorities have dropped charges against 38-year-old Kyle Unger, who has served more than a decade in jail for a murder he did not commit. Hair from 16-year-old Brigitte Grenier's body was used to convict him and has since been linked to someone else.The case began at a rock concert near Winnipeg on June 23, 1990. Grenier attended the concert but then failed to return home. Her naked body was recovered from a nearby creek the following day in the grounds of the Roseisle ski resort that hosted the event. She had been beaten and sexually assaulted.Unger later confessed to an undercover police officer posing as a drug dealer, and was charged alongside Timothy Houlahan. Both were found guilty, with Unger's conviction helped by male hair recovered from the victim, which a forensics expert testified had come from the innocent man.Unger, who had been imprisoned since being charged in 1991, was sentenced on February 29, 1992 to a minimum of 25 years imprisonment. The following year the Manitoba Court of Appeal dismissed his appeal and the Supreme Court of Canada refused to hear it. In 1994 Houlahan's conviction was overturned and he was released on bail pending a retrial; the 21-year-old chose instead to take his own life.In 2003 the area's Forensic Evidence Review Committee (FERC) began to look at cases involving hair samples. The next year authorities reported that they were able to relocate the hair used in the Grenier case, which they had previously believed to have been destroyed. Several months afterwards FERC said that the hair was not Unger's.It would be another year before Justice Holly Beard ruled in November 2005 that Unger should be released while his case was reviewed. On November 24, 2005 he was set free after nearly 14 years wrongly imprisoned. The review was completed this year and in March the conviction was overturned. A retrial was ordered by Federal Justice Minister Rob Nicholson.However, prosecutors today decided that a retrial was highly unlikely to result in a conviction owing to the fact that no physical evidence links Unger to the slaying. He was formally acquitted of first-degree murder today. Grenier's family have maintained that they believe in his guilt."It's the first day of the rest of my life, a new beginning," Unger said after leaving court today. He now lives in British Columbia. He said he was not angry over what happened to him, just upset. "When you feed off anger it just takes more from you. They already took my younger years away from me, why let them have my mind?" He says of his confession to the men he thought were gangsters that it was because he wanted to work for them: "When you're young, naive and desperate for money, they hold a lot of promises to you, so you say and do what you have to do to survive, just like in prison.""Right now we are joyful that the man has an acquittal," said Unger's lawyer, Hersh Wolch. "This is a momentous day. The (justice) minister ... rarely sends the matter to a retrial. Rarely. Tell me of one. And then an acquittal? It's virtually unheard of. It is unheard of. So this is huge."Manitoba's Attorney General Dave Chomiak says he will not be compensated despite his wrongful conviction because of his false confession.  Prosecutor George Dangerfield, who convicted the pair in 1992, is having his cases reviewed owing to being involved in two previous separate miscarriages of justice — wrongful murder convictions against Thomas Sophonow and James Driskell.An internal training manual developed by the Canadian foreign affairs department lists the United States as a country where foreigners risk torture and abuse, alongside countries such as Afghanistan, China, Iran, Israel, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, and Syria. Both Israel and the United States are officially allies of Canada. The manual is a 93-page PowerPoint presentation by the Foreign Affairs Department for Canadian diplomats and was accidentally given to lawyers for the human rights group Amnesty International. It aims to teach diplomats how to identify and aid victims of torture, with a section on U.S. interrogation techniques including forced nudity, hooding, isolation, and sleep deprivation.It was developed as part of a "torture awareness workshop" in response to the case of Maher Arar. Arar is a Canadian-Syrian citizen who was detained by the United States on suspected ties to terrorism, and deported to Syria where he was tortured. He was eventually returned to Canada, where he was awarded $11.5 million in compensation by the Canadian government.Media attention in Canada was also drawn in recent years to the case of Omar Khadr, a Canadian citizen who has been held at the United States military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba for over five years since the age of 15. He is accused of tossing a grenade that killed one U.S. soldier and injured another in Afghanistan in 2002. Human rights groups have long demanded that Canada pressure the United States into returning Khadr to Canada.The leak was protested by the United States ambassador. "We find it to be offensive for us to be on the same list with countries like Iran and China. Quite frankly it's absurd," U.S. Ambassador David Wilkins to Canada said. "For us to be on a list like that is just ridiculous."Alex Neve, Secretary-general of Amnesty International, said the organization had clear evidence of abuse in US and Israeli jails. "It's therefore reassuring and refreshing to see that ... foreign policy considerations didn't trump the human rights concern and keep them off the list."Canadian officials disclaimed its significance. "The document is a training manual. It is not a policy document or a statement of policy. As such it does not convey the government's views or positions," said Marina Wilson, spokeswoman for the Department of Foreign Affairs in Ottawa.Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister Maxime Bernier said the manual "contains a list that wrongly includes some of our closest allies", and that he "regret[s] the embarrassment caused by the public disclosure of the manual used in the department's torture awareness training".Karla Homolka has transfixed Canada since she helped her husband drug, rape, torture, videotape and kill two teenage girls and cause the death of her own sister. Homolka, 35, will be released sometime before Tuesday after serving the full sentence of 12 years in prison for manslaughter. According to press accounts of her childhood, Homolka was just 17, a bright 11th-grader, when she met Paul Bernardo, 23, a charming and handsome man, in 1987. Bernardo would ultimately be found by police to be a serial rapist, with sometime assistance from Homolka. Homolka struck a bargain with prosecutors to plead guilty to two counts of manslaughter and testify against her husband, and fears she will be the target of vigilantes angry about what many Canadians consider the "deal with the devil" that's to blame for her imminent release.With a stroke of the pen, Canadian Supreme Court Chief Justice Beverley McLachlin signed into law Canada's controversial C-38 bill, which legalized same-sex marriage in the country. In doing so, Canada became the fourth nation in the world to grant full legal marriage rights to same-sex couples.The signature came one day after Canada's Senate voted to adopt the bill Tuesday. The parliament's lower house voted to pass C-38 earlier this year. The law makes national same sex marriage rights that are already legalized in eight of the country's 10 provinces.The other three countries that have similar laws are The Netherlands, Belgium and Spain.In order to put the cannabis drug (marijuana) out of reach of minors, the Canadian federal government announced a bill to legalise cannabis for the age group of eighteen and above, on Thursday. The bill would allow adults to possess cannabis publicly, previously a criminal offence.Canada's health minister Jane Philpott tweeted, "Today we tabled new legislation to legalise, strictly regulate, and restrict access to cannabis. Our goal: keep it out of the hands of youth, and profits out of the hands of criminals." ((fr))French language: ‍Ajd nous avons déposé un nouveau projet de loi pour légaliser le cannabis, le réglementer de manière stricte et en restreindre l'accès. Notre objectif: garder le cannabis hors de la portée des jeunes, & les profits hors des mains des criminels. The Canadian government, via their official website, explained cannabis is available illegally, and their measures to stop it did not work. Criminal organisations are making money selling cannabis. Under-aged people can obtain the drug easily; they said, "it is easier for our kids to buy cannabis than cigarettes."The bill allows provinces and territories to set the age limit above eighteen. In order to prevent criminal gangs from making a profit, selling the drug needs a license permitting its sale. Adults can purchase the drug online from a licensed producer if a retail shop is not available in the province.Adults can carry up to 30 g (slightly over an ounce) of cannabis and grow at most four cannabis plants at home, for personal use. The plants should be no taller than a metre, the bill proposed. Selling cannabis to minors would be a specific criminal offence.The legislation requires parliamentary approval and royal assent. If passed, the bill would be under effect by July 2018, the government said. Health and safety experts and law enforcement were consulted before proposing the legislation. Except for medical purposes, possession of the drug remains illegal until the bill is passed. Regardless of the status of the bill, import and export of the drug would be illegal. Previously when the government increased the taxes on cigarettes to discourage citizens from smoking, a black market for cigarettes developed.Along with legalising cannabis, the bill would also permit the police officials to use tools like oral fluid drug screeners to detect if drivers are under the influence of the drug. Zero tolerance against drivers under influence of drugs is proposed. The government would also implement a public awareness campaign on the perils of driving under the influence of drugs.The government still working on the restrictions. Lawmaker and former police chief Bill Blair said, "We do accept that more important work remains to be done." If the bill is passed, Canada would be the second country to legalise cannabis completely. Uruguay is the first. Some countries, such as Germany, allow medical use of cannabis, but recreational use is prohibited.Police are currently on the hunt for a suspect in two Ontario, Canada, murders.22-year-old Jesse Imeson, a native of the Windsor, Ontario area, is already wanted for the first-degree murder of Carlos Rivera, 26, a bartender at a gay strip club in Windsor, last week. Now Ontario Provincial Police are issuing a Canada-wide warrant for him in connection of the slaying of an elderly couple in their rural home near Grand Bend, on the shore of Lake Huron."I have to stress again the importance of not approaching the individual and contacting police immediately," says Ontario Provincial Police Const. Jeff Walraven on Tuesday. "We'd much rather deal with a suspicious person at the time than have to deal with the circumstances that arise."Investigators have warned the public to be on the lookout for a grey 2006 GMC Sierra pickup truck with the licence plate JK8334. It is the slain couple's vehicle and they suspect that Imeson has stolen it.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police bungled the case of Maher Arar leading to an innocent man being tortured in Syria following his deportation from the United States, according to the findings of the federal inquiry into the affair. Justice Dennis O'Connor's report, released yesterday, reveals that the RCMP erroneously told the United States that Arar was linked to Al Qaeda and wrongly described him as an "Islamic extremist individual". "The potential consequences of labelling someone an Islamic extremist in post-9/11 are enormous" wrote O'Connor. Based on information received from the RCMP, Arar was detained on September 16, 2002, during a stopover at JFK Airport in New York City. After being held in the US for two weeks he was deported to Syria under the US policy of "extraordinary rendition" and was detained in a Damascus prison for a year without charges and tortured before being returned to Canada. "I am able to say categorically that there is no evidence to indicate that Mr. Arar has committed any offence or that his activities constitute a threat to the security of Canada," O'Connor wrote in his 822 page report. "This was not a case where investigators were unable to effectively pursue their investigative goals because of lack of resources or time constraints. On the contrary, Canadian investigators made extensive efforts to find any information that could implicate Mr. Arar in terrorist activities... The results speak for themselves: they found none," stated the report. Arar, 36, was relieved by the findings and was tearful when he first read them."I think the Canadian public has always believed that I was innocent. But it's very different when it comes from a respected jurist like Justice O'Connor," he said saying also that the judge had "cleared my name and restored my reputation."Gunmen stormed a Cambodian school today taking kindergardeners and teachers hostage.The men entered Siem Reap International School, a Cambodian elementary school in Siem Reap (near Angkor Wat), earlier today.The gunmen killed one Canadian boy of an unknown age, apparently after he would not stop crying. Police began negotiating with the hostage takers after the killing.  Cambodian police raided the school after the hostages had been held for six hours.  Two gunmen, along with the Canadian child, have reportedly died, while the police have detained four more suspects.  The surviving hostages have now been freed.  "All of a sudden the gates opened and people came running out with children in their arms," said John McDermott, a correspondent for CNN.Most of the children that were held hostage are the sons and daughters of hotel workers. According to a resident, the hostages were Singaporean, Korean, Japanese, Australian, Taiwanese, Irish, British, Swiss, Indonesian, Canadian, Indian, American, Italian, and Filipino. She added, "The gunmen let one class go, but they [were] holding the kindergarten class."The Siem Reap International School has served as a support system for the rapidly increasing number of expatriate workers attracted by Cambodia's tourist industry upsurge, one of the very few boosters of the severely impoverished nation's economy.A trio of fast food robbers have been charged today by Toronto Police after a one year investigation over their Greater Toronto Area (GTA) fast food restaurant robberies, which have been carrying on since November 2006.Their many successful break-ins were from the help of a police scanner, two-way radios, and other tools including an oversized cardboard box.Police say one of the trio's members hid in a box while using a glass-cutter to cut through the front door of a restaurant. The two others monitored the area using a police scanner and two-way radios in case of police. The thieves also usually managed to disable any alarm systems.  When the thief broke-in he/she would crawl on the floor until they found their desired destination, the cash-registers, then take all the money they wanted, and then discretely leave.Police said the three were finally caught after responding to an unrelated call.The names of the robbers are Gordon Michael Edwards, 27, Jason Richard Phillips, 25, and Donna Hofscheier, 23. They face a total of 355 charges for over 200 robberies totalling CAD250,000.Police are now searching Canada-wide for 25-year-old Adam Spencer, a man with ties to the Oakville, Ontario and Toronto areas. He is a motivational speaker, and the founder/chief executive (CEO) of Emexis Integrated Solutions, an upstart information technology company.First off, Spencer told investors between September 2005 and May of last year that he was making Emexis a public company, located in downtown Toronto. He allegedly took CAN$8 million from Canadian investors, defrauded 100 investors out of amounts ranging from CAN$5,000 to as much as CAN$2 million each in a couple of cases, and is on the run with their cash.Police don't even know if he is still in Canada. They suspect that he could be in England because he has a passport there.Spencer travels to car race events all around the world.Wikinews will continue to follow this story as updates are known.Adam Spencer, 26-years-old, and former (CEO) of Emexis Integrated Solutions Inc. turned himself in yesterday morning. His family and his lawyer were with him.This came after a Canada-wide police search was started on January 12, 2007. The Oakville, Ontario man disappeared last year after asking for money from Canadian investors to help his company Emexis go public. However, Spencer did not take Emexis public as promised.Eighty-nine investors, who, at the time, believed Spencer, have come forward to police."The long and the short of it is that he did not meet his obligations in terms of what he promised his investors," Mr. Peter Leupen, one of the investors who helped Spencer, said. "He promised us a dividend on an initial investment and that never happened.""He's genuinely dishonest, I think he's immature and putting the best gloss on it, he let the money he was collecting go to his head. He was spending it like a drunken sailor on boats, houses, race cars, everything but what he was supposed to be spending it on," Mr. Symon Zucker, a Toronto lawyer who the investors sought help from.Spencer was last seen before Christmas and recently returned to Canada. Detective Jeff Thompson said Spencer was in Chicago, Illinois for the weekend."It appears that he was not in any hurry to face the music," said Thompson.Spencer will go to a Toronto court on Monday.Johnson Aziga, 52, was accused of knowingly infecting his sex partners with the HIV virus which can cause AIDS. The trial dealt with the cases where two women had died from AIDS-related complications, while 11 others were either infected or exposed to HIV. Aziga was informed he carried the HIV virus in 1996 and was instructed by public health authorities to inform his sex partners of his condition. However, the trial prosecutors alleged that Aziga disregarded these orders and continued to practice unprotected sex without warning his partners he carried HIV.The defence counsel for Aziga argued that he suffered from various problems including depression and an organic brain disorder, which rendered him incapable of causing intentional harm.During the trial in Hamilton, Aziga also faced 11 counts of aggravated sexual assault and was convicted in all but one of these charges. The 11th charge was replaced by conviction on a lesser charge of attempted aggravated sexual assault. The murder convictions mean that Aziga faces sentence for which he could not be paroled for 25 years.The Ontario Court of Appeal in Toronto has cleared Stephen Truscott of murder charges, nearly a half century after the controversial Canadian crime case began.Truscott was charged and convicted at the age of 14 for the rape and killing of 12-year-old Lynne Harper near Clinton, Ontario in 1959. He was initially sentenced to death but the Canadian government reduced it to life imprisonment in 1960. He was granted parole and released from prison in 1969.After living under an alternate identity for many years, Truscott began to work towards an appeal of his murder conviction. Truscott won his appeal when the Ontario Court of Appeal's decision was released on Tuesday. This judgment was based on a review of evidence which cast considerable doubt on the prosecution's original case such as the timing of Lynne Harper's death.The Ontario government has started a process to determine an appropriate amount of compensation to Truscott for his years living under a criminal record.Although the court has stated that Truscott was a victim of a miscarriage of justice, it also ruled that it could not declare him innocent of the crime based on the evidence. Truscott's lawyers had asked for the ruling on innocence, as the determination could have an affect on the awarding of compensation. Truscott commented on his relief that capital punishment had been abolished in Canada, as "there are so many wrongfully convicted in this country and they're simply just swept under the rug."On Wednesday, Canadian energy company EnCana announced that it would pay a C$500,000 cash reward for information leading to an arrest and prosecution in four bombings of its natural gas pipelines. The explosions have occurred over the past three months in northeastern British Columbia. While the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) has been investigating the situation since the first explosion in October, there are still no suspects. Some residents in the area are vocally opposed to EnCana's gas exploration, and have not been cooperative, according to the RCMP."There is a small group of individuals within the community who we have spoken to many times," RCMP Sergeant Tim Shields noted. "They know full well who they are, and they have not been co-operative. And we are appealing to those people to do the right thing and come forward to our investigators and tell us what they know."The four bombings, which targeted pipelines, wellheads and a metering shed in the Tomslake community, have not injured anyone. Encana fears that residents or its employees may not be so lucky if there are further bombings. EnCana executive vice-president Mike Graham commented that, "Whoever is responsible for these bombings has to be stopped before someone gets hurt. We hope this reward will encourage anyone who has knowledge of those responsible for the bombings to come forward and help put an end to these dangerous attacks."The reward has elicited over a dozen tips since its announcement. While some of the tips have been "very low quality," the RCMP remains hopeful and will continue to process all leads.Rewards of smaller amounts may be paid out for information that aids the investigation but does not directly lead to an arrest. "After consulting with the RCMP and the Crown assigned to the prosecution, EnCana will determine the monetary value, if any, of the information provided to the investigation," noted Graham.A Canadian farmer has announced that he will continue to provide his customers with raw milk despite the fact that courts have ordered him to stop providing his customers with the product. "Yes, we will continue with what we're doing," he said, after being ordered by the courts to stop selling the product. He made these comments while drinking a glass of milk.By refusing to obey the demands of the court, Michael Schmidt, the farmer involved, faces charges of contempt of court. Raw milk is banned in Canada, as it can carry infections such as E. coli, salmonella and Listeria. Schmidt insists, however, that none of his customers have ever suffered from infections as a result of his milk, despite the fact that he has been in the business of selling it for over twenty years.Supporters of the right to consume raw milk argue that it has large health benefits and a much better taste. "The rich and sweet taste of unpasteurized milk would blow most people away," claimed Schmidt. "I bet that 90 per cent of the people who would have the choice by blind tasting would all go for raw milk because that is the taste of milk and not what you buy on the shelf."Schmidt also argued that his civil disobedience was a good way to change a law which he believes to be unjust. "When Gandhi picked up the salt, he kept marching, and when Martin Luther King, Jr. started the Montgomery bus strike, he kept going until the law was changed," he explained.Canadian gold-medalist Myriam Bédard is facing a January 5 extradition hearing from the United States, after she was arrested and charged with abducting her 12-year old daughter Maude. The Biathalon athlete is arguing she should be allowed to return to Canada on her own.Bédard had taken her daughter to Washington D.C. with her new husband, Nima Mazhari, on October 2, violating the terms of her divorce settlement from Biathalon coach Jean Paquet. Mazhari, who is a sculptor, was charged with the unrelated theft of $100,000 worth of paintings last year.Paquet filed a report with the Sûreté du Québec on December 8, stating that Bédard had violated the divorce terms, and an international arrest warrant was issued.On December 20, the case was brought to the attention of Interpol, and two days later the United States Marshals Service announced her arrest in Columbia, Maryland, at a hotel celebrating Maude's 12th birthday. Maude was taken into the custody of the Marshals Service for three days, before being returned to her natural father.Defence attorney John Pepper is arguing that the United States should be obligated to release Bédard on bail as she hasn't been formally charged with any crime, pending her extradition to Canada, where she faces two charges, child abduction and violating a custody order.Pepper is also arguing that the three-time Olympic medalist was seeking refuge from "bureaucratic terrorism" in Canada, a claim that Bédard made in a letter she sent to the International Olympic Committee, Kofi Annan and US ambassador David Wilkins explaining why she was leaving Canada.Bédard gave testimony during the Sponsorship scandal, where she stunned the courts by alleging that advertising firms had been engaged in narcotics trafficking, that her current husband was responsible for the decision not to send the Canadian Forces to Iraq, and that Formula One driver Jacques Villeneuve had been paid $12 million to wear a Canadian flag, claims that were not verified by other sources.Bédard is facing growing doubts about her mental state, which her attorney says are attempts to "belittle" her, due to personal grudges and her role in the scandal.Friday Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper on behalf of the government apologized to deportation victim Maher Arar.In 2002, Syrian-born and Canadian software engineer Maher Arar was arrested by U.S. officials and deported to Syria after the U.S. suspected that he was a terrorist. Arar was held in a Syrian prison where he was regularly tortured for a year. He came back to Canada in October 2003.The affair became very public in Canada. Arar is banned from the United States and the Canadian government says they will try to talk with U.S. officials. Harper is calling on the U.S. government to take Arar off the no-fly and terrorist watchlists. Arar was "wrongly" accused of being a terrorist.The Canadan PM gave him an apology for Canada's role in the affair and offered a $10.5 million compensation package to Arar and his family. Arar gladly agreed to the package."I try to see how I'm still being portrayed on the Internet and in the media. And I'll be open with you -- I get very upset when I read the words 'terror suspect', 'former terror suspect' because it always reminds the reader of this link that never existed. I'm very excited when I see people referring to me as a Canadian computer engineer," Arar said Friday in a news conference in Ottawa responding to the governments apology. "The struggle to clear my name has been long and hard," he said. "I feel now I can put more time into being a good father, and to being a good husband and to rebuilding my life.""This struggle has taught me how important it is to stand up for human rights," he said. "I feel proud as a Canadian and I feel proud of what we've been able to achieve."Arar currently lives with his wife Monia Mazigh and two children in Kamloops, British Columbia, Canada.A Canadian government employee of Environment Canada was arrested Wednesday for criminal breach of trust with respect to a leak of the Conservative government's green plan days before it was due to be made public.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) arrested the unidentified male employee following a complaint from Environment Canada's security department. The department alleges that a secret draft copy of the government's regulatory framework, Climate Change Section of the Eco-Action Plan, had been leaked to the media prior to being released officially to the public."An employee who violates the terms of their workplace security clearance, including the release of secret documents, may be subjected to legal consequences, including criminal charges," said Superintendent Stan Burke, officer in charge of the RCMP's financial integrity division. There was also concern that if the details were leaked, securities laws could be compromised if stock trades were made based on privileged information.Environment Minister John Baird was forced to reveal details of the government's climate change plan on April 24, in an opinion piece published in the media. The move came after a copy of a speech describing the plan was faxed by mistake, a day earlier, to an opposition Liberal party member and environment critic, David McGuinty. It is not clear whether the police action Wednesday was related to that incident.The RCMP stated that the matter remains under investigation and, as such, no further details would be released at this time.Canadian Governor General Michaëlle Jean issued a statement regarding the recent fatal shooting at Dawson College, near Montreal, Quebec, Canada."It was with great sadness that my husband Jean-Daniel Lafond and I learned of the terrible tragedy that unfolded this afternoon at Dawson College in Montreal. My first thoughts went immediately to the wounded, students, parents, and college staff for whom this has been a very trying time. We are all stunned and saddened by this inexcusable act but remain firm in our resolve to condemn violence in all its forms. I commend all those who reached out to those affected by this tragedy: the police, emergency services, ordinary citizens who responded with caring, professionalism and urgency."At 12:41 p.m. local time (UTC-5), a man opened fire at Dawson College, in Westmount, Quebec, Canada; the college is located near the heart of downtown Montreal. The shooter and student Anastasia DeSousa were both killed in the incident. Police report at least 20 people being injured, some of whom are still in critical condition.China is planning to execute a Canadian national next week according to his wife who is seeking help from the Canadian government to free the man. Huseyin Celil, a Uighur Muslim who immigrated to Canada as a refugee, had been a dissident in China in the 1990s urging greater religious freedom. He was arrested last decade for trying to start a political party and fled China after breaking out of prison. He was sentenced to death in absentia by a Chinese court for his role in the anti-government movement. China also claims Celil was involved in a political assassination, a charge he and his family deny. Celil settled in Canada as a refugee and eventually gained citizenship. He was visiting his wife's family in Kyrgystan in March when he was arrested at the request of the Chinese. He was extradited to China in June.His wife, Kamila Talendibaeva of Burlington, Ontario was told by Calil's sister, who lives in China, that Calil was being held in a prison in the western Chinese province of Xinjiang and may be executed as early as August 10."I can't get any information. I can't get any news and I'm just crying all the time thinking of him," Talendibaeva told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.A Canadian official says that Ottawa has been in contact with China and received assurances that Celil will not be executed."In the past 48 hours or so, Chinese government officials at a senior level assured our embassy officials in Beijing that they would not seek the death penalty against Mr. Celil," Conservative Member of Parliament Jason Kenney told CBC News.According to a government report released on Tuesday, six inmates of a Regina, Saskatchewan jail managed to escape last summer after spending four months using nail clippers and other makeshift instruments to break out.The report stated that no fewer than 87 prison guards had supervised the inmates' unit, but did not discover the prisoners' escape plans.The inmates, four of whom had faced murder charges, used the instruments to remove a steel plate and grill, and finally break through with a shower rod, reaching an exterior brick wall. The inmates used sheets and blankets to climb up the exterior walls of the compound.Some of the prisoners played cards at a table in the corridor to block the guards' view.The prisoners were later caught and sent back to prison. "We didn't think we would get away with it. We started working on it. It was something to do and we just kept at it. When we didn't get caught, we picked our night and just went," said one of the escapees to the team investigating the incident.A judge in the province of Ontario, Canada dismissed marijuana possession charges against a Toronto man, ruling that Canada's laws governing possession are unconstitutional. The unidentified defendant, 29, had been charged with possession after police had found him carrying 3.5 grams of marijuana.Since July 30, 2001, Canada has allowed a medical exemption for the possession and growing of marijuana, under Health Canada's Marijuana Medical Access Regulations. The regulations describe eligible persons as those "suffering from grave and debilitating illnesses." Canada contracts a company, Prairie Plant Systems, to cultivate and package seeds and/or dried marijuana for shipping of a monthly supply to eligible patients. A packet of 30 seeds costs CA$20, plus taxes. Dried marijuana costs patients CA$150 for 30 grams (slightly more than one ounce).The defendant in the legal case was not suffering from an illness and was not in need of an exemption from the possession laws. The man put forth a defence that questioned the legality of the medical exemption since it was only a regulation, not a law. He argued that all possession laws, therefore, should be struck down.The judge presiding over the case, Howard Borenstein, agreed with the argument. "The government told the public not to worry about access to marijuana," said Judge Borenstein. "They have a policy but not law. In my view that is unconstitutional."The defendant's lawyer, Brian McAllister, felt that the ruling may have significant consequences  for possession laws throughout the province. "Obviously, there's thousands of people that get charged with this offence every year," said McAllister. He suggested that Ontario residents can cite the new ruling as a defence for possession charges. "That's probably why the government will likely appeal the decision," he said.Judge Borenstein will make his ruling official in two weeks time. Prosecutors in the case have said that they will appeal the decision soon.In related news, a Liberal senator from the province of British Columbia, Larry Campbell, said Wednesday that the federal government should decriminalize marijuana and "tax the hell out of it,". He said the government should use the revenue for health care priorities. Sales should be controlled by government, he stated, in the same way that alcohol is sold. He noted that organized crime is pulling in large profits on the growing and sale of the drug. Senator Campbell also suggested that too many resources are placed on the criminal prosecution of people for possession of small amounts of marijuana. "This is not a drug that causes criminality," he said. "People are getting criminal records for essentially nothing."A recent UN survey, the 2007 World Drug Report, has determined that marijuana use in Canada is the highest among developed nations. Some 16.8 percent of Canadians between the ages of 15 and 64 used marijuana in 2004, compared to 12.6 percent of Americans, 8.7 percent for Britain, 8.6 percent for France, 6.9 percent for Germany, and 0.1 percent of Japanese.York University law professor Alan Young, said the report's numbers may be skewed higher for Canadians due to the willingness of Canadians to discuss the issue. "It's become a large part of youth culture in Canada, and more importantly, 50 percent of marijuana smokers are over the age of 30," he said. "So it's really gone to all age groups, all class groups. There's no question about it that there is less stigma in Canada."Only four other countries ranked ahead of Canada on marijuana use: Papua New Guinea, Micronesia, Ghana, and Zambia.The UN data for harder drugs such as amphetamines and ecstasy showed relatively low use among Canadians.A new law that proposes no spitting, swearing, or urinating in public passed its second reading in Calgary.Calgary City Council is expected to pass it into law later this year.Fines would range from $50 for carrying a visible knife or standing on public benches and $300 for urinating or defecating in public. People who spit would face a $100 fine and those who fight in city streets would pay a $250 ticket."You have to set the groundwork of expectations — mutual expectations — in order to be able to work well together, live well together," said Ald. Madeline King, a councilor who represents part of Calgary's inner city. "This is the right thing to do — this is a social contract between Calgarians that calls for a minimum amount of respect," he said."Unless you have rules, things don’t work so well in terms of living together harmoniously," said Ald. Madeleine King. "It's not targeting the homeless, it's targeting anyone who behaves in this way."It will come back to council for final approval next week. City lawyers have concerns about enforcing some parts of the legislation.The Coalition to Repatriate Omar Khadr held a press conference in Toronto on Wednesday, where Khadr's lawyer Dennis Edney unveiled his reintegration strategy for the sole Western citizen still held at Guantanamo Bay, in hopes that he can be returned to Canada.Edney presented his "plan of reintegration" for Khadr, which constituted maintaining distance from his controversial family while undergoing physical and psychological tests and counselling while the legal system decides whether to charge him under the Criminal Code of Canada. Nate Whitling, another lawyer representing Khadr, told The Globe and Mail that his defence team had "no objection at all to fair trial".However, there has been no indication of acceptance of the plan from government officials, who were delivered an outline of the proposed terms of release earlier this week. Edney reiterated his plea for due process, urging the government to "accept our plan ... a plan that says something about who we are as Canadians."Khadr, who was 15 years old and serving as a translator for Afghan insurgents when he was captured by American Special Forces in 2002, has been a controversial point in Canadian politics since his capture. While the ruling Liberal party had initially made motions towards ensuring that the youth would face fair legal proceedings, they were superseded by the current Conservative premiership of Stephen Harper three years ago. Since then, the government has refused to intervene stating that the Guantanamo military tribunals constituted an "ongoing legal process" determining his fate. When Barack Obama announced the suspension of the tribunals and the closure of the detainment camps in January 2009, Harper maintained his position that Khadr did not constitute a child soldier and was better to be tried by the United States than his native country. Dismissing Harper's claims on Wednesday, Edney suggested that the Prime Minister "learn some international law".Also on Wednesday, the leaders of the three opposition parties in Canadian parliament sent a letter to Obama urging him to repatriate Khadr as both the majority of the House of Commons and the population support his return and reintegration into society.Last week, 185 Canadian groups and individuals accused the Prime Minister of "harbouring anti-Muslim sentiment" in his refusal to comply with international law, and public opinion, to return Khadr to face justice in Canada. A petition with more than 50,000 signatures was also delivered to Parliament Hill by representatives of Amnesty International calling for Khadr's release.The pilot who stole a light aircraft yesterday from Canada and landed in the central United States is now in custody.Adam Dylan Leon, a 31-year-old Canadian citizen, stole a Cessna 172 Skyhawk light aircraft from an airfield in Thunder Bay, Ontario, Canada. After taking off, the airplane went off course toward the United States. The State Capitol in Madison, Wisconsin was briefly evacuated, but the aircraft went southwest of the city and personnel were allowed back in. Two F-16 fighters had been dispatched to follow the Cessna which later landed near US 60 in Ellsinore, Missouri, but NORAD spokesman Mike Kucharek said that the aircraft was not thought to be a terrorist threat.Sgt. Marty Elmore, a spokesman for the Missouri Highway Patrol, says Leon was arrested about 9:30 CDT near the site of his landing. Leon is a person of Turkish origin who became a Canadian citizen in 2008 and changed his name from Yavuz Berke. Leon jumped a fence and stole the plane, according to local radio.According to Kucharek, the aircraft began behaving erratically around 2:30 CDT. He also says the pilot, at the time unidentified, appeared to acknowledge the fighter craft but did not heed their instructions. Leon's motive is not known.Managers at Central Wisconsin Airport in Mosinee, Wisconsin earlier said the facility was preparing for a forced landing of the aircraft, but the attempt to force it to land was scrubbed. The aircraft later crossed the border out of Wisconsin and passed over Illinois north of the city of St. Louis, Missouri. It flew further south before landing in Ellsinore on Route 60, at which point the pilot fled on foot. Attempts to establish contact with or discern the intentions of the pilot were unsuccessful.The distance from Thunder Bay to Ellsinore is 795.1 miles (1,280 km), near the reported maximum range of a Cessna 172, but authorities say the aircraft had two hours of fuel left. Only Leon is believed to have been on board the aircraft.Robert 'Bob' Edmonds, who sued the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation (OLG), died Monday in hospital at age 83 of cancer."He'll be remembered as the guy who just wouldn't go away," said Ontario Ombudsman André Marin speaking of the loss. "I was the speakerphone and he was the speaker – I merely amplified what he had to say. He deserves the credit for the entire thing."Edmonds of Coboconk, Ontario first came to fight the OLG in 2001 when he was "robbed" of his lottery winning of CAN$250,000 by a store clerk. He asked the store clerk's wife Phyllis LaPlante to check the tickets and she said he did not win but won a free ticket (when someone wins a lottery prize in Canada a small sound goes off in the store). Days after, the couple who owned the store were in the local newspaper saying they had won the jackpot of $250,000. When he contacted the OLG they denied the allegations, and when the couple were arrested for fraud they refused to return his winnings. He sued the LaPlantes for the winnings and settled for $150,000.In 2002, Edmonds sued the corporation and signed a confidentiality agreement on behalf of the OLG after a judge asked them to rightfully give him the money he won. They gave him $200,000 three years later. Last Friday they gave him $50,000 dollars more, for a total of $250,000.In October 2006, CBC's The Fifth Estate showed that more retailers from 1999 to 2006 were winning instead of the customers. After the broadcast OLG's former CEO called him and personally apologised and the company started to create more security measures for customers.Following the allegations, 1,000,000 scratch tickets were recalled and on March 23, 2007 CEO Duncan Brown announced he resigned his position. Days later Ontario Ombudsman André Marin sparked up an investingation into the OLG however it is still ongoing.Edmonds leaves his wife, daughter, and two sons.Ralph Scala was sentenced Saturday for 49 counts of mischief, criminal harassment, and uttering threats during seven years of neighbourhood bullying in Toronto, Ontario.   Scala, aged 36, slashed tires, smashed windows, and intimidated and insulted his neighbours."I had to go and calm her down when she found her property littered with dog refuse, dead squirrels, cats, mice and even a skunk deliberately left behind to frighten her," said Maria Bolotta, daughter of Carmela Canino, an 87 year old widow.  Canino shared a semi-detached house with Scala."It became impossible for me to spend quality time with her or to enjoy her property with her because of the horrible skeletons, fake camera, pitchforks, and tombs bearing her name that we had to face when we went outside." continued Bolotta.Bolotta recounted finding 22 sharpened bicycle spokes jabbed into the lawn while she was out with the lawn mower.Justice Kathleen Caldwell's sentencing of Scala was followed by a three year probation, counseling, and 200 hours of community service.  Additionally he must pay the neighbourhood victims restitution and stay away from the neighbourhood and its residents.His father, Felice Scala aged 62, faces four charges related to his son's crimes and will appear in court in June.Stephen Harper, the Prime Minister of Canada, asked hunters and fishermen to contact opposition  members of parliament (MPs) to abandon the Canadian Firearms Registry.Harper was the keynote speaker at the Ontario Federation of Anglers and Hunters conference held Saturday in Mississauga.Harper asked those attending the rally to support the bill to abolish the registry.  He said, "There are MPs in all these parties that know what we know: that law-abiding hunters and farmers are not part of the crime problem, and that you should be respected and not demonized,  So I challenge you to press these MPs to follow their consciences and do what they know is right, vote to abolish the long-gun registry and fight crime instead." "Hunters are not the ones on the streets breaking the law — they're enjoying the sport and the country," said Frank DiRocco, an avid hunter and angler from Woodbridge, Ontario."Instead of action on crime, we got the federal long gun registry, which became a bloated bureaucratic nightmare to responsible hunters, farmers and rural Canadians.  It cost taxpayers some CA$2 billion and it hasn't done a thing to reduce gun crime." said Harper.The Conservatives have provided amnesty for unregistered gun owners.At this time there is no legislation set before the House of Commons.  Conservative Garry Breitkreuz from Saskatchewan tabled the bill killing the long-gun registry.Stephen Harper, along with MADD Canada, has proposed to amend the Criminal Code to make driving while under the influence of drugs as unacceptable as drunk driving.Harper was at a news conference in Kitchener today during the 19th annual Project Red Ribbon campaign, sponsored by Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD)."Just as a drunk driver does, a drug-impaired driver presents a danger to himself and others," Harper said. "We can act to prevent more such incidents from occurring."The PM also spoke of his personal connection to Tory Senator Marjorie LeBreton, who lost her daughter and grandson to an impaired driver 10 years ago. The family of David Ryder, one of five teens who were killed near Ottawa in a multi-car crash caused by a driver high on marijuana in 1999, accompanied Harper at the conference today.Police will be able to determine what drug a driver may have consumed. When police find a drugged driver, they will go to a police station and bring the driver to a specially trained police officer that can determine what drugs they were on.According to MADD, the problem has been eliminated in the United States with the introduction of a series of tests that looks for families of drugs.Harper with MADD Canada tied a red ribbon on the aerial of a vehicle as part of MADD's annual campaign targeting impaired driving during the holiday season. The bill will be proposed next week in the House of Commons.A Canadian politician has denounced the recent pie thrown in the face of Fisheries minister Gail Shea, calling for the government to investigate the incident as a potential act of terrorism. The pie was thrown by Emily McCoy, a New Yorker acting with tacit approval of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, to protest Shea's support of the Canadian seal hunt.MP Gerry Byrne made the comments linking the incident to terrorism on a talk radio program on VOCM in his native Newfoundland on Tuesday. He said that an investigation into PETA was needed, as he believed the group's encouragement of direct action rather than political debate "does seem...to meet the test of a terrorist organization".The conservative publication Canada Free Press endorsed Byrne's labeling of the incident, noting that "there is no difference between the motives of PETA and the motives of al-Qaeda [...] they both resort to violence and threats of violence in an attempt to get governments to change their policies."Prime Minister Stephen Harper is scheduled to appear in Newfoundland on Friday, to address members of the Canadian Construction Association. The announcement prompted PETA to promise that an activist dressed as a baby seal will follow the leader around his speaking circuit with a sign reading "Harper: Stop the Seal Slaughter."Canadian Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day says a new and permanent commissioner for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) will be hired in June.Day said he is still not sure if the new chief will come from within the force who has worked up the ranks, or will be appointed from outside the force."We've said we want the best person," said Day. "That could be somebody who's worked their way up through the ranks, that inspires confidence from within. But we've also said that it can't be limited to that."Bev Busson, the Deputy Commissioner, who has been doing the big job as the interim since Giuliano Zaccardelli resigned over the Maher Arar incident, stating last December that she didn't want the post to be permanent for her.Recently a parliamentary committee alleged mismanagement and possible fraud in the RCMP's pension plan.Busson says that anyone with possible evidence will show up. Day also has called an investigation into the suspected "mismanagement and possible fraud" that the parliamentary committee found.The investigation will be carried out in private but a report that has yet to be made public will be released. Day is resisting calls for a full-scale inquiry. A person to head the investigation has not been named.Canadian rapper Bad News Brown has been found dead in southwestern Montreal. Brown, whose real name was Paul Frappier, was found by some abandoned buildings near the Lachine Canal by a passerby. He was 33 years-old. Oliver Lapointe, a police spokesman, said Frappier's upper body had "clear signs of violence". He added "We do not know the motive and we have no witnesses."Henry Gelot, Frappier's manager, released a statement saying "Bad News Brown's death is a great loss for the entire hip-hop and music community in Quebec. In addition to being one of the first rappers from Quebec to reach international acclaim, Bad News Brown has certainly left a mark on everyone who knew him."Frappier was born on the island of Haiti. He moved to Canada when still young and was adopted by a family from Montreal. He started his career as a street busker and performed in several Montreal Metro stations. According to his Facebook page he later became an opening act for several major stars including 50 Cent, Snoop Dog, and Kanye West. Born 2 Sin, Frappier's first album, was released a year ago.Fans have also paid tribute to Frappier through his Facebook page. One person commented "Your sounds will flow for eternity."A copy of a letter written to the Prime Minister of Canada Stephen Harper by a Canadian man facing the death penalty in Saudi Arabia has been obtained by The Canadian Press. In it, Mohamed Kohail pleads with the prime minister to utilise "every way possible to get me out of this situation."  Kohail, 23, of Montreal, was sentenced on March 3, 2008 to be publicly executed following a confession for murder at a Saudi school. Kohail claims the confession was obtained under duress. The Saudi Supreme Court advised the lower court on April 9, 2009 to renounce the death penalty; however, the request was refused.Munzer Al-Hiraki, 19, was killed in an after-school fight in January 2007, allegedly after Kohail's brother, Sultan, insulted a girl. The brothers claim that the fight involved a large group of boys, and felt they were acting in self defense.Sultan, 16 at the time, said that Mohamed came to his rescue with a friend, only to be greeted by a group armed with knives and clubs. Witnesses for the brothers say that Al-Hiraki had arrived at the school with carloads of friends to seek vengeance on Sultan. "I was tortured to sign a confession. I was misinformed that I would be allowed out of custody the moment I signed it," said Kohail.In the letter, delivered by Canadian MP Deepak Obhrai last December, Kohail continues, "Mr. Harper, I have been in jail for two years now. I am imprisoned with hundreds [of] high-profile criminals in Saudi Arabia for a crime that I did not commit. I've lost my hair, two years of my life and see death coming to me closer every day."Kohail received 80 days to appeal the sentence. "There were nine hearings in total and only one time was the lawyer for Mohamed and his friend allowed in the courtroom; not even Mohamed's father, Ali (was allowed in)," said a relative.Harper is seeking clemency for the Kohail brothers. "It has to be worked within the confines of the Saudi law and it's important to recognize that and work with the Saudi officials to come to a resolution," said Foreign Affairs Minister Lawrence Cannon. According to the letter, the Canadian government began seeking clemency March of 2008.If the court continues to uphold the death penalty, the only other option is the payment of dia, or blood money, in exchange for forgiveness — but Al-Hiraki's family seeking CA$5 million.Sultan Kohail is a juvenile who is out on bail awaiting to be tried in adult court on murder charges. The Convention on the Rights of the Child forbids execution of youths under the age of 18, which Saudi Arabia officials declare they comply with.  However, the Convention also prohibits execution for crimes committed as juveniles no matter when the court sentences them.Born in Palestine, the Kohail brothers moved to Canada in 2000, and became Canadian citizens in 2005. They moved to Jiddah in 2006.In October 2007, Canadian Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day said, "We will not actively pursue bringing back to Canada murderers who have been tried in a democratic country that supports the rule of law." Previously Canada consistently sought clemency from all foreign governments after the death penalty was abolished in Canada in 1976.Since the beginning of 2009, 36 people have been executed in Saudi Arabia. 102 were executed in 2008 and 158 were executed in 2007.19-year-old Canadian citizen Omar Ahmed Khadr attended a pre-trial hearing on Wednesday, January 11, in front of a military tribunal at the U.S. naval base in Guantánamo Bay in his case involving charges of murder, attempted murder and aiding the enemy.Khadr was 15 when on July 27, 2002, following the U.S. invasion of Afghanistan, he was present in a compound near Khost which was surrounded by US soldiers. After a fierce firefight and U.S. bombings of the compound, U.S. special operations forces Sgt. Christopher Speer, who has training as a medic, led a group of US soldiers searching the compound in the belief that everybody inside had been killed. According to U.S. army reports, Omar Khadr, who was wounded by the bombings and the only survivor in the compound, fired his pistol and threw a grenade which killed Christopher Speer and wounded three others. In response, Khadr was engaged by U.S. forces and shot three times, which left him nearly blind in one eye.While still 15 years old, Khadr was transferred to the U.S. detention facility at Guantánamo Bay, where he was kept together with adult detainees, separate from other children who received better treatment and some formal education. Now Khadr is 19 and is facing the tribunal operated exclusively by the US military. The tribunal is referred to by different media organizations as a "war crimes court", a "military commission" or a "military tribunal". Its legality is presently under dispute. The USA has not ratified the international treaty creating the International Criminal Court, so the nature of the tribunal under international law is unclear. The Miami Herald reports that "military defense lawyers and legal observers [condemn] the so-called military commissions as stacked against the defendants", but that the chief Pentagon prosecutor, Air Force Col. Morris "Moe" Davis defended the tribunal, stating that the purpose of the tribunals is to provide a fair trial while addressing an enemy whose actions had not been anticipated under the Geneva Conventions. "We have nothing to be ashamed of, and I'm proud of everybody involved in the process," he said.The Supreme Court of the US is expected to decide on the constitutionality of this type of military tribunal in the next few months, with oral arguments in March, to consider charges that the "tribunals" violate US obligations under the Geneva Conventions. Khadr has requested an upgrade to his legal team. The military defense lawyer appointed to him by the tribunal is a 31-year-old army captain, who has never before handled a trial defense and just recently returned from his tour of duty in Iraq.Garth Drabinsky and Myron Gottlieb, founders of Live Entertainment Corporation of Canada, Inc. (Livent) in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, were sentenced Wednesday to concurrent prison terms for corporate fraud and forgery which resulted in millions of dollars in losses to their investors for close to a decade.  Drabinsky received four years on one count and seven years on a second count.  Gottlieb got four years and six years on two counts of fraud."No one is above the law.  No one gets to write his own rules," said Ontario Superior Court Justice Mary Lou Benotto. "Corporate fraud such as this results in tangible losses to employees, creditors and investors."File:Freddyphantom.jpgSenior executives Drabinsky, Gottlieb, Robert Topol, and Gorden Eckstein were all charged by the RCMP in 2002.  Eckstein pleaded guilty to fraud and testified at the court cast against Drabinsky and Gottleib.  Topol had his trial stayed due to adjournments and delays.The Livent company had produced plays such as The Phantom of the Opera, Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, Show Boat, and Ragtime in Toronto, before its sale to Michael Ovitz in 1998.  Ovitz ordered an audit of the company following which it went bankrupt by the year's end. Livent filed a CA$225 million lawsuit against the former chairman Drabinsky and former president Gottlieb, who were summarily dismissed. Drabinsky and Gottlieb are also facing charges in the United States for misrepresentations of financial worth to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.This week new legislation for Canadian courts would enable victims of terrorism to sue anyone who either commits an act of terrorism or funds terrorism acts."We will introduce legislation that will give victims of terrorism the power to obtain just compensation from those responsible for their suffering," said Prime Minister of Canada, Stephen Harper. "By amending the State Immunity Act, this bill will allow victims to sue perpetrators and sponsors of terrorist acts, including foreign states, in Canadian courts."The announcement was made at the Canadian Jewish Congress 90th Anniversary lunch hour. The CJC has been lobbying for such legislation for over a decade. "It's sad to say, the Jewish community is the number one target on most terrorist lists," said Bernie M. Farber chief executive of the CJC.The Canadian Coalition Against Terror also supports the proposed legislation. "The idea is to cut off the flow of money to terrorist organizations because that's what keeps them going. It's also about exposing them for what they're doing. A lawsuit can do that," said lawyer Aaron Blumenfeld representing C-CAT, "The intention is not just to try to get compensation out of those people who sponsored these attacks, but also to expose them for what they’ve done." Critics are concerned about Canada's relations with friendly nations if Canadian citizens sue a foreign state, which would allow the Minister of Foreign Affairs to seize assets under the anti-terrorism bill.Brampton, Ontario woman Wendy Grant, 41, is facing 234 charges of double-doctoring after obtaining prescriptions for 6000 pills. The Ontario Provincial Police also charged her with fraud charge after allegedly obtaining false prescriptions for a narcotic, that werefraudulently billed to the Ontario Drug Benefits Plan.From February to May, Grant obtained pills from 28 doctors and 22 pharmacies in Peel and Halton regions.The Workers' Compensation Board of Nova Scotia defines "double doctoring" "as a situation where a [person] seeks or obtains a prescription for a controlled drug or narcotic from more than one doctor to treat the same condition for the same period of time."Niki Quasney, who together with wife Amy Sandler became the first married gay couple in Indiana, died of cancer on Thursday. She was 38. The death was announced today by the law firm that assisted her.Indiana, US had only recognised their marriage last year after a federal judge granted their emergency request. They wed in 2013 in Massachusetts, two years after an Illinois civil union.Quasney was diagnosed with ovarian cancer in 2009 and sought the intervention to ensure eligibility for her daughters and wife to receive state and national assistance after her death. Also sought was a death certificate recognising her marriage. The same judge ultimately struck down the state gay marriage ban. An appeals court in Chicago upheld the decision, as did the national Supreme Court. The case was one of a national slew following an earlier Supreme Court ruling in favor of gay marriage."If my life is cut short because of ovarian cancer," Quasney told one court "I want our children to know that their parents were treated like other married couples in their home state, and to be proud of this. I want to know what it feels like to be a legally recognized family in our community, together with Amy and our daughters." Their lawyer Paul Castillo said today the couple "knew that by coming forward they could help accelerate equality for all same-sex couples in Indiana by demonstrating the urgency of their need for equal dignity."CanJet Flight 918 was hijacked on 19 April 2009, at approximately 22:30 local time at Sangster International Airport, Montego Bay, Jamaica.The hijacking was executed by a single armed gunman, who later released all of the passengers and two of the crew, keeping six crew members hostage, according to a press statement by CanJet.  The man broke through security and boarded before the plane was scheduled to leave. There are contradictory statements on the number of passengers on board when the man forced his way onto the plane. According to the BBC, there were more than 150, while CBC states that "Most of the (...) passengers had not yet boarded the flight". The hijacker apparently demanded passage to Cuba.The plane was stormed by Jamaican police in the morning of the 20th of April, who succeeded in taking the hijacker into custody and freeing the captives.The flight had started from Halifax International Airport, in Nova Scotia, Canada, at 7:15pm local time. It was stopping in Montego Bay and was scheduled to continue to Santa Clara in Cuba. The airplane in use is a Boeing 737-800.Peter Hammond, a pastor & director at Cape Town Frontline Fellowship, has been charged with assault, after leading his four children on a paintball shooting spree, targeting trick-or-treaters  last Halloween.His 11 year old son had originally been a codefendant, but the charges were recently dropped.  As a result, the charges against Hammond have been transferred out of juvenile court.  Mr. Hammond will file a plea next month.Cape Town Frontline Fellowship is an evangelical missionary organization.  Peter Hammond is also known for his work as a pro-gun activist, and a number of Chrisitian missionary & anti-islamic books. [1]Democrats on Saturday turned over their radio broadcast to a former CIA agent and Republican, Larry Johnson, who accused President George W. Bush of flip-flopping on his pledge to fire anybody on his staff involved with the Valerie Plame leak.Johnson, a participant in yesterday's Democratic hearing on Capitol Hill, said "We deserve people who work in the White House who are committed to protecting classified information, telling the truth to the American people, and living by example to the idea that a country at war with Islamic extremists cannot focus its efforts on attacking other American citizens who simply tried to tell the truth."House and Senate Democrats held a highly partisan hearing Friday where four retired U.S. intelligence officials aired views that were critical of the Plame leak itself, and then critical of Bush administration and Republican efforts to minimize damage caused by the controversy.Former CIA case officer, Jim Marcinkowski, testified that the current administration policy of setting a criminal standard for dismissal was too high, and that Bush should take action on those persons involved. "Each time the political machine made up of prime-time patriots and partisan ninnies display their ignorance by deriding Valerie Plame as a mere paper-pusher, or belittling the varying degrees of cover used to protect our officers, or continuing to play partisan politics with our national security, it's a disservice to this country," he said.The hearing was not an official proceeding of Congress. Democratic lawmakers organized it after Republican leaders in congressional committees with jurisdiction in these matters rejected their request for a legislative oversight hearing. Representative Henry Waxman (D-CA), the ranking minority member of the House Committee on Government Reform, said "A special standard seems to apply to Karl Rove: There will be no questions asked, and no accountability."Meanwhile, a Vermont native Dennis Morrisseau, 62, plans a Republican run for a soon to be vacated seat in the House of Representatives. Bernard Sanders (I-Vt) will leave the post in his run for a Senate seat. Central to Morrisseau's bid is his pledge to bring articles of impeachment against George W. Bush.In light of an oil spill that occurred off the coast of southeast Queensland in 2009, a captain of a cargo ship and four companies are set to appear in court.In March of last year, the cargo ship Pacific Adventurer, with Filipino national Bernardino Gonzales Santos at the helm, encountered bad weather, which resulted in its fuel tank being damaged by loose cargo, leading to the spillage 270,000 litres of oil into the Pacific Ocean. The oil later washed up on Sunshine Coast beaches as well as Moreton and Bribie islands and was dubbed "one of Australia's worse environmental disasters" by the media.Santos and four companies behind Pacific Adventurer face individual counts of discharging oil into the ocean and can be fined a maximum of AU$1.75 million in the case of the companies, while Santos faces a $350,000 fine if found guilty.Santos is also charged with not taking reasonable action following the incident.Richard Kendall, an executive of one of the involved companies, Swire Shipping LTD, said today that "[w]e are deeply regretful. But we will vigorously defend the charges [...] We stand by Captain Santos, who is a first-class captain".Like Swire Shipping, China Navigation Company LTD and Bluewing Shipping LTD, who are both joint owners of Pacific Adventurer, pleaded not guilty to all charges.However, prosecutor Peter Davis stated that "[t]he prosecution's case is that the cause of the cargo going overboard was due to faulty lashings [...] By failing to maintain the lashings, the defendants acted recklessly," an act that prosecutors say should see the companies and captain pay.A man from San Antonio, Texas in the United States, is being charged with assault with a deadly weapon and aggravated assault after he ran a woman off the road. The driver who caused the accident told police that God told him to do it.Police say that Michael E. Schwab claimed that while he was driving on U.S. Highway 281 in Texas, God told him to run the unnamed woman off the road because she "wasn't driving right" and "needed to be taken off the road." He slammed into her car at over 100 miles per hour, spinning both vehicles into the median."God must have been with them, 'cause any other time, the severity of this crash, it would have been a fatal," said Kyle Coleman, a spokesman for the Bexar County sheriff's department.Police say that Schwab was not drunk, and they found no illegal drugs inside his car. He is expected to undergo a psychiatric evaluation. Neither of the individuals suffered serious injuries.God has faced scrutiny in the past, including a recent lawsuit that was thrown out of court. A judge in Nebraska, USA had dismissed a lawsuit in October that was filed against the higher power. In 2007, Nebraska state Senator Ernie Chambers, who represents legislative District 11 in North Omaha, filed the lawsuit alleging God was responsible for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants."A car containing an large explosive device has been defused in the Haymarket, London. A second device was later found in a car park in Park Lane.A car, a light metallic green Mercedes-Benz E Class saloon (produced 1984-1995), parked near the nightclub 'TigerTiger', contained petrol,  gas cylinders and nails. Police described it as a "potentially viable explosive device". Police carried out a controlled explosion at 2:00 a.m. BST and the car has been taken to a forensic explosives laboratory for further investigation.Eyewitnesses saw the car driving "erratically" and colliding with bins before being abandoned. An ambulance crew in the area alerted police after seeing smoke inside the car.Deputy Assistant Police Commissioner Peter Clarke said there could have been "significant injury or loss of life". A meeting of COBRA, chaired by new Home Secretary Jacqui Smith was held about the incident.Police say it is too early to tell who is behind the threat. Prime Minister Gordon Brown said the country faces a "serious and continued security threat" and urged people to "be vigilant at all times".Disruption has been caused to transport in the area with roads closed and bus routes diverted. Piccadilly Circus tube station has reopened after an earlier closurePolice are reviewing major events to be held in London over the weekend.CBS News has reported that a message appeared on the widely used jihadist Internet forum Al-Hesbah at 8:09 a.m. June 28, saying: "Today I say: Rejoice, by Allah, London shall be bombed." The message went on to mention the recently announced knighthood of Satanic Verses author Salman Rushdie.Following an incident at Glasgow airport, Home Secretary Jacqui Smith announced the elevation of the UK's national threat level from "Severe" to "Critical", indicating that an attack could be expected "imminently".   Two people have been arrested in Cheshire in connection with the Glasgow International Airport attack and attempted London car bombings.A car bomb has exploded outside an army base in Northern Ireland that is the headquarters for MI5 domestic security services. The attack has been claimed by dissidents from the Real Irish Republican Army, a more radical splinter group of the IRA.According to police, Real IRA members hijacked a vehicle from a taxi driver in Belfast; Al Jazeera reports it was commandeered at gunpoint. A bomb was planted in the car, which was then driven to the rear of the Palace Barracks.The explosion comes several hours before the Northern Ireland Assembly was scheduled to appoint its first justice minister, and only minutes after the Belfast power-sharing administration regained control over justice and policing in the province for the first time in nearly four decades.An Ulster Unionist member of the Belfast Policing Board, Basil McCrea, commented on the explosion, saying: "It's obviously people trying to make a statement about the transfer of policing and justice powers. We are going to have to expect more of this over the next period of time [...] There will be people who will try to disrupt the process," as quoted by the BBC.He commented that he believed the incident was a "one-off" occurrence, and said he tried to reassure concerned locals in the area.Police said IRA dissidents held a Belfast taxi driver at gunpoint in his home and used his vehicle to carry the bomb to the rear of Palace Barracks. Witnesses report hearing an explosion shortly after midnight local time; Al Jazeera puts the precise time of the detonation at 00.24 local time (23.24 UTC). One man was hospitalised following the bombing, although there are no reports of deaths.According to a local journalist, security has cordoned off the area near the explosion.On Friday, an explosion in Sassine Square, in the mainly Christian part of Ashrafiya, killed three and injured more than eighty in a car bomb attack in the Lebanese capital Beirut, including senior Lebanese intelligence official Wissam al-Hassan.The bomb also destroyed several cars and badly damaged a multistory building. Witnesses said it could be heard several kilometers away. The area is home to the headquarters of the Maronite Christian group Kataeb.Although the target of the attack is unclear, it comes at a time of heightened tensions in Lebanon because of the Syrian civil war. The leader of Kataeb, which is also known as the Phalange, Sami al-Gemayel is a strong opponent of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. He said: "Let the state protect the citizens. We will not accept any procrastination in this matter, we cannot continue like that. We have been warning for a year. Enough."Lebanese officials say a car bomb blast in a Christian suburb of the capital Beirut has killed at least six people, including a top security official. The bombing has been criticised by the US Embassy in Lebanon.Red Cross ambulances evacuated at least a dozen casualties, after a powerful explosion tore through rows of parked cars, near a major highway overpass, targeting a top Lebanese police investigator.Firefighters worked feverishly to douse the blazing wreckage of twisted automobiles, as thick plumes of acrid black smoke choked the air.Lebanese security officials say top police investigator Wissam Eid, the apparent target of the blast, died immediately.Eid had reportedly just finished meeting with members of the UN Tribunal investigating the explosion death of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq al Hariri in February 2005.The head of Lebanon's Internal Security Forces, the country's national police force, Ashraf Rifi says that the perpetrator's of the explosion intended today's explosion to be a message to his forces. He says that Eid was a technological expert and engineer, and that he was involved in investigating all recent terrorist bombings.Rifi also stressed that the explosion was the result of a car-bomb, repeating that it was intended as a "message to Lebanon's police and investigating community."Charles Ayoub, the Editor of Lebanon's Ad Diyar newspaper told al Arabiya television that at least 30 to 40 kilos of a TNT were used in the bombing.Lebanese investigators, using sniffer dogs, combed through the rubble of the explosion, looking for clues, but sources say that water used to douse the blaze was making the search extremely difficult.Over 30 major explosions have hit Lebanon since 2005, killing at least ten top politicians, civil servants, army officers, and journalists. Most of the victims were, in some way, opponents of Syria.Several members of parliament from the anti-Syrian March 14 government coalition quickly accused Syria of today's killing. Syria has denied any role in any of the deaths.At least six people were killed earlier today after a car bomb was detonated in the Colombian city of Buenaventura.The incident occurred close to the mayor's office, and damaged a local attorney general office, as well as several taxis in the street. Al Jazeera reports that at least twenty people were wounded, although other news services, such as the Christian Science Monitor, said there were at least forty injured.The head of the country's armed forces, General Freddy Padilla, blamed the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Columbia (FARC) group for the attack, saying that "[s]urely this was the FARC." However, nobody has yet claimed responsibility for the blast.Colombian president Alvaro Uribe, meanwhile, offered a reward worth US$150,000 for information leading to the arrest of those responsible. He told media in Medellin that "we can't let our guard down."Guillermo Mendoza, who is the country's chief prosecutor, commented that he wouldn't rule out the cause of the blast being either a gang fight, or an attack by drug traffickers as retaliation against his office.A car bomb that exploded at about 20:00 MDT Thursday (01:00 Friday UTC) in a violent area of Ciudad Juárez, Mexico killed several people and injured more.Police spokesman Jacinto Seguro said Friday that Mexican federal police received a call that an officer was dead. Seguro went on to say, "When they went to check the car, there was a dead body in there, dressed up like a police officer, but it wasn't one of ours. They put him in a civilian car but dressed him up in a municipal police uniform. That's when the bomb went off. It's like an act of terrorism."Federal police spokesman Ramon Salinas said the blast killed two officers, a paramedic, and one civilian, although Mayor Jose Reyes said that only three died. At least six others were injured, although reports have said the total injured may be as high as sixteen. Four remain in the hospital, including three paramedics and one civilian.Mexican authorities say it was a car bomb, but counter-terrorism experts are still unsure as to what caused the vehicle to explode. Intelligence expert Fred Burton said, "For this to be an improvised grenade attack, in some capacity, it doesn't surprise me."The Juarez cartel, one of the two drug-traffickers in the area, claimed responsibility for the bombing in a graffiti message. "We have more car bombs," the graffiti said.Ciudad Juárez has a history for trafficking drugs to the United States, especially into Texas.Before the explosion, the police arrested a suspected leader of the Juarez cartel, Jesus Armando Acosta Guerrero.This year more than 7,000 people have died as a result of drug-related violence in Mexico since this year began. Attorney General Arturo Chavez on Friday said nearly 25,000 people have died in the last three and a half year period.A bombing has occurred the Pakistani city of Peshawar, killing at least 17 and injuring at least 47 others.Asif Ali Zardari, the acting President of Pakistan, strongly condemned the attacks. He has also stated that the perpetrators of the attacks will be found and brought to justice, and expressed his condolences to the families of the dead.He also stated, in response to the attacks,  that his country was committed to fighting terrorism.Mohammed Bilal was one of the people injured in the attack. He commented on his experiences of the blast. "Something struck me in face, and I fell down. There was fire and smoke and the cries of the injured people," he stated. Local police chief Naveed Khan also commented on the incident. He stated that "it is not possible to prevent this kind of terrorism unless you have extremely credible information." Khan also suggested that chemicals intended to increase the spread of fire were contained in the bomb.The attack destroyed a hotel, a mosque, and set fire to several shops.Yesterday, at least seven people including Aden, Yemen governor Jaafar Mohammed Saad died in a car bomb attack on their convoy in the city of Aden, according to local officials. An online claim of responsibility on behalf of militant group ISIS called Saad a "tyrant".An online post purportedly from the group claimed they detonated the bomb as Saad's convoy passed where the car was parked.  The post shared photos purporting to show Saad's vehicle passing the parked car, and the following explosion.People as much as 10km away reported hearing the explosion, and medics said it left victims' bodies unrecognizable. Photos supposedly of the attack showed a burning, wrecked car. Aden's Jumhoriya Hospital treated the victims.The online statement threatened to "chop off" the "rotten heads" of Yemen's "infidels", and said more attacks are coming.Iran-backed Houthi rebels, who follow Shia Islam, have taken over Yemen's capital of Sanaa. Until just recently, President Abed Rabbo Mansour Hadi's government operated for several months in Saudi Arabia, which has led a coalition involving air strikes against the rebels.Yemeni fatalities in ISIS-claimed bombings this year number reportedly around 159. Yemeni fatalities since March, when Saudi Arabia's pro-Hadi airstrikes began, number at least 5,700 according to the United Nations.Glasgow International Airport in Renfrewshire, Scotland was evacuated after a green Jeep Cherokee struck the airport's terminal building and burst into flames at 1511 BST. An eyewitness told the BBC that "[A] man was on fire." All flights are grounded, and two men have been arrested and the United Kingdom has raised the national threat level to "critical" which means another terror attack is imminent.Eyewitnesses described a Jeep speeding toward the building with flames coming out from underneath.  They also reported seeing two Asian men in the car, one of whom was on fire.The BBC quoted an eyewitness as saying that two attempts were made to ram the Jeep through the wall, and that the passenger was holding a lit Molotov Cocktail and made several attempts to throw the bottle.The Strathclyde Police Chief announced that the event is being linked to the earlier attempted car bombings in London, and as such is being treated as a terrorist investigation.Eyewitnesses are now saying that one of the two men was pouring bottles of petrol into the car's interior and onto himself, before running from the car, on fire, into the main terminal building. Witnesses have also reported that gas cylinders were removed by bystanders from the burning vehicle.According to the BBC, the driver of the vehicle put up a violent struggle before being overpowered by the police and public. One person who tackled him was Stephen Clarkson, a member of the public.Richard Gray, an eyewitness to the event, stated "There was an Asian guy who was pulled out of the car by two police officers."Seven people have been taken to local hospitals with injuries.Police said that this incident was a deliberate attempt and not a road accident. Officials have also said that the incident is connected to earlier attempted car bombings in London the day before. Two people have been arrested, one of whom was badly burned. Seven known casualties, including the Asian male have been taken to the Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley.While the suspect was being treated in the hospital, a suspect device was discovered in the hospital, resulting in the partial evacuation of the building while the device was moved to a safe area.  This object later turned out to be mundane, although initial reports believed it to be a suicide belt.The BBC announced that the Prime Minister is being kept fully informed.  He chaired a meeting of Civil Contingencies Committee (COBRA) at 1900 (BST), after which the Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith, announced that the national threat level been elevated from "Severe" to "Critical", meaning another attack is expected "imminently."Officials at Edinburgh Airport have said that all cars are being turned away from the airport, and at Heathrow in London, passengers are being advised not to bring private cars near to the terminal buildings. Some passengers were kept waiting in planes while the area was secured.The first bomber, who was taken to Govan high security prison, has now been interviewed, though no further statements from Strathclyde police have been forthcoming. The second bomber, who was taken to the Royal Alexandria hospital in Paisley, is listed in critical condition tonight, and is being kept under 24-hour guard.2,300 passengers who were due to set off from Glasgow Airport today have been driven by coach to a conference centre, where a reception area has been set up for them.Two people were arrested by The Metropolitan Police Anti-Terrorist Branch on the M6 motorway in Cheshire in connection with the Glasgow International Airport attack and attempted London car bombings.The Prime Minister Gordon Brown is expected to hold another COBRA meeting with other members of the Cabinet today.  This will be the fifth COBRA meeting in 48 hours.A car bomb exploded in a car traveling on the A1 highway north of Paris, France, killing one man.  The incident happened in the département of Seine-Saint-Denis, near the Paris suburb of La Courneuve.A passenger in the car was injured and hospitalized. The passenger, whose life is not in danger, was to be questioned.A French fire brigade received the call just before 10:00AM GMT to put out a car fire. A criminal act is suspected — terrorism has been discounted, although murder by planting a bomb in a victim's car is said to be unusual in France. Checks were to be done for a possible criminal background of the dead man.Police have said that an explosion in a hotel garage in San Pedro, Los Angeles, California, that sparked an evacuation of a large area was an act of vandalism. What was initially thought to be an explosion, at around 7:30am local time, forced police to shut off a major entrance into the area prompted the Clarion Inn, a two-story hotel, and surrounding buildings to be evacuated. A bomb squad were called to the scene, and an armored robot was sent into the garage to examine the scene.Los Angeles Police Department Lieutenant John Romero said that investigators were treating the incident as an act of vandalism, and said that detectives will be examining surveillance footage of the garage. He confirmed that a caller had reported an explosion in the area. Officers who responded did not initially find anything suspicious, but a short time later a Port Police officer on patrol discovered a Lincoln Navigator with its windows blown out in an underground garage. The Los Angeles Fire Department also responded to the call."On closer inspection and using their training, bomb squad is confident the damage was caused by something other than a bomb. Based on what we know now, they're scaling the operation way back," he said. "There's any variety of things that can sound like a bomb or a blast, particularly in a subterranean environment. The danger has passed." He refused to speculate as to what may have caused the damage, or, if it was not a bomb, where the noise had come from. He added: "Now that the robots have gone forward and had a good look, we are confidant there was not an explosion. There was a hole blown in the door, and the glass was blown out so, now we have to find out who did it."A witness, the owner of a diner two blocks away from the hotel, said that he heard a loud sound while preparing the day's menu. He said: "I was cooking my food and I heard something like 'boom'! I said, 'What happened?' And I checked everything in the kitchen but saw nothing. An hour later I went outside and saw a lot of police." Romero added that the vehicle had shown signs of an explosion and that no one in the hotel was killed or injured. At 8:20 a.m. the police issued a citywide tactical alert and surrounding streets were closed to the public. Police have said that there is shattered glass surrounding the vehicle and one of the doors exhibits evidence that an explosion had taken place. Romero added: "We still want to be very careful how to proceed. Something did happen to the car. Now they have to figure out what happened and who did it."A startled jogger asked construction workers for help after spotting a coyote in downtown Sarnia and hearing it bark. Sarnia police responded to the 911 call at Centennial Park in southern Ontario, Canada and surrounded the coyote.It was then that it was discovered that the coyote was a cardboard cutout of a coyote placed in the park to ward off Canada geese. Police confiscated the coyote following the incident.City officials installed the cardboard coyote last summer, and hope to erect them this summer as well.“They do look pretty real. We don’t want to embarrass anyone, the police or the jogger. It’s an easy mistake to make. Maybe they look too real” said Terry McCallum, Sarnia’s director of community services, “We just figured vandals took them. You can't put up any really fancy signs in the park because they usually disappear.”The Panamanian cargo Vessel "New Flame", carrying a cargo of scrap metal and the Danish Product Tanker "Torm Gertrude" collided in Gibraltar waters, one kilometre south of Europa Point, Gibraltar at 05.55 hrs on Sunday August 12, 2007. All 23 crewmen were safely rescued, the captain was later arrested by the Royal Gibraltar Police.Prosecutors have withdrawn their case against John Mark Karr, the man who confessed to killing JonBenet Ramsey in 1996, as DNA tests do not place him at the crime scene."The people would not be able to establish that Mr. Karr committed this crime despite his repeated insistence that he did," District Attorney Mary Lacy said in court papers. Lacy also said that prosecutors found no evidence placing Karr in Boulder at the time of the killing. She also vowed to keep pursuing leads in the murder, saying, "This case is not closed."Karr will remain in custody in Boulder until he can be sent to Sonoma County, Calif., to face child pornography charges dating from 2001.According to reports by MSNBC and KUSA, a local television station in Denver, Colorado, tests performed on DNA samples taken from Karr do not match samples recovered from Ramsey's body. On its website, KUSA says it "has confirmed from two sources that the DNA taken from John Mark Karr, 41, does not match the DNA samples taken from the crime scene in the JonBenet Ramsey murder case. No charges will be filed against Karr in connection with the Ramsey case by the Boulder County District Attorney's office." DNA from Karr's hair and saliva were tested in the Denver, Colorado Police Department's lab over the weekend."This information is critical because … if Mr. Karr's account of his sexual involvement with the victim were accurate, it would have been highly likely that his saliva would have been mixed with the blood in the underwear," said Colorado District Attorney, Mary Lacy.  Lacy noted that Karr had become a suspect after exchanging e-mail with a professor in California.Karr's attorney has requested that all DNA evidence be handed over to the defense for examination. His attorney has also requested additional testing of Karr's DNA; however, there is confusion about who represents Karr. Seth Temin, a public defender claims to represent Karr, but at least two other attorneys in California, Jamie Harmon and Patience Van Zandt, are also claiming to represent him."The warrant on Mr. Karr has been dropped by the district attorney. They are not proceeding with the case," said Timen. "We're deeply distressed by the fact that they took this man and dragged him here from Bangkok, Thailand, with no forensic evidence confirming the allegations against him and no independent factors leading to a presumption he did anything wrong," added Timen.JonBenét, a beauty queen, was found beaten and strangled to death in her Colorado home on the day after Christmas in 1996.In a press conference earlier this month, Karr confessed to being with JonBenét when she died, adding that her death was an accident. "I was with JonBenét when she died. I loved JonBenét. She died accidentally. I am so very sorry for what happened to JonBenét. It's very important for me that everyone knows that I love her very much, that her death was unintentional, that it was an accident."Despite his confession, Karr's then ex-wife said that he was in Alabama with her when the murder occurred.Catholic priest Andrea Santore, 61, who was based at the Trabzon Santa Maria Catholic Church was shot dead during prayer in the northern Turkish province of Trabzon on Sunday. The murderer, a 17-18 year old man is being sought by the police. The killer entered the church at 3:45 pm and shot the Italian priest from behind. Andrea Santore was praying at the time.Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan condemned the assassination of a Catholic priest. Many people in Turkey associate this incident with the current crisis over the publication of cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in European papers.A British man, held in Thailand for e-mailing threats to executives of United Kingdom retailer Tesco, has admitted to the scheme and apologized."What I did was very misguided, a silly idea that I took so far," Alexander Winstone's statement reads. "I would like to stress that it was never my intention to cause anybody any harm or hurt, and as I was working alone it was impossible for me to do so."Lastly, I would like to apologize to Tesco Plc and its staff for the distress that this must have caused and to the members of the Royal Thai and British police forces for wasting their time and resources."Winstone, 36, sent e-mails to Tesco in May, demanding £2 million (about US$4 million) in exchange for not tampering with products sold by the U.K.'s biggest retailer.Scotland Yard traced the e-mails to an Internet cafe in the Nana area of Sukhumvit Road in Bangkok. Winstead was present in surveillance videos in the cafe, and he was captured in another Internet cafe nearby.How Winstone planned to implement his scheme is unknown. Tesco operates 57 Tesco Lotus hypermarkets in Thailand, as well as 309 Tesco Express convenience stores. Winstone was brought in yesterday for questioning by Royal Thai Police. He faces up to five years in jail in Thailand, or he could be extradited to the U.K."We take this to be a serious crime and no laughing matter. We will be happy to put this man on trial in Thailand for attempted extortion if the British authorities do not ask for his extradition," Police General Issaraphan Sanitwong na Ayutthaya was quoted as saying by the Bangkok Post.CBS program The Early Show ran a segment Monday about the Tigger incident at Florida theme park Walt Disney World, which a company blog later criticized.CBS runs a regularly updated feed on its website, entitled "The Public Eye". It was created by the television station to "bring transparency to the editorial operations" of that department. It went one step further, recently, when criticising their program's actions.The post knocked co-anchor Hannah Strom, who "did not challenge the family's characterization of the incident." Writer Brian Montopoli commented that "we'd like to think that we would have brought somewhat more skepticism to the table".On Sunday, video broke internationally of Disney employee Michael J. Fedelem as Tigger, hitting teen Jerry Monaco Jr. in the head. The New Hampshire tourist and his father both claim the hit was unprovoked. They claimed Jerry Jr. needed medical attention and prescription medicine that night."Nuh, no provokin' at all, ya know, it was all out of the blue." Junior told FOX News the day before.The CBS interview was even featured in that morning's post-show email from CBS The Early Show.The comments were made by Montopoli, associate producer of this section.The British celebrity chef John Burton Race has been charged with the offence of drink-driving.The chef, who is famous for starring in such programmes as French Leave and Return of the Chef, was pulled over by police on the A379 road in the county of Devon, England. The location was near to his restaurant entitled, "The New Angel". It was a routine check that took place in the early hours of Friday morning. After a breathalyser test, the chef was arrested for drink-driving. Another offence that he is being charged with is "resisting or obstructing a constable", which means to resist arrest.A Devon and Cornwall Constabulary spokeswoman released a statement to Sky News which said: "John Burton Race, 52, was arrested on October 30 at about 1am. He has been charged with driving or attempting to drive with excess alcohol and resisting or obstructing a constable in the execution of their duty."John has now been released on an unconditional bail. He is expected to appear before magistrates in a courtroom in Newton Abbot on November 17, 2009.A Chadian court today sentenced six French aid workers to eight years of hard labour for their role in a plot to kidnap 103 African children and fly them to France. The four men and two women have been in custody since October 25. They were also ordered to pay damages for each of the 103 children totaling the equivalent of US$9 million.Two others, a Chadian and a Sudenese national, were each sentenced to four years, while two other Chadians were found not guilty.The six French aid workers just sentenced belong to Zoe's Ark, a French charity, which had arranged for 103 children to be flown out of Chad, in what the charity described as an attempt to rescue them from the humanitarian crisis created as a result of the neighbouring Darfur conflict. However, on Wednesday a Chadian court found the six aid workers guilty of attempting to kidnap the children. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees had earlier revealed that many of the children involved were not orphans.On November 4, seven associates of the aid workers were set free, having been exonerated of any wrongdoing in the affair.Due to a 1976 agreement between France and Chad regarding judicial affairs, France has indicated it will press for the transfer of its nationals back to France to serve out their time in a French prison. "France, after obtaining the agreement of the members of Zoe's Ark, and examining the implementation of the judicial co-operation accord between France and Chad, in particular article 29, will ask the Chadian authorities for the transfer of the prisoners to France," said Pascale Andreani, spokesperson for the French foreign ministry.Violence between Rebels and the Chadian military started in Chad as rebel groups are continuing to advance on the N'djamena, the capital of Chad. IRIN has reported that the government of Chad responded to the move by the rebel groups by placing tanks across N'djamena. The chief of the Chadian military has said that the battle has ended with the rebels being "entirely destroyed this column after 40 minutes of fighting," a claim which has been denied by the rebel groups. Timan Edrimi, one of the leaders made an opposing claim  by saying that "The army attacked us [the rebels] 40 kilometres from Massaguet, but we drove them back" The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has said in a press release that "a series of armed attacks on the UN refugee agency and other aid organisations has forced UNHCR to evacuate most of its staff from its office in Guereda in eastern Chad." A representative for the organisation said "We [the UNHCR] are left only with one choice, much to our regret, which is to relocate most staff out of Guereda area, as we cannot continue to perform our activities in favor of refugees."According to AFP, the European Union force (EUFOR) has suspended all flights to Chad, although it was made clear that this was only a temporary delay. The commander of EUFOR in Chad said he did not consider a danger to EUFOR and he said that he would not consider it a danger "unless during their offensive they threaten or attack civilians, or the non-governmental organisations, or UN personnel."Earlier today, the government of Chad set free three French journalists and four Spanish flight attendants, who had been held since October 25. Chadian authorities had been investigating the role of the seven and 14 other suspects with regard to an attempt to fly 103 African children to Europe for placement with host families.The release of the seven came as French President Nicolas Sarkozy arrived in Chad to hold talks on the case with Chadian officials. The lawyer for the seven, Jean-Bernard Padare, told Reuters that the seven were free to collect their belongings from the courthouse. "They are happy, they are free," said Padare. "It's the end."A French charity, Zoe's Ark, had arranged for the 103 children to be flown out of Chad in an attempt to rescue them from the humanitarian crisis created as a result of the neighbouring Darfur conflict. However, Chadian officials have since described the operation as "kidnapping" and "extortion", while the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees revealed that many of the children involved were not orphans.According to Radio France, Eric Breteau, the founder of Zoe's Ark charity, spoke at a pretrial hearing in N'Djamena, Chad and stated that the seven released Europeans had not been involved with the charity's plans.Ten other Europeans are still being held in Chad and are facing child abduction and fraud charges.The Chadian army says they killed prominent militant Islamist Mokhtar Belmokhtar in Mali on Saturday. Belmokhtar claimed responsibility for an attack at an Algerian gas plant in January which led to the deaths of 37 hostages.In a statement read on Chadian national television, an armed forces spokesperson said: "On Saturday, March 2, at noon, Chadian armed forces operating in northern Mali completely destroyed a terrorist base [...] The toll included several dead terrorists, including their leader Mokhtar Belmokhta." The announcement of his death comes a day after the President of Chad Idriss Deby announced the senior Al-Qaeda commander Adelhamid Abou Zeid had been killed by French forces in Northern Mali.His death, if confirmed, is part of a larger conflict in the area. Islamist rebels have already been pushed back from towns such as Gao in Northern Mali. The British Foreign Secretary William Hague said "It would be a blow to terrorism and to the criminal network around this man and other people. But it doesn't mean that the problems of Mali would be at an end. There's a lot to do to promote a political process in Mali: elections, legitimate government and so on. That work has to go on".Chad is working alongside France and other African nations in a force aimed at regaining control of Northern Mali which has been seized by Islamist rebels. Belmokhtar lost an eye whilst fighting in an Islamist insurgency in the 1990s; he has spent over two decades in militant Islamism. Also a former member of the Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM), he left to create his own militant group.There are concerns over the fate of seven French hostages taken in Mali; the French government has not confirmed the announcements from Chad of the deaths of prominent Al-Qaeda commander Abdelhamid Abou Zeid and Mokhtar Belmokhtar. Didier Beguin, a member of the support committee for another group of French hostages, said: "This is a rumour that is enormously worrying for the families and those of us who support them".Despite the White House's initial assertion that Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey was dismissed Tuesday over mishandling the Hillary Clinton email case, United States President Donald Trump on Thursday told NBC that "this Russia thing" was among his reasons, mentioning Comey's repeated claims that he, Trump, was not being investigated.  He also accused Comey of "showboating" and said "the FBI has been in turmoil."James Comey was leading an investigation into the Trump campaign's alleged ties to Russia and possible Russian involvement in the 2016 US presidential election that placed Trump in power.  The official reason given for his dismissal, overly harsh treatment of then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, was met with skepticism from politicians and the press.President Trump also told NBC's Lester Holt that, despite statements to the contrary by Vice President Pence and Sean Spicer, recommendations from deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein did not have anything to do with his decision, which he made before receiving Rosenstein's memo. "Regardless of recommendation I was going to fire Comey. Knowing, there was no good time to do it[...] And, in fact, when I decided to just do it, I said to myself, I said: 'You know, this Russia thing with Trump and Russia is a made up story, it's an excuse by the Democrats for having lost an election that they should've won.'" He went on to express regret that firing Comey might prolong the investigation and said Comey had told him that he, Trump, was not under investigation when asked.Trump told NBC that he had asked Comey if he, Trump, were under investigation, to which Comey had replied in the negative.  While it is not illegal under U.S. law for President Trump to ask if he is under investigation, former U.S. Department of Justice spokesperson Matthew Miller described it as "completely inappropriate" and pointed out that Comey would not be allowed to answer under Department rules.Deputy White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders disagreed with Miller's assessment. "I don't see it as a conflict of interest and neither do many of the legal scholars who've been commenting on it over the last hour." She did not elaborate on the reference to legal scholars.While some sources have said Comey requested more resources for the Russia investigation only days before being fired, one of his associates told news outlets this was not true and the investigation had no shortage of resources.In his interview with Holt, President Trump affirmed that his campaign had no connections to Russia.Four candidates for Comey's position were scheduled to be interviewed today: a lawyer named Alice Fisher, an appeals court judge named Michael Garcia, Senator John Cornyn of Texas, and Andrew McCabe, who is currently serving as acting director of the FBI. McCabe has promised to "vigorously and completely" continue the Russia investigation and to tell Congress if any pressure is brought to bear to stop it.Brisbane mother Sally Faulkner and the crew of Australian current affairs program 60 Minutes are free to leave Lebanon after kidnapping charges against them were today dropped.Faulkner reportedly made a deal to secure her release, accepting her estranged husband Ali el-Amine's custody of her two children. This comes after she allegedly hired professionals to abduct the children in Beirut on April 7 while in the care of their Lebanese grandmother.While personal charges against Australian journalist Tara Brown, her three crew members and Faulkner have been dropped, they still face criminal charges in Lebanon of kidnapping and being members of a criminal gang.  If the state chooses to pursue these charges, it could require the accused to return to answer them.Channel Nine Middle East correspondent Tom Steinfort said that Nine's lawyers have confirmed bail has been paid for the TV crew, and that they will fly to Australia from Beirut tonight. The deal between El-Amine and Channel Nine resulted in a significant financial settlement, Fairfax Media reports.El-Amine is still pursuing charges carrying a maximum 20-year sentence against the crew of Child Abduction Recovery International (CARI) who allegedly conducted the operation. Adam Whittington of CARI, along with several others involved in the alleged kidnapping, remained in custody. Their lawyers claimed positive developments in the case, saying "everyone will take advantage of the deal."In remarks on Monday to News Corp Australia, Whittington said he has receipts for A$115,000 paid directly by the Nine Network to fund the operation.According to Steinfort, in dropping charges against the 60 Minutes crew, El-Amine told Judge Rami Abdullah the reporters were 'just doing their job', and later joked to Steinfort about his relationship with Channel Nine.Convicted cult leader and murderer Charles Manson has released his album One Mind under a free content license. The album was already released on April 7, 2005, but now it has become available under the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Share-Alike 2.0 License. This means that anyone can remix and share the album for non-commercial purposes, as long as they give proper credit and use the same license.The website Family Jams (Manson’s record label), which offers hard-copies of the CD, says that "ONE MIND is pure Charlie, no additions, no corrections, no added opinions, filters or editing... consisting of songs, trance-poetry, conversations, raps, ramblings, musings and more." The cover-art is a painting by Manson, liner notes include excerpts from his letters, and, as the sites mentions, song titles and interludes are by friends or editors.The disc has 16 tracks, totalling almost 76 minutes of Manson's work. The CD can be bought on the Family Jams site for $15.00 in the U.S. and Canada, and for $17.50 in other countries. Because of the new license, the tracks can be legally downloaded, and samples can be used for derived works.Manson was part of the Los Angeles music scene before his conviction as leader of the Manson Family commune. He was close to Beach Boy Dennis Wilson —Manson wrote the song 'Never Learn Not to Love' for the Beach Boys.In 1970, Manson released the album Lie: The Love & Terror Cult to finance his trial. The Manson Family also released The Family Jams, with songs written by Manson. Manson has released several albums since.Groups such as Nine Inch Nails have previously released some of their work under a free license.In a related story, Lindsay Lohan will play Nancy Pitman in an upcoming movie called Manson Girls. Lohan has previously revealed that she was fascinated by Manson during her "dark period" before she sought help for drug and alcohol addiction in 2007: "Yeah, I have a dark side. I watched all those videos on Charles Manson for a while." Lohan also stars in the movie Chapter 27 about John Lennon's assassination.Charles Manson, whose "Manson family" followers killed nine people in 1969 and whose death sentence became nine life sentences after the state of California, United States, outlawed the death sentence, died on Sunday in a hospital in Bakersfield of natural causes, according to the California Department of Corrections.Manson inspired, but did not participate in, what became known as the Tate-LaBianca murders. On August 9, 1969, at the home of actress Sharon Tate and her husband, director Roman Polanski, followers of Manson stabbed five people to death: Tate, who was more than eight months pregnant; Abigail Folger, heiress to the Folgers coffee fortune; celebrity hairdresser Jay Sebring; director Voityck Frykowski; and Steven Parent who knew the caretaker of the estate. On August 10 they further killed wealthy Leno and Rosemary LaBianca. The seventh and eighth victims were Hollywood stuntman Donald Shea, and musician Gary Hinman. In 1971, after a year-long trial, Manson was convicted of ordering the first seven murders and sentenced to death. Eventually he was convicted of the other two murders as well."Helter Skelter", the name of a song by The Beatles, and "pig" were scrawled in blood at the murder sites. According to prosecutors, Manson meant the killings to be blamed on blacks, setting off a race war in the US, to be followed by a new social order led by Manson.Manson's sentence was commuted to nine life terms after a 1972 Supreme Court of California decision outlawed the death penalty. He was in prison for more than four decades, and was an inmate at the California State Prison, Corcoran when he died. He made twelve unsuccessful applications for parole, the last in 2012. Sources told TMZ that he was hospitalized in Bakersfield several days before his death. If his family do not claim his body within ten days, it will be disposed of at state expense, probably by cremation.Charles Taylor, the former President of Liberia, has been today handed a 50-year sentence for war crimes in neighbouring Sierra Leone. The court previously held he financed a war which left an estimated 50,000 dead.Taylor, 64, is considered likely to remain incarcerated for life if the sentence stands, but his legal team has vowed to appeal. The prosecution sought an 80-year sentence. Taylor's is the first conviction of a head of state by an international tribunal since the fallout from World War Two, when the Nuremberg trials were underway.The Special Court for Sierra Leone, which is operating from the Netherlands to avoid unrest if Taylor were tried in Africa, spent more than a year deliberating before convicting Taylor last month. Acquitted of ordering crimes or of acting in a joint enterprise to conduct them, he was nonetheless convicted of aiding and abetting the offences. There were 94 prosecution witnesses and 21 for the defence.The allegations date to civil war in Sierra Leone, which ran from 1991 to 2002. Taylor, who had been a warlord since the '80s, backed the rebel Revolutionary United Front (RUF). Taylor was elected Liberian president in 1997 after a different civil war concluded. Six years later he was ousted when an arrest warrant was issued and fled to Nigeria. He was arrested there in 2006 whilst again trying to flee and went on trial later that year. Taylor, who had been facing a rebellion against him since 1999 in Liberia, received training from late Libyan ruler Colonel Muammar Gaddafi's regime.Testimony included claims that Taylor-backed fighters adorned roads with human intestines and ate human flesh. One claimed to have seen Taylor himself eat human liver, something Taylor denied. One described asking RUF rebels to sever his only hand in exchange for his young son's life.Further allegations said teenage children were involved in the fighting and that Taylor sold illegally mined diamonds to finance arms purchases for the RUF. Western celebrities Naomi Campbell, a model, and Mia Farrow, an actress, described an incident at a charity dinner held by Nelson Mandella, then South Africa's head, in 1997. Campbell and Farrow said Taylor gifted Campbell a number of diamonds. Taylor is claimed to have ordered seizure of Sierra Leone's diamond deposits by RUF soldiers.It was claimed in court that child soldiers were used in conflict, as diamond mine guards, and to carry out amputations. Allegations of forced amputation were made. Taylor was convicted in late April of aiding and abetting forcing amputation, as well as rape, murder, child soldier recruitment, sexual slavery, and pillaging.The court's panel of judges, presided over by Judge Richard Lussick, heard a 30-minute address by Taylor at an earlier sentencing hearing. "I express my sadness and sympathy for crimes suffered by individuals and families in Sierra Leone," said Taylor, adding he acted "with honour" and as a peacemaker, asking for "reconciliation, not retribution" in sentencing. Taylor also gave evidence at his own trial, spending seven months of testimony saying he strove for peace in the region.Lussick noted the panel felt 80 years to be excessive given that Taylor was cleared of directly carrying out offences. However, the court found other factors aggravated the case: In particular, he was a head of state. "Leadership must be carried out by example by the prosecution of crimes, not the commission of crimes," Lussick said in court. "The special status of Mr. Taylor as a head of state puts him in a different category of offenders for the purpose of sentencing," the judge said, with the convict "in a class of his own"."[His] positions both as president of Liberia and within the west African regional bodies distinguish him from any other individual that has appeared before this court," Prosecutor Brenda Hollis said at a sentencing hearing. "Taylor's abuse of his authority and influence is especially egregious given that west African leaders repeatedly entrusted him with a role to facilitate peace." She had claimed "No significant mitigating circumstances exist in this case."Lussick also told the court today Taylor stood convicted of "aiding and abetting, as well as planning, some of the most heinous and brutal crimes recorded in human history". "The lives of many more innocent civilians in Sierra Leone were lost or destroyed as a direct result of his actions." These were, the court said, crimes of the "utmost gravity in terms of scale and brutality". The prosecution had claimed Taylor followed no more motivation beyond simple greed and power lust. Lussick said today the judges were unanimous in imposing a term of 50 years.The defence had called for a sentence that gave Taylor a realistic prospect of eventual release. They also noted he is set to be sent to the United Kingdom to serve sentence. The defendant would be "culturally isolated", facing a "punishment within a punishment". At least one war crimes convict has been attacked in prison in the UK, and it is anticipated Taylor will end up in a high-security prison after the UK Foreign Office has promised to uphold an agreement to imprison him there made by ex-Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett."The sentence is clearly excessive, clearly disproportionate to his circumstances, his age and his health and does not take into account the fact that he stepped down from office voluntarily," said counsel for the accused Morris Anya. The prosecution may also appeal the sentencing, and the verdict itself with intent to increase Taylor's convictions beyond merely aiding and abetting. The defence also intends to appeal the verdict. The appeals process means Taylor is likely to remain at The Hague for several months, where the court has been holding sessions in nearby Leidschendam. He is the last defendant to face trial before the Special Court, which has previously convicted and sentenced eight other prominent figures in the conflict.Former Liberian president Charles Taylor, who is facing charges of war crimes for his role in the Sierra Leone Civil War, has decided to boycott the proceedings at The Hague under the auspices of the Special Court for Sierra Leone. He faces 11 charges of war crimes, all of which he denies.Taylor claims that his trial will not be fair as he only has one defense lawyer. "He has not thumbed his nose at the court," said Karim Khan, his counsel, before producing the letter in which Taylor said he would "not receive a fair trial at the Special Court at this time."Chief Prosecutor Stephen Rapp disagrees with Taylor's assessment. Taylor, he says, has been assigned a lawyer, a special investigator and funds. "Everything that can be done is being done," Rapp told the Special Court.On Friday, United States Federal District Judge Michael Urbanski sentenced Ohio man James Alex Fields, now 22, to life in prison without the possibility of parole for driving his car into a crowd of people who were counter-protesting against white supremacists attending the August 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. In that event, Fields, a self-described Neo-Nazi, killed a woman named Heather Heyer and injured at least nineteen others.The hearings and motions leading up to the announcement included video footage of the collision between Fields' car and the crowd, testimony from eyewitnesses, an apology from Fields, and requests for leniency from Fields' lawyers, who argued his history of mental illness.Last March, Fields made an arrangement with prosecutors to plead guilty to 29 out of 30 federal hate crime charges on condition they would not seek the death penalty. Susan Bro, Heather Heyer's mother, told reporters she considered the deal acceptable, saying executing Fields would not bring her daughter back.The Unite the Right rally drew national attention within the United States partly because President Donald Trump claimed there were "fine people on both sides," meaning both the white supremacists and the counter-protesters, for which he was criticized.This sentence applies to the federal charges against Fields, those issued by the United States' central government. He has already been found guilty of criminal charges under the laws of the State of Virginia, with a jury-recommended sentence of life plus 419 years and fines of nearly half a million US dollars.  State sentencing has been scheduled for July.The owners of the Noodle House Restaurant of Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island (P.E.I.), Canada were overwhelmed by community support Tuesday when the restaurant overflowed with customers, cards, flowers, and personal pleas to not leave the province.According to CBC News Prince Edward Island, the recent outpouring of support occurred after Tommy and Lina Ko, the restaurant owners, announced they would close the restaurant and leave the province following an incident two weeks ago, when groups of up to 200 teens from two nearby schools surrounded the restaurant, pelting it with snowballs, and threatening the Kos. Charlottetown Police Chief Paul Smith told CBC PEI that his force is ready to take whatever action is necessary to crack down on the behaviour and last week started videotaping over lunchtime when most of the misbehaviour has taken place.  Police noted that they have received complaints from other businesses, pedestrians, and drivers in the busy "fast food alley" and intend to seek co-operation from the schools in identifying the main culprits.However, a CBC PEI story from October, 2002, reported the Kos asking police to do more to stop the littering and other vandalism in the area including having signs smashed, windows broken, and fireworks set off in front of their restaurant.  At that time, Deputy Chief Richard Collins told CBC PEI: "You can't have upwards of 1,500 to 2,000 students in and around that area at dinner hour and not expect for some of them to misbehave," but promised to continue patrols and try to teach the students respect of property.Tommy Ko told CBC News that he was overwhelmed by the support this week and in thanks put on a surprise free buffet, though customers insisted on paying anyway. Nevertheless, after fighting the harassment for some five years, the Kos say they still are not sure they want to stay.A Russian passenger train has been derailed by an explosion on Sunday, the FSB has said in a statement. A FSB spokesman said 12 people have been injured, when two carriages of a train heading from the Chechen capital Grozny derailed 90 miles south of Moscow.Officials have reported that two people have been rushed to hospital, while others who sustained lighter injuries were offered medical assistance at the crash site and delivered to Moscow by commuter train. The spokesman did not say who might be responsible for the attack on the train, which at the time was carrying more than 300 passengers.Only an hour prior to the incident, a train carrying elementary school pupils from Beslan, North Ossetia on their way to Croatia passed on the same track. 56 children were heading to a Moscow airport, from where they flew to Zagreb. In September last year, 172 children died in the Beslan school hostage crisis.The president of Russia's Chechnya region has launched a libel action against the head of Russian rights group Memorial. Ramzan Kadyrov is seeking ten million rubles (£207,800) from Oleg Orlov who accused him of involvement in the kidnap and murder of another rights activist.Orlov has told the court he did not mean direct involvement, but "political guilt" when he laid responsibility for Natalya Estemirova's slaying upon Kadyrov. "I didn't speak of his involvement, I spoke of his guilt. These are two different things," Orlov testified.Kadyrov did not appear in court but his lawyer, Andrei Krasnenkov, neither called witnesses nor questioned those brought by the defence. Krasnenkov said Orlov's words were helping destabilize Chechnya and told reporters that "Human rights defenders are miserable people."Estemirova had been threatened several times by Kadyrov and had fled Russia previously as a result, sometimes for months.  Her death prompted the closure of Memorial's Chechnyan office. She was, Kadyrov said, "without honour or a sense of shame." Memorial say they hope the court case, which gets under way on October 6, will reveal new evidence of serious crimes they claim Kadyrov routinely ignores. These include extra-judicial killings, kidnap, torture, and arson attacks.In England, John Terry, captain of the Chelsea football team, has been found not guilty of a racially aggravated public order offence. Terry had been accused of racially abusing Queens Park Rangers (QPR) defender Anton Ferdinand, another football player, as a match between Chelsea and QPR was in progress. Terry, who had said he was "angry and upset" about the allegations, was alleged to have said the words "fucking black cunt" in an insulting manner to Ferdinand. During the trial at Westminster Magistrates' Court, Terry stated he had been repeating words Ferdinand had accused him of saying.Chief Magistrate Howard Riddle said that although there was "no doubt that John Terry uttered the words 'fucking black cunt' at Anton Ferdinand", the evidence for the prosecution's side was "not strong" and there was a possibility "that what [Terry] said was not intended as an insult, but rather as a challenge to what he believed had been said to him." Therefore, "[i]n those circumstances, there being a doubt, the only verdict the court can record is one of not guilty", Riddle concluded.Although Terry refused to make any comment as he departed from the court, some Chelsea F.C. supporters cheered him. Both of Ferdinand's parents also refused to comment, with his father Julian saying only: "I have nothing to say to you at all." As the verdict was declared, there was cheering in the court's public gallery.Speaking outside the courtroom, Dan Morrison — John Terry's lawyer — stated Terry "consistently explained his position to the FA, the police and to the court." Terry "did not racially abuse Mr Ferdinand and the court has accepted this", Morrison said. Bruce Buck, the Chairman of Chelsea F.C., commented: "We are pleased that John can now put his mind back to football, return to training and do what he has been doing for many years."Alison Saunders, London Chief Crown Prosecutor, justified the decision of the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) to take this case to court by saying "[t]he very serious allegation at the heart of this case was one of racial abuse." The CPS believed "this was not 'banter' on the football pitch and that the allegation should be judged by a court", Saunders clarified. She called Terry's not guilty verdict "justice being done and we respect the chief magistrate's decision."A spokesperson for the Football Association (FA) said the association "notes the decision in the John Terry case and will now seek to conclude its own inquiries". The FA intends to resume its inquiry into the events next week.The constitution includes the creation of a speaker for the legislative council and would be the third in line of succession, behind the Principal Chief and Deputy Chief.  The constitution also changes the name of the Judicial Appeals Tribunal to the Supreme Court and increases its size from three to five.  Another provision is a two consecutive term limit for elected officials.Principle Chief Chad Smith said. "This is a historic day for the Cherokee Nation ... our constitution requires that the people review our constitutional laws every 20 years, and modify when necessary. Today, the (Supreme) Court has reaffirmed the obvious, we were a government exercising inherent sovereignty before there was a United States. The greatest exercise of that sovereignty is to pass our own constitution, without interference from outsiders."For a side-by-side comparison of the 1976 and 1999 constitutions, see The 1999 Constitution of the Cherokee Nation: A review and comparison between the 1976 and 1999 Constitutions of the Cherokee Nation in preparation for the Ratification Vote on July 26, 2003.Former world chess champion Bobby Fischer will move from Japan to his new home of Iceland despite requests from the USA for his deportation to the US. Mr Fischer had been held in Japan since last July when he was arrested on what US officials claimed was an invalid US passport.  He was freed from detention on March 23 after 9 months in confinement.Mr Fischer is wanted in the USA for violating Executive Order 12810, signed by then-President George H. W. Bush in 1992.  EO 12810 placed sanctions on the former Yugoslavia, where Mr Fischer played a chess match in 1992 against Boris Spassky.  If Mr Fischer had been sent to the US, he would have faced a ten year prison term.  The U.S. revoked his passport in 2003 and Mr Fischer was later arrested at Narita Airport while trying to leave Japan en route to the Philippines.Following an appeal by Mr Fischer's supporters, the parliament of Iceland granted Mr Fischer an Icelandic passport on Monday. Mr Fischer won the world championship in Reykjavik, Iceland in 1972, against Mr Spassky, then of the Soviet Union, and Mr Fischer remains popular among Icelanders.  (Mr Spassky became a French citizen in 1978).  The 1992 rematch was billed as as being for the "World Championship", although by then most chess fans recognized Garry Kasparov as the world's #1 player.Iceland's ambassador to Japan, Thordur Oskarsson, said that the US government had sent a message of displeasure to the Icelandic government before its parliament passed the bill allowing for Mr Fischer's citizenship. Mr Oskarsson went on to say that, "Despite the message, the decision was put through Parliament on humanitarian grounds".A Nigerian government official has said that gunmen attacked an oil pipeline operated by a Nigerian subsidiary of Chevron in the country's restive Niger Delta yesterday.  The incident took place about a hundred kilometres (60 miles) southwest of the city of Warri. The incident comes five days after an attack killed four Chevron employees.The attacks caused Chevron to stop the production of 20,000 barrels of crude oil in the area.  Other attacks in the region have caused oil producers to pump little over two thirds of the total three million barrels-per-day capacity."We are still trying to unravel why it happened and who was behind [it]," said an unnamed government official, as quoted by the Agence France-Presse news agency.Authorities say it was not immediately known who was responsible for the attack. A group called the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) released a statement saying "This attack was sanctioned by MEND, but did not involve our fighters."Chevron Corporation, the US oil producer, has announced that it would be cutting some of its oil production in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria after security officials said one of their pipelines was attacked by rebels."Chevron Nigeria Limited [...] confirms that there was a breach on its Makaraba-Utonana pipeline in Delta State, Nigeria on Friday," Chevron commented.In total, Chevron is to cut 20,000 barrels per day (bpd) from platforms supplying the pipeline with oil.On Friday, reports said that gunmen in the Niger Delta, an oil-rich area, attacked the pipeline, which had been sabotaged in the past. No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack. Previous violence by rebels has stopped Nigeria from using more than about two-thirds of its maximum pumping capacity of three million bpd, costing it about US$1 billion per month.File:NRA Logo -3.jpgIn response to the United States Supreme Court overturning Chicago's total ban on handguns, Chicago's city council approved on Friday what officials say are the toughest handgun regulations in the country. City officials also publicly criticized the Supreme Court's decision, saying that the Court's ruling that Americans have the right to use guns without restriction for self-defense makes the city more dangerous because it allows more people to legally possess guns. The ruling would have made Chicago's previous ban on handguns unenforceable.The city council, which is normally considered leisurely in passing ordinances, voted 45–0 to approve the new regulations and was remarkably quick in passing the laws. The new restrictions ban gun shops in the city and prohibits people from leaving their residences while in possession of a handgun. It also requires that all but one firearm per house be inoperative, that owners register all guns, and that citizens buying guns receive training. After the ordinance was passed, many gun rights advocates cried foul, and many, including the National Rifle Association (NRA), said they would pursue lawsuits. "The city wants to put as many hurdles and as much red tape in the way of someone who just wants to exercise their constitutional right to have a gun," Todd Vandermyde, lobbyist for the NRA, said. However, many residents of the city approved of the new measures."There's just too much killing going on [and] we need protection," South Side retiree Mary Fitts said. "You can't even sit on your front porch."Tahawwur Hussain  Rana, a businessman from Chicago, Illinois, pleaded not guilty earlier today of helping to plot the deadly 2008 Mumbai attacks that killed 166 people with a friend from a Pakistani military school.Rana, aged 49, has been held in prison since being arrested last October. He was also charged with helping to plot an attack on a Danish newspaper that printed controversial cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed in 2005.Prosecutors allege that Rana is used his immigration service as a cover for his Pakistani-American friend, David Coleman Headley, to travel to India and Denmark for surveillance, taking pictures and videos of targets. Headley was arrested with Rana."We entered our plea of not guilty and we're looking forward to contesting those charges. I am optimistic that we can fight these charges and clear Mr Rana's name," said Rana's defence lawyer, Patrick Blegen. Rana pleaded not guilty to twelve charges pertaining to the attacks and terrorism.Pakistan's Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry was manhandled by capital police and the Federal Investigation Agency's personnel yesterday at his official residence in Islamabad, when he refused to ride in the police personnel vehicle and insisted on a civilian automobile.The acting Chief Justice of Pakistan in an early morning statement confirming the incident said, "Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry is our responsibility and the persons will be taken to task who have misbehaved with him."The Chief Justice of Pakistan was removed from his office last Friday in an extrajudicial move by Pakistan's President General Pervez Musharraf for charges of alleged misconduct and corruption which have yet to be disclosed to the public and to the defendant.The Chief Justice has taken a strict stand against the government's human rights abuses and abductions.The Supreme Court has issued a gag order and has asked all Pakistani electronic media to show restraint and caution in airing programs. The acting Chief Justice of Pakistan Javaid Iqbal said, "the advice of the Supreme Judicial Council will be strictly enforced from today and no government official or media will be allowed to comment on it [the case]."United States Chief Justice William Rehnquist has died of complications from thyroid cancer.  He was 80.  Rehnquist died surrounded by friends and family in his Arlington, Virginia home."President Bush and Mrs. Bush are deeply saddened by the news," said White House counselor Dan Bartlett. "It's a tremendous loss for our nation."Rehnquist's death creates a second opening in the United States Supreme Court.  The first vacancy occurred when Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor announced her retirement on July 1, 2005, though O'Connor will remain in office until her successor has been appointed.  Hearings for nominee John G. Roberts, Jr. are set to begin on Tuesday, September 6, 2005.Rehnquist first joined the Supreme Court, the highest court in the U.S., as an Associate Justice in 1972.  He was elevated to the leading position of Chief Justice in 1986 and presided over the court for the next 19 years.The chief of the Fijian military, Commodore Frank Bainimarama, has claimed that he is now in control of Fiji without having to stage a military coup. Commodore Bainimarama said: "Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase was no longer in control of the Government and unless he gives in to my demands he will have nowhere to live in Fiji."There are predictions that the military will send out armed troops into the streets of Fiji's capital, Suva in the afternoon (0300 GMT). Commodore Bainimarama said: "I assure him [Mr Qarase] that he will not be kidnapped or put under any form of house arrest. It will be a peaceful transition." According to the Fijian newspaper Sunday Post, sources inside the government and the military have confirmed that there will be a government takeover tomorrow. Commodore Bainimarama will set up a interim administration.Prime Minister Qarase, said that Commodore Bainimarama is "deranged and unstable." However Commodore Bainimarama responded to this, he said that they were "the action and words of a cornered rat."The government and his cabinet are in hiding outside of Suva, Fiji, but the Prime Minister assures everyone that he is still in control of the government. Referring to the hiding, Commodore Bainimarama said: "Qarase had better come out of hiding because right now I'm in control of him.""We want freedom to live within a democratically civil government, where the government is elected by the people. We do not want a dictator," Mr Qarase said in a nationally broadcast interview.Mr Qarase said the he expects that he will be the Prime Minister for another four and a half years as he believes that the Fijian people do have confidence in him.A 35-year old woman, Venus Critchfield of Philipippi, West Virginia, United States was convicted of child abuse and sentenced to two to six years in prison.Critchfield was accused of beating her stepchildren with boards, and using hooks and ropes to secure them and force them to stand for long periods of time. Critchfield also forced the children to continuously eat food and drink, and then eat their own vomit. Her stepson, now aged 17, described the abuse in court. Circuit Judge Alan D. Moats called this the worst case he has seen in 30 years. "You have never been a mother. You are the antithesis of everything that is a mother." Moats said in court.The abuse involved all six of Critchfield's children, however only some were willing to testify against her. Critchfield pleaded guilty and was convicted of two counts of child abuse, with injury. The charges pertained to abuse committed from January 2001 until January 2002. She was sentenced to the maximum possible term.State welfare services had removed the children, now 11-16 years old, from the Critchfields' care in previous cases. Jenning Brian Critchfield, the father, is currently serving a 3-15 year sentence for abuse.Sources have claimed that Ian Huntley, currently serving a minimum sentence of 40 years for the murders of two schoolgirls, Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, has made a videotape confessing his crimes. It is believed that the video was made before a failed suicide attempt in his cell at Wakefield high security prison in West Yorkshire.Huntley was found unconscious in his cell on Tuesday following a suspected overdose of anti-depressant drugs. It is believed he obtained the drugs from a fellow prisoner in exchange for the videotape. The actions of an alert guard at the prison saved Mr Huntley's life -- he could have been dead before the existence of the tape came to light.It is understood that managers at the Wakefield prison are transcribing the tape before sending transcripts to Cambridgeshire Police, who led the original investigation into the Soham murders.Prosecutors in the child pornography case against John Mark Karr in California, who had confessed to the murder of JonBenet Ramsey in 1996, have dropped all charges against Karr due to the lack of evidence."The impression that we've had all along is that the prosecution had every intention of getting this case to trial, regardless of the evidence. I am pleasantly surprised by them having done the right thing," said the lawyer who represents Karr, Robert Amparan.Judge Rene Chouteau, the judge presiding on the case against Karr in Sonoma County has ordered the "immediate release" of Karr.Karr was extradited from Thailand after he had confessed to the murder of Ramsey and was taken to California in September to face charges of possessing child pornography, but the computer that contained the evidence was lost. Charges against Karr, for the murder of Ramsey were dropped when DNA taken from Karr did not match DNA taken from the crime scene.The computer was taken from Karr in 2001.A Malaysian woman and her three year old daughter were released from Villawood Detention Centre on bridging visas yesterday after media coverage in Australia and Malaysia. Naomi Long, who recently turned three, was born in the Centre. Her mother, Virginia Long, was detained after trying to leave Australia on a false passport four years ago.The plight of the young girl was revealed on ABC Radio's PM program on March 5. Michael Dudley, a child and adolescent psychiatrist at Sydney Children's Hospital who has visited the mother and daughter, spoke on the program of the importance of children mixing with others their own age, and the harm that prolonged detention was doing to Naomi."I mean that's crucial to social development and emotional development in children and also, a sense of identity development and so on. She doesn't have that opportunity and she's also basically been brought up in prison, but in a highly abnormal environment with highly distressed people. It's not an environment conducive to child development," he said.According to refugee advocate group ChilOut there are currently 28 children detained at Villawood, and 68 across all immigration detention facilities. The Federal Opposition Leader Kim Beasley has called for all children to be released."Kids don't belong in detention, full stop," he said.According to ABC Online, Federal Liberal backbencher Petro Georgiou intends to introduce a private members bill against long-term mandatory detention, and detention of women and children. Prime Minister John Howard has indicated that he is mindful of the need for compassion, but he does not support a conscience vote."Mandatory detention is not a matter of conscience. It is a Government policy," Mr Howard was quoted as saying. Howard has been a staunch supporter of hardline immigration and asylum policies since the mid 80's.Late on Thursday, at approximately 21:20 local time, the home of Cristián Larroulet, the nominated Ministry General Secretariat of the Presidency under President-elect Sebastián Piñera of Chile, was burglarized while his wife and son were home alone. Two suspects physically assaulted them, before making off with valuables.Future Ministry Larroulet lives in the Santiago commune of Las Condes. Two subjects, presumed to be teenage delinquents, were surprised to find Larroulet's wife, María Isabel Philippi, and son, Matías (aged twenty), on the premises.  The two suspects, who used metal beams as weapons, proceeded to tie up their two victims with shoe laces, and assault them. Within ten minutes the suspects, whom the Chilean media describes as "anti-socials", rampaged the home, leaving with jewelry, electronics including a laptop and an iPod, and other items.Piñera arrived at the home at 00:10 hours on Friday in solidarity and support of Larroulet and his family.  Both the identity and whereabouts of the two suspects is unknown at this time. The Chilean Carabineros (the uniformed national police) of the OS-9 force will continue with a full investigation. Larroulet stated on Friday morning that both his wife and son are in good condition following what he described as a "very raw experience."In the 1990's, Chile's crime rate was below that of the United States. In the past decade, however, Chileans have experienced an increase in violent burglary crimes, which are currently rated as moderate to high. One of Piñera's main campaign promises was to combat crime in Chile, having posted billboards throughout the country reading, "Delinquents, your party is over." Larroulet has criticized the politics directing citizen security under the current government party, the Concertación, stating, "I have no doubt that those governing the Concertación are missing a clearer political determination for combating delinquency," adding "the importance is in condemning these acts and voice that combating delinquency is a priority for all Chileans."On Thursday, Roman Catholic Pope Francis, on a tour of South America, spoke to the press in Chile on his last day in the country. When asked by a local journalist about Bishop Juan Barros, who has been accused of covering up sexual abuse by another priest, the Pope responded: "The day they bring me proof against Bishop Barros, I'll speak. [...] There is not one shred of proof against him. It's all calumny [slander]. Is that clear?" According to multiple news outlets, this did not sit well with many Chileans. The aforementioned Bishop Juan Barros was the protégé of priest Fernando Karadima who was found guilty in 2011 by the Vatican of dozens of abuses against minors since the 1980s. Barros, who rose above his mentor, is alleged to have protected Karadima for years.Victims of Karadima decried the Pope's remark. "We feel absolutely betrayed by what Pope Francis said, and about his incoherence, because he asks for forgiveness on one side and then says victims are lying," said Juan Carlos Cruz in an interview on Friday. "We will not be bullied by anybody no matter how powerful they are." Cruz has alleged that Barros was present when Karadima groped and kissed him.James Hamilton, who also says he was a victim, told a press conference: "What the Pope has done today is offensive and painful, and not only against us, but against everyone seeking to end the abuses".Bishop Alejandro Goic spoke of Barros in a radio interview: "It left me with a bitter taste that a brother of mine occupied a leading role [in the abuse scandal] that was not good." Not all were against the Pope. Bishop Santiago Silva stated, "Without reserve, we support what Pope Francis said".Earlier in Pope Francis's visit to Chile he met with victims of abuse by clergy. Francis also said: "I cannot help but express the pain and shame, shame that I feel over the irreparable harm caused to children by church ministers," while speaking in Stantiago, the capital city of Chile. "Is it fair to ask for forgiveness?"Chilean actor Oscar Garcés was arrested last Saturday morning by Carabineros in Calama after a 25-year-old woman accused him of sexual abuse.Garcés, who was the boyfriend of Francini Amaral, was traveling with Cristián Vidal and Francisco Schilling to Calama. A few hours before the incident, he had attended an event in the "Sala Murano" disco.Prosecutor Pablo Medina reports that Garcés went at 5:00 AM to the Sonesta Hotel, and called the reception desk to request room service. Soon after, he was involved in a fight with a female hotel worker. The victim accused Garcés of forcibly attempting to kiss her and trying to molest her. Medina later said: "The detained was accused of sexual abuse against a woman."After the incident, the woman called Carabineros and later verified her lesions at the Carlos Cisternas Hospital. Police subsequently informed Medina, who ordered that Garcés be arrested. Medina reported the investigation will take about 80 days. Garcés is currently free with some restrictions."The accused cannot come within a 200-meter radius from the victim", Medina said. He also explained that Garcés could be imprisoned from three to seven years. After being set free, Garcés came back to Santiago, saying: "I'm very sad. I don't want to say anything until I can talk with my lawyer," La Cuarta reported.A court in Chile has sentenced four former army officers to jail terms for their parts in the murder of a key witness in an investigation into illegal arms shipments to Croatia. Colonel Gerardo Huber, who was then in charge of buying military weapons, testified in 1991, and was killed the following year.At the time, Huber's death was ruled a suicide despite his recent testimony at a military investigation after police in Hungary uncovered a shipment of arms to Croatia marked as aid in late 1991. The shipment was alleged to have been approved by Chilean army head Augusto Pinochet. At the time, it was illegal to supply arms to Croatia following the breakup of Yugoslavia. There were eleven tons of arms in the shipment.The verdict into Huber's death was reopened by a civilian court after thirteen years, resulting in a trial. He had been shot by a machine gun, with the impact destroying his head. Following their convictions, the court yesterday jailed Gen. Victor Lizarraga for ten years and Col. Manuel Provis for eight years after both were found guilty of conspiracy and homicide. Both were intelligence officials.The court also jailed General Carlos Krum and Colonel Julio Munoz for just under two years on convictions of conspiracy and murder. All four are now retired. The person who pulled the trigger on the gun that killed Huber has never been identified.A Chilean policeman, Germán Hugo Ulloa Valdivia, died after falling from a seven meter high roof, during a foot pursuit in Santiago on Tuesday. Ulloa was pursuing some criminals who tried to rob a computer store.The policeman was taken to the Hospital de Carabineros (Carabiniers Hospital) where, despite medical efforts, he died on Thursday after the serious injuries caused by the fall.Carabineros de Chile said in a statement that they were saddened by the "sudden death of one of our functionaries, afforded by the unconditional support of his wife and his three children, [we] distinguish his bravery and commitment to service of [the person] who gave his life for the well-being of the community." Ulloa worked twenty years in Carabineros de Chile.On Thursday the 22nd of March, 2005, Anna Ayala, a woman from Las Vegas, claimed to have found a human finger in her bowl of chili at a Wendy's restaurant located at 1405 Monterey Highway, just south of downtown San Jose, California, owned by Fresno-based Jern Management.. The finger, which probably belonged to a woman as it had a long and manicured fingernail, did not belong to any of the restaurant employees. The food supplies were seized by officials to be traced back to its manufacturers, while the restaurant was permitted to open again later with chili prepared from fresh ingredients.The family of a Chinese-Canadian imprisoned in China on terror-related charges say that the prisoner, Huseyin Celil is being tortured by Chinese police in order to make him sign a confession.Celil has Canadian citizenship, which China has refused to recognize. Consular officials and his Canadian lawyer have not been permitted to meet him and his wife Kamila Telendibaeva hasn't seen him in almost a year. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu said that Celil is being tried in accoordance with Chinese laws and that consular access does not apply since Celil is a Chinese citizen.Huseyin Celil's sister, mother and older brother say that they are speaking out despite fears that the police would arrest them.The family says that if Celil, who fled China in the 1990s and sought refuge in Canada, living in Hamilton, does not sign the confession, he would be "put in a hole and buried alive." Celil was arrested in Uzbekistan in 2005 and extradicted to China. Chinese authorities say he is a member of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, which China and the United States consider to be a terrorist organisation.Celil alleged that he has been tortured during a court appearance during which his sister and son were present. Canadian officials were not permitted to be present at the trial. This issue has caused friction between Canada and China, with Prime Minister Stephen Harper questioning China's human rights record. The issue was also brought up when Harper spoke with Chinese President Hu Jintao at the Asia-Pacific Economic Co-operation summit in Vietnam last November. Canadian media report that Canadian federal officials have been dispatched to China and will stay in the country. China's assistant foreign affairs minister He Yafei said Celil is suspected of involvement in terrorist activities.The People's Republic of China has banned free plastic shopping bags in a move to take effect from June 1, 2008. The decision made by the Chinese Cabinet, the State Council, is intended to reduce the amount of plastic bags used in China, currently being estimated at three billion per day. The State Council also announced that at the same time as the ban, the manufacturing, sale and even use of very thin plastic bags, which are defined as being under 0.025mm thick, will be banned. Any company that does not follow this ban can be fined. The ban of free plastic bags and complete ban on very thin bags will, the government hopes, help reduce the amount of crude oil used for plastic packaging, which is currently at five million tonnes per year according to Times Online. The notice issued by the Chinese government said: “We should encourage people to return to carrying cloth bags, using baskets for their vegetables.”The People's Republic of China is not the first country to ban or restrict plastic shopping bags and the notice names Uganda and South Africa according to CNN. Many supermarkets in the European Union have voluntarily adopted methods to reduce usage of plastic bags, which often also consist of charging for bags (e.g. Germany) or rewarding customer loyalty points for returning used carrier bags. Still, many of the world's leading polluting countries, including the United States of America, have not yet introduced any legislation intended to reduce the usage of plastic bags. The United States Environmental Protection Agency claimed that in 2000 only 1% of plastic bags in the United States were recycled. The People's Republic of China has attracted a lot of attention in the past for having possibly the highest greenhouse emissions in the world, disproportionate to the size of its economy, according to The Telegraph. Times Online quoted a Chinese activist as saying that plastic bags are not the main problem and the government needed to make people care more about the environment.A court in Xinyu, China, has sentenced three anti-corruption activists to prison for causing public disturbance. Wei Zhongping and Liu Ping received a prison sentence of six-and-a-half years under charges of "using evil religion to sabotage law enforcement" and "picking fights and provoking trouble". A third activist Li Sihua was also convicted for the last charge. The three activists, who were associated members of the New Citizen’s Movement, were arrested last year during an anti-corruption protest that urged government officials to reveal their earnings. Zhou Ze, Li’s Lawyer, told the AFP that an opportunity to appeal the charges had been discarded as pointless as “The ruling in an appeal is already decided.” "The charges against these activists were preposterous from the very beginning," said William Nee, researcher for Amnesty International. The accused stood trial at a high security court late last year where, according to the BBC, their lawyers were concerned about serious procedural problems. "The harsh sentences are just the latest moves in the politically motivated crackdown on the New Citizens Movement," Nee said later in an emailed statement.Chinese Prime Minster Xi Jinping launched an initiative to crackdown on corruption after his appointment in 2012, however grassroots campaigns and activists have also been targeted with this drive. Several activists and rights lawyers have been detained for “disturbing the public order”. Party leaders have sought to rid the government of corruption facing concerns that the widespread organisation of protests may lead to a looser grip on political control. Xu Zhiyong, a founder of the New Citizens Movement, was sentenced to a four-year jail sentence in April. Several other Beijing-based participants will also serve jail terms for disrupting the public order.On Sunday, China's National People's Congress (NPC) voted to amend the Constitution of the People's Republic of China in several ways, including eliminating term limits for the offices of President and Vice President. The changes mean Xi Jinping may be President for life if he so chooses.The vote in the legislature was nearly unanimous. 2958 votes were cast in favor, two opposed, three abstained. Without this change, Xi would be required to leave office in 2023. In another change, Xi's own political theory was written into the constitution. "Xi Jinping thought", as the theory is also known, was approved by the Communist Party of China in the autumn of 2017.Shen Chunyao, the chairperson for the Commission for Legislative Affairs of the NPC, told Xinhua News Agency, "As an important content of the amendment, the inclusion of Xi's thought into the country's fundamental law reflects the common aspiration of the entire Communist Party of China and all Chinese people of various ethnic groups".News media reported a backlash to the news on the Internet. In response, state censors were blocking images of Winnie the Pooh and words like "I disagree" and "Emperor".  Reuters reported difficulties in getting reactions to the lifting of term limits from members of the congress, one woman choosing to remain anonymous and remarking, "You can't ask me that".Under China's constitution, the presidency is a largely ceremonial office with limited powers. However, since 1993, as a matter of convention, the presidency has been held simultaneously by the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, the top leader in the one-party communist state. Xi Jinping's powerful positions as General Secretary and Chairman of the Central Military Commission do not have any term limit.China lifted its three-day block on 16 of the country's Twitter-like services, including the two largest, which are Sina's and Tencent's microblogging sites.China said it carried out the ban on the sites' commenting function because microbloggers were using the sites to spread conspiracy theories and rumors about the disappearance of politican Bo Xilai on March 15. Bo was once mayor of Dalia, the party chief of Chongqing, and thought to be a likely candidate for the China's elite Politburo Standing Committee. Bo vanished a short time after his former chief of police, Wang Lijun, had also been reported missing after he attempted to seek asylum in the United States through a consulate. The government said Wang had left due to stress. Bo's disappearance came to light when the microbloggers posted the news. China retaliated for what it called illegal chatter about Bo's disappearances and claims of military operations, weapons fire, and even a purported coup.Sina and Tencent both referred to the government's action in statements as a "cleaning up" period. As many as 700 million subscribers were unable to comment on posts during the period of the block, although they were still able to write new messages and forward messages to others. The talk persisted through those two functions, especially the forwarding of messages. The block was not the only fallout from the incident as six people were taken into custody for fabrication and others were brought in for questioning.According to Amnesty International, China executed "thousands" of people in 2009, but the exact total is a state secret.  Executions in the rest of the world totaled 714, of which 388 were in Iran.  Death sentences totaled at least 2,001 in 2009.  According to the group's 2008 report, China executed at least 1,718 people, more than three-quarters of the world total that year.  While Chinese authorities claim the number of executions is decreasing, Amnesty challenged that claim, saying that "If this is true, why won't they tell the world how many people the state put to death?"In a statement, the organization said that "The time is long overdue for China to fall into line with international law and standards on the death penalty and be open and transparent regarding its use of capital punishment."  The organization said it was especially concerned about the executions of those in Tibet and Xinjiang after political violence, as well as people convicted of financial fraud, and a British man who was executed despite claims of mental illness.Amnesty also criticized the legal system in China, which allows the death penalty to be used for nearly 70 offences, including non-violent ones.  According to the report, many of the executions were based on evidence given during torture, and many defendants were given insufficient access to legal counsel.The organization has long criticized the death penalty, saying that it is "cruel and degrading, and an affront to human dignity."  Amnesty also claims that executions are frequently used for exclusively political purposes, and are used "disproportionately against the poor, minorities and members of racial, ethnic and religious communities."China has executed nine people for taking part in July's ethnic unrest in the western city of Ürümqi, according to a local state news agency.The official Xinhau news agency reported that the nine were the first of those convicted in the riots to be executed. It said the sentences were carried out with the approval of the country's supreme court; however, it was not immediately clear where the executions were carried out.Violence erupted in the Xinjiang regional capital of Ürümqi on July 5, after Uighurs protested the deaths of two Uighur factory workers in a brawl with Han Chinese in southern China's Guangdong province.  Uighurs said the protests turned violent when police cracked down on the rally. Protesters then attacked ethnic Han people in the regional capital. Two days later, Han Chinese staged revenge attacks. Nearly 200 people are believed to have been killed, but the official toll is much lower.At least 21 people have been sentenced in connection with the Ürümqi riots, in crimes ranging from murder to arson, robbery, and destruction of property. Twelve people have been sentenced to death.Early last night, massive attacks targeted China's Internet, slowing access to a crawl. The Chinese .cn domain was targeted in the latest of many denial of service attacks against China. According to the China Internet Network Information Center, which manages the .cn domain, this attack was the largest of its kind. The domain was attacked twice, once at 2am local time, and again at 4am. The second was larger, and Chinese officials said work to restore service was progressing slowly. State-run newsmedia said numerous .cn websites and microblogging website Sina Weibo were targeted. This outage comes at a sensitive time for China, with the trial of Bo Xilai, a former government official, having just ended. The attack also comes amidst rumors that the Chinese government will be cracking down on social media commentators, according the The Wall Street Journal.According to a Wall Street Journal interview with Matthew Prince, CEO of CloudFlare, a company that tracks web traffic and metrics, during the attack Chinese Internet traffic dropped by 32%. He also claimed this attack is an indicator of the susceptibility of Chinese Internet infrastructure to these attacks.Sina Weibo access is presently working as normal.The People's Republic of China (PRC) in recent years has begun an effort to reform its judicial system and make trials more fair and accountable, according to its state-run People's Daily.  Those efforts came to a head today with the official May 1 start of jury duty by more than 27,000 newly qualified jurors.  According to People's Daily, "It is the first time in Chinese history that the people's juries are appointed in a uniformed way by the people's congresses at all levels."Two jurors and a judge will be sitting on each three-person panel, and decide both criminal and civil cases.  The juries will be available when requested by litigants and also in cases "with considerable social repercussions", which appears to mean major cases.  Appeals cases will be heard only by judges.The jurors are not chosen for each trial but will serve a five-year term in the jury pool working on different cases from time to time.Jurors have been provided for in the Chinese Constitution since 1954, but their role in the system was not well-defined by law until now.The changes to the jury system are part of a long-term planned reform of China's judicial system that was announced in 1999 by China's top judge, Xiao Yang.  In addition to jury reforms, the plan addressed trial procedures and court structure and supervision.  The goal was to "perfect the socialist judicial system with Chinese characteristics...in accordance with the Constitution and laws, and [without] judicial independence and supremacy, which exist in many Western countries," according to Xiao Yang as reported by the People's Daily in 1999."Court reform represents a major part of China's reform of the judicial system and political restructuring. The essence of judicial reform is judicial fairness, which is crucial to the country's rule of law," Xiao Yang said back then.In August 2004, the 10th National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee approved a "resolution on improving the people's jury system", which took effect today.  The system specifies that either by recommendation of local work units or by self-application, potential jurors can take qualifying examinations and be presented to standing committees of the NPC for appointment as jurors.  The first batch of 1,342 jurors were tested in Beijing under the new law on April 23, 2005.  Those who were certified to begin service on May 1 are said to "participate in all hearing activities of people's courts according to the law, enjoying the same rights as do the judges except that for a presiding judge after their assumption of the post," according to the People's Daily."This is an important move to upgrade and strengthen the system of people's jurors," Xiao Long of Beijing People's Court said to China Daily on April 24.  "The implementation of the NPC's decision will add more transparency and justness to the country's judicial system," he added.China has one of the world's largest prison systems with over 1 million prisoners, similar to Russia.  It has received criticism over the years from the U.S. State Department and others for its arbitrariness and its treatment of political prisoners.  The United States, however, is the world's largest jailer, with a staggering 2 million prison inmates, out of 9 million total around the entire globe.  A full 70% of U.S. prison terms are drug-related.In two separate cases, Chinese police have captured and killed suspected terrorists apparently targeting the 2008 Summer Olympics, and an airplane crew thwarted what appeared to be a planned hijacking, top officials said at a parliament session Sunday. The suspect terrorist gang was found on January 27 in Urumqi, capital of the Xinjiang region in northwest China. Two were killed and fifteen others were arrested. Police seized axes, knives, grenades, and "books about terrorism". "Obviously, the gang had planned an attack targeting the Olympics," said Wang Lequan, Xinjiang's Communist Party chief. "The Olympic Games slated for this August is a big event, but there are always a few people who conspire to commit sabotage. It is no longer a secret now."The gang was said to have collaborated with the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, a separatist movement labeled a terrorist organization by the United Nations. "Those terrorists, saboteurs and secessionists are to be battered resolutely, no matter what ethnic group they are from," said Wang. Xinjiang is home to a many ethnic Turkic groups, the largest of which are the Uyghur.Nur Bekri, chairman of the Xinjiang government and himself an Uyghur, says only a very small minority support the views of the East Turkestan Islamic Movement. "They don't represent the Uighur people," he said.In another incident, an airplane destined for Beijing was forced to land early after "some people were attempting to create an air disaster," said Nur Bekri, chairman of the Xinjiang government.The plane took off from Urumqi on Friday and landed in Lanzhou, capital of the neighboring Gansu province. The flight crew stopped the alleged attackers, and all passengers and crew are reported to be safe. The plane finally arrived in Beijing Saturday morning."Fortunately our air crew took resolute measures, discovered and put a stop to this action promptly. All the passengers, crew and the aircraft are safe," Bekri said.No further details were made available. The suspects are in custody, as police try to find out "who the people involved in the incident were, where they were from, what their aim was and what their background was", Bekri said. An airline official did not confirm whether the incident was a terrorist attack, saying "it's up to the police department to verify." However, Bekri believes "we can be sure that this was a case intending to create an air crash."An anonymous source told Reuters that flammable material was found in the plane's toilet, and that at least 2 passengers on the flight have been taken into custody for questioning.China has offered Africa concessional loans worth US$10 (€6.5) billion as part of a host of new measures aimed at improving the economy of African nations. The announcement was made at the opening of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt. Leaders of nearly 50 African countries are attending the two-day conference. China had already stated today at the 3rd Conference of Chinese and African Entrepreneurs, held immediately before the FOCAC, that Chinese firms would be encouraged to invest in Africa, while both sides would work together to improve the tourism, telecommunications and finance industries. China also said that governments should work with businesses to ensure co-operation between China and Africa.As well as the loans, made over three years, China will write off the debt of Africa's poorest countries, build 100 African green energy facilities and systematically lower import duties on 95% of all African products exported to China. Another promise is a loan of one billion dollars aimed at small and medium sized businesses in Africa. There will also be efforts to promote each other's culture and increased medical assistance to Africa. Medical assistance comes in the form of 500 million yuan (US$73.2 million) of goods for the 60 hospitals and malaria centers China has already built, as well as 3,000 doctors and nurses. Roads will also be improved.China also plans to assist with satellite weather monitoring, to help combat desertification and work within the urban environment, all aimed at reducing global warming. The new energy facilities will focus on solar, biogas and small-scale hydroelectrical installations. Another new measure is a promise to aid African farmers to ensure the continent is fed, increasing the number of demonstrations of agricultural technology in Africa to 20 and sending 50 teams of agricultural technology experts to the continent. Training in agricultural technology will be provided to 2,000 people. "The Chinese people cherish sincere friendship toward the African people, and China's support to Africa's development is concrete and real," said co-chair Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao as the FOCAC opened up, adding "Whatever change that may take place in the world, our friendship with African people will not change." He described this friendship as 'unbreakable'. Two years ago China pledged US$5 (€3.37) billion at the last FOCAC in Beijing and now, according to Jiabao, "China is ready to deepen practical cooperation in Africa."China has fulfilled its 2006 pledge, investing a total of US$7.8 (€5.26) billion in Africa last year alone. 49 African countries are represented at the FOCAC, which was created in 2000, although Jiabao noted that relations between China and Africa go back fifty years. China had already forgiven or reduced the debt for thirty nations at that FOCAC summit.According to Chinese state-owned paper China Daily, trade between China and Africa increased by 45% last year, to give a total value of US$107 (€72.1) billion, a tenfold increase since 2001 and up from US$491 (€331) million in 2003. The Chinese have a 9.8% market share, the largest of any nation, according to the U.S. Commerce Department. China has paid for schools, hospitals, malaria clinics and Chinese scholarships for African students. 50 more schools are to be built and 1,500 people trained to staff them.Since 2006 Chinese energy firms have committed to spend at least US$16 (€10.8) billion securing African oil and gas. China's Sinopec Group, an oil giant, bought up Addax Petroleum Corporation from its Swiss owners that year, gaining control of oilfields in Nigeria, Cameroon and Gabon. China promised earlier this year to spend US$9 (€6) billion on infrastructure in the Congo in exchange for mineral deposits for mining operations.Jean Ping, leader of the African Union, said the told those at the conference that the money is coming at an opportune time, because African growth was "totally compromised" by the global financial crisis. Ping said one of the lessons learned is that the world is paying for "the irresponsible and lax behavior" of large financial companies whose philosophy was to make short-term profits.Not all Africans are happy with China's increasing involvement in their continent. Trade practices are a concern for some, with a view that China exploits Africa for raw materials before selling back finished goods. Among these are Egyptian Trade and Industry Minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid. Egypt is the richest nation in the Middle East and is discussing this perceived issue with China. Rachid told Bloomberg "What is a worry for me is if competition is unfair. That is where we are unhappy." Jiabao described the trade as being based on "win-win programmes... and transparency."Others in Africa are delighted with the situation. "We want more investment from China," Tanzanian President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete told the forum. Egypt's own President Hosni Mubarak talked of "peace, security and growth," and of "boosting cooperation between China and Africa."Jiabao also used his speech to respond to criticisms that China worked with nations regardless of their human rights record, such as Sudan, whose President Omar al-Beahir is wanted on a warrant issued by the International Criminal Court for war crimes. "Africa is fully capable of solving its own problems, in an African way," he said, adding that "China has never attached any political strings […] to assistance to Africa."Beshir thanked China in a speech for diplomatic work in Sudan, including working to defuse the Darfur conflict, which the United Nations says has left 300,000 dead. "We express our deep appreciation for China's efforts in backing the comprehensive peace agreement in Sudan and its peace efforts in Darfur," he said, referring to a peace deal between the northern and southern parts of his country. "We thank China particularly for backing efforts by our countries to achieve peace and stability in Africa's zones of conflict." Jiabao said China was willing to work towards "the settlement of issues of peace and security," in Africa.A further criticism has been that China has brought in Chinese workers and used their own knowledge, instead of training locals. Jiabao's speech indicated an intention to co-operate better in the fields of science and technology, as well as improve training for African students on technical courses."Why do some only criticise China?" asked Jiabao. "Is this a view representing African countries, or rather the view of Western countries?"The government of China has made a rare public protest over allegations that the North Korean border patrol shot three Chinese nationals dead and injured a fourth near the Chinese town of Dandong last week. Qin Gang, a spokesman for the Chinese foreign ministry reported that the government of China has formally complained to North Korea, despite the two countries' normally amicable relationship.Qin says that the men were shot "on suspicion of crossing the border for trade activities", and that "China attaches great importance to that and has immediately raised a solemn representation with the DPRK [Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the legal name of North Korea]". He reports that the incident is currently under investigation, but refuses to comment on the validity of the accusations. "In the aftermath of the incident, China has paid a lot of attention to this issue and has made a formal diplomatic protest to North Korea," said Qin.China is North Korea's primary source of international trade, and illegal traders crossing the border are perceived as a great threat. North Korea is also involved in a dispute with its neighbour, South Korea, regarding the sinking of a South Korean ship in March, killing 46 people; while an international committee found that North Korea was responsible, China refuses to place any blame on the nation, which it sees as an ally. Heung Gwang, a former North Korean college professor and head of Seoul-based North Korea Intellectuals Solidarity, said that because of this "it is rare for China to publicly complain. Usually there is a private apology or money paid."Dandong is the site of the Sino-Korea Friendship Bridge, a commemoration of China's aid of North Korea during the Korean War of the 1950s. The Chinese people were reported to be in a boat when they were shot, for allegedly carrying copper wire out of North Korea and into China.The North Korean border guards caused controversy last year, when they detained two United States journalists on the Chinese border on charges of illegally entering the country. They were sentenced to twelve years hard labour, but a campaign led by former US president Bill Clinton saw their release after only four months.A Chinese court sentenced prominent democracy activist Liu Xiaobo to 11 years in prison for inciting to subvert state power, prompting international calls for his release.A Beijing court issued the sentence Friday following a two-hour trial earlier in the week. A group of U.S. and European diplomats were among those who stood outside the court after they were barred from the courtroom.  Gregory May, first secretary with the United States Embassy in Beijing, told reporters the United States is "deeply concerned" by Liu's sentence."We continue to call on the government of China to release him immediately," May said, "and to respect the rights of all Chinese citizens to peacefully express their political views in favor of universally recognized fundamental freedoms, including the right to petition one's government." May says members of the U.S. embassy have repeatedly raised Liu's case at high levels in Washington, D.C. and Beijing.China has accused foreign diplomats of "meddling" in the trial. On Thursday, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Jiang Yu stressed that Liu is a Chinese citizen and, as a result, his case is an "internal" affair.Liu's charge of subversion is an ill-defined one, often brought against those who voice opposition to Communist Party rule. Liu has spent time in jail or under house arrest before, especially following his early activism over the 1989 student protests in Tiananmen Square. Along with his prison term, Liu will lose his political rights for another two years. Liu's lawyer, Shang Baojun, said of the verdict, “We are just extremely disappointed.” Baojun says Liu plans to appeal the verdict.Liu was detained more than a year ago after he co-authored the pro-democracy petition "Charter '08." Thousands of Chinese citizens signed the online document, including 38-year-old Yang Licai, one of a handful of Chinese supporters who came to the courthouse on Friday. Yang says he came to turn himself in.Yang also says he signed Charter '08, and since Liu Xiaobo was sentenced to 11 years for sponsoring the document, Yang felt he should receive the same treatment. After he finished speaking with reporters, police escorted Yang into a van that promptly drove away.Many international human rights organizations are denouncing the sentence and calling for Liu's release. International PEN, a non-profit organization devoted to freedom of expression, called Liu's sentence "a grievous betrayal of his inalienable rights as a Chinese citizen."   Liu is a former president of the independent China PEN Center. Larry Siems, the director of Freedom to Write and international programs at PEN American Center, says Liu exemplifies the traits that PEN values. "He's been in his work an example of a true intellectual, someone who is true to his ideas and principles," Siems noted,  "and also as a public intellectual, someone who lives by his actions, his words, someone who's willing to speak his mind and take the consequences."Siems says PEN will continue to advocate for Liu's release.Despite a personal plea from US president Barack Obama, a court in China sentenced American geologist Xue Feng to eight years in prison and a US$30,000 fine for trafficking state secrets and buying an advanced commercial database that, according to China, contains confidential information about the country's oil industry.The sentence was carried out even though both Xue, 45, and his employer, the engineering consultancy IHS, have stated that during the time of purchase, the database was in the public domain. Also, San Francisco-based non-profit Dui Hua Foundation has said that China declared the database a state secret only after Xue had purchased it. Chinese state security agents arrested Xue, a naturalized US citizen, in November 2007 after he purchased the database. Diplomats have visited the geologist over thirty times since he was detained.Joshua Rosenzweig of Dui Hua has stated to the Agence France-Presse, a news agency, that he suspects that "some of Xue Feng's statements to the police might have been obtained under coercion including torture." Also, during meetings with consular officials, it appeared that Xue was not being treated well in prison, as Xue had scars on his arm that he said came from interrogators' cigarette stubs. However, while pronouncing Xue's sentence, Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People's Court declared that the geologist's actions "endangered our country's national security."After the sentence was pronounced, Xue's wife, Nan Kang, tearfully said via telephone to the Associated Press that "I can't describe how I feel. It's definitely unacceptable." Xue's family lives in a suburb of Houston, Texas, where Xue and Nan have two children.China has sentenced six more people to death for murders committed during July riots in far northwestern Xinjiang region. This brings the number of people facing the death penalty for their involvement in the riots to nine.China saw its worst ethnic violence in decades, when riots erupted in Xinjiang's regional capital, Urumqi, in July. Muslim Uighurs attacked members of China's dominant Han ethnic group. The Han Chinese retaliated, two days later, by attacking Uighurs. Officials say nearly 200 people were killed in the riots.The Chinese media has said the Urumqi court gave three of the six condemned men two-year reprieves — a sentence that is often commuted to life in prison.Five of the death sentences went to Uighurs, who were convicted of beating people to death during the initial riots on July 5. The official Xinhua news agency says another man, who appears to be Han Chinese based on his name, was convicted of beating a Uighur man to death during vigilante attacks, two days later.An employee at the Xinjiang government's news center, who did not give her name, said that the sentencing was not over. She said the official reports Thursday only cover the verdict for cases that were decided that day. She added that  there will still be verdicts for other cases, but gave no details as to how many cases remain to be tried, how serious they are or when the verdicts would be reached.On Monday, six Uighur defendants were sentenced to death by the same court. Those sentences were the first to be handed down in the trials of scores of suspects arrested during and after the riots.Last week, a Chinese court in Guangdong province sentenced one man to death and another to life in prison for their part in a toy factory brawl in June. Two ethnic Uighurs were killed in that violence, which sparked the rioting in Xinjiang.The Turkic-speaking Uighurs have long complained of discrimination by the Han and say the government severely restricts their Muslim religious practices. The Chinese government says there is no discrimination and that Uighurs, like other ethnic minority groups, receive benefits the Han majority does not.Beijing (北京; pinyin: Běijīng) —Chinese President Hu Jintao is stepping up a government campaign to eradicate illegal gambling in China, detaining over 4,000 gamblers in an effort to clean up the public image of the Communist party.Cadres and officials within the party have been caught using illicit funds, sometimes embezzled from local, state-run organizations, to gamble at casinos set up in border-towns within North Korea, in Macau, and in other popular gambling resorts outside of the direct control of the mainland government.To assuage any fears that this latest campaign extends to ordinary working-class citizens, Deputy Public Security Minister Bu Jingfu has announced that ordinary citizens need not worry about being prosecuted for "friendly" games of mahjong. He did not specifically address whether mainland citizens should reconsider visiting the numerous mahjong gaming parlors which dot urban centers throughout the country."The whip that is used to beat wolves should not be used to beat sheep," stated Bu Jingfu.China allows a "social welfare" lottery, for which citizens can purchase tickets that help to fund social programs. However, this legal form of gambling is mostly favored by lower-income players who don't have the opportunity to travel to the lavish gaming casinos frequented by the wealthier class of businessmen and party officials who can travel across the border on easily obtained one or two-day visas.Despite relatively harsh penalties for those who are caught participating in illegal gambling operations, a number of provinces are well-known for hosting high-stakes gamblers in illegal, underground operations that are run on the mainland under the noses of local authorities. To combat these operations on a national level, the Public Security Ministry has sent 13 "inspection teams" to these provinces in an attempt to crack down on these operations.One historian believes that China's government, which in its various forms has tried to stop avid gamblers for thousands of years, will have no better luck with its current campaign, than it has in the past."It is really hard to get rid of gambling," said Guo Shuanglin, a professor of history at People's University in Beijing.Guo explained, "There were strict laws against gambling in almost every dynasty in China. Take the Song Dynasty, for example, when gamblers were sentenced to death. In the Ming Dynasty, gamblers' hands were chopped off. Even in the period of the Republic of China, they had a very strict anti-gambling law."As far away as Las Vegas, casino operators are seeing a shift in demographics for their most elite players, called "whales", who are known to bet upwards of US$50,000 a hand. Since the 1980s, Las Vegas has seen a shift from Japanese businessmen to Chinese players, who now make up over 50% of the high-end clientele at some Las Vegas casinos.Shen Mingming, a Beijing University expert on Chinese gambling, is skeptical that China's government can sustain a long-term campaign against gambling."It means long hours for the police, and it cannot be sustained," he said. "When the campaign is over, these organizations just quietly come back to life. Can you keep doing these campaigns every few months?"However, this time China's government has set up a special telephone number, to encourage citizens to turn in government officials who are embezzling government funds for illicit gambling runs.China has recently conducted a series of high-profile arrests of corrupt officials who are caught gambling with public funds, two of whom used tens of millions of dollars to fund their gambling lifestyle.The government has also made one special arrest to show that even high-level officials are not immune to prosecution due to their party position. Cai Haowen, who had been groomed by former Chinese President Jiang Zemin, was arrested this month on an overnight train in Jilin (吉林; pinyin: Jílín) province, while fleeing authorities for embezzling hundreds of thousands of dollars and losing it all while gambling.Finally, China is starting to crack down on the easy visa programs which have permitted so much traffic to gambling emporiums outside of mainland government control. The new visa program requires that records be kept of the identity of the visa holder. This new visa requirement has started to have a noticeable effect on some border-town casinos, leaving a number of properties with idle employees and few Chinese customers.A blacklist of 19 leading search engine portals and websites, including Google and Baidu, that "spread pornography or vulgar content, and threaten the morals of young people" has been published, the Chinese government said Monday.According to Xinhua News Agency, six central agencies, led by the Ministry of Public Security and Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, conducted an intensified month-long campaign to clean up the Internet of unhealthy, vulgar and porn materials."The government will continue to expose, punish or even shut down those infamous Web sites that refuse to correct their wrongdoing," Cai Mingzhao, deputy director of the State Council Information Office, said. "Immediate action is needed to purify the Internet environment."."Pornography is banned in China and websites that feature erotic content are morally offensive," Huang Chengqing, deputy secretary-general of the Internet Society of China, said.The China Internet Illegal Information Reporting Center demanded the web portals, a number of video sharing sites and bulletin boards, including Sina, Sohu and NetEase, Google in Chinese and other websites to remove sexually-explicit photos after due notice but they failed and continued providing links to obscene sites. Google China's spokeswoman Cui Jin, however, explained that "Google is neither the owner of those Web sites and porn nor does it spread (that) information intentionally. We have also adopted 'safe search' as the default setting, which automatically blocks sites with such content." Baidu, NetEase.com.Inc and SINA Corp., in web statements on Wednesday, admitted their guilt, and apologized for failing to curb "porn" content. Google's China, on the other hand vowed to cooperate with Internet users and society to help establish a healthy Internet culture. "After we received notice from relevant government departments ... (we) cleaned up links to vulgar content that could have adverse effects on Internet users," it added.Sohu, and Tencent, the most popular free instant messaging computer program in Mainland China, and the world’s third most popular IM service, as well as an internet portal, apologized separately late Tuesday. China's Criminal Law penalizes distribution of pornographic and obscene publications, videos, articles for nonprofit use with a maximum of two years imprisonment. However, the law is vague on the definition of "distributing vulgar materials." Beijing Internet management office, staff, Wang Qiang, on Wednesday said "they were working on punishment schemes for the more vague charge of spreading vulgar images." In June 2008, China had more than 253 million Internet users, according to Xinhua. The country has been severely criticized for web censorship. In a 2008 report, the U.S. State Department stated that "China had increased its efforts to control and censor the Internet, and the government had tightened restrictions on freedom of speech and the domestic press and bloggers." In 1996 Chinese Internet users were required to "sign a set of rules that makes it illegal for users to produce or receive pornography." In 2007 the public security ministry declared it would curb porn, online strip shows, including even erotic stories. Tianya Club, one of the most popular Chinese Internet forums, where members post government attacks, had also been publicly criticized.In December, a woman was arrested and jailed in Shanghai for uploading home-made videos, allegedly showing her performing sex acts. In 2008, Hong Kong actor Edison Chen's and his female partner's obscene pictures circulated in the Chinese internet. Nearly a dozen people were arrested and detained by the authorities for distributing the porn materials. On Monday, these and photos of actress Zhang Ziyi sunbathing topless on a beach still appeared online.In September 2008, Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao said, "to uphold state security, China, like many countries in the world, has also imposed some proper restrictions. That is for the safety, that is for the overall safety of the country and for the freedom of the majority of the people." To control public opinion, Chinese authorities had used a sophisticated spin machine dubbed as "50-cent party." Tens of thousands of "internet commentators" were hired and paid 50 Chinese cents ($0.07; £0.05) for each positive posting on websites and forums that upload bad news.Internet censorship in the People's Republic of China is conducted under a wide variety of laws and administrative regulations. In accordance with these laws, more than sixty Internet regulations have been made by the People's Republic of China (PRC) government, and censorship systems are vigorously implemented by provincial branches of state-owned ISPs, business companies, and organizations. The escalation of the government's effort to neutralize critical online opinion comes after a series of large anti-Japanese, anti-pollution and anti-corruption protests, many of which were organized or publicized using instant messaging services, chat rooms, and text messages. The size of the Internet police is estimated at more than 30,000.Internet Service Providers Association of Ireland (ISPAI), general manager Paul Durant, said that “each country decides how far it brings up the bar in terms of illegal content. If we are notified of material suspected of being illegal, we can trace it and establish whether it is or not, and then action can be taken if necessary. We are not a censor. If content is found to be illegal, we work with the relevant ISP and the law enforcement agencies throughout Europe to have it taken down. It can lead to huge collateral damage — you could block one site, for example, which is providing co-location hosting where people have lots of sites under one IP address. This means innocent sites risk being taken out.”The authorities centered on pornography but the major government agenda is to control freedom of expression and to remove destabilizing online portal contents, which attack the Communist Party, suggest democracy or advocate Taiwan independence. In December, over 300 lawyers, writers, scholars and artists jointly signed "Charter 08" online petition, which advocates human rights protection by formulation of a new constitution. Meanwhile, Center for Democracy and Technology's President and Chief Executive Officer, Leslie Harris, said: "Look at the words the Chinese government is using: 'low-class,' 'crude.' That could apply to anything. If the content is coming from China, I would be concerned their use of such broad terms is intended to reach political and religious content, general disagreement."Under criticism from its Western trading partners, China is working toward an effective resolution of issues regarding illegal downloading of movies and videos protected by  copyright law. Reports state that 205 websites were closed recently because of their illegal Internet activity.Chinese officials state that in the period between September and January they have investigated 436 cases of Internet piracy and ordered 361 Internet offenders to stop infringement of the copyright law.  Overseas organizations requested investigation of 130 cases. Yan Xiaohong, who is currently the deputy director of the National Copyright Association, mentioned at a news conference that Internet piracy in China caused serious damage to the interests of the copyright owners. This, he says, leads to a number of disputes, which, in their turn lead to disruption of the orderly functioning of the Internet.Most of the investigated cases involved sites that offered a free download of software, movies, music and textbooks. The main reasons why Chinese people actively download pirated works are the high prices on authorized copies and restrictions on cultural imports set by the Chinese government.According to the numbers provided by Chinese officials, China has around 843,000 websites and 140 million users, which means that China is the second largest Internet market in the world. Mr. Yan Xiaohong outlined the fact that due to the quick pace of China's development, it may take some time to effectively fight Internet piracy.Lai Changxing, dubbed the Bandit King, has been given a life sentence for years of smuggling and corruption that added up to billions of US dollars or Pounds sterling. The Chinese court described the values as "massive".Lai smuggled goods worth more than £2 billion into Xiamen, bypassing more than £1 billion in import duty. He paid 64 local officials a total of almost £4 million in bribes, giving him effective control of the city from 1995 to 1999. He fled China after becoming a wanted man in 1999 and went to Canada via Hong Kong; the following year, Premier Zhu Rongji said "If Lai was executed three times over, it would not be too much".As head of the Yuanhua Group, Lai smuggled in cars, chemicals, oil, cigarettes, and other goods. He distributed bundles of cash to the poor, owned and played for his local football team, built stadia, owned a bulletproof Mercedes that once belonged to President Jiang Zemin, and attempted to construct a tower that would have been the nation's tallest building. He attained local popularity for funding construction projects including schools, hundreds of tower blocks, and the local airport.As well as money, officials were offered alcohol and prostitutes. Many were offered time at Lai's seven-storey brothel, the Red Mansion, and feasted at a replica of the Forbidden City.State TV has broadcast footage depicting a banquet table with a tiger skin laid upon it, cars given to officials, a young woman alleged to have been donated as a lover, and a sackful of gold rings. The case's prominence was such that Liu Liying, boss of the national Central Discipline Inspection Committee, took charge of bringing Lai down.Subsequent investigations have examined more than 1,000 suspects with police at one stage turning over an entire hotel to the probe, filling rooms with suspects. National newspaper The People's Daily has suggested it is the most serious economic crime in modern Chinese history. He was the nation's top car importer and one of the main traders in oil and imported cigarettes.Hundreds of officials have been convicted and it is estimated hundreds more remain. Fellow life-sentence prisoners from the case include the city's deputy mayor and its head of customs. The nation's former vice-minister for security, Li Jizhou, has a suspended death sentence. Other suspects have killed themselves.Upon his escape from the nation Lai became China's most-wanted fugitive. Twelve years of negotiations ended with a Chinese promise Lai would be spared the death penalty, and Canada extradited him last year. Numerous lower-ranking members of Lai's empire have already been given life imprisonment or death sentences. With execution off the table, the court gave Lai the highest sentence possible: in addition to the life term, he received fifteen years for bribery and had all his possessions confiscated.The court justified the "double sentence" on the grounds "the sums involved are unusually large, and the details are extraordinarily serious". "The crimes involve massive sums and particularly serious circumstances," court officials told Xinhua. Lai had denied corruption at his trial, although he accepted exploiting loopholes to avoid import duty."I don't have a good family background," Lai said previously in a press interview. "I have to do things step by step by myself. That's how people came to respect me. I never fussed about big money." Lai was born as one of eight siblings in the midst of famine.Guardian journalist Benjamin Joffe-Walt has claimed to have witnessed democracy activist Lu Banglie beaten "lifeless" by a mob on Saturday night. Joffe-Walt and Lu were in a taxi attempting to enter the villiage of Taishi, which the journalist described as "the hotspot of the growing rural uprisings in China". According to Mr Joffe-Walt, their car was surrounded by a group of about 30 men. When the men recognised Mr Lu, "... they completely lost it. They pulled him out and bashed him to the ground, kicked him, pulverised him, stomped on his head over and over again. The beating was loud, like the crack of a wooden board, and he was unconscious within 30 seconds. They continued for 10 minutes. The body of this skinny little man turned to putty between the kicking legs of the rancorous men."Mr Lu was later found to have survived but suffered serious injuries. Mr Lu has told the Guardian that he was battered unconscious and later driven hundreds of miles to his home town where he is now recuperating. Civil rights lawyers said they were considering a legal case against his attackers, thought to be a group of thugs hired by the local authorities to put down an anti-corruption campaign against the chief of Taishi village.Wang Jue, a Chinese nurse appearing in a disturbing internet video stomping a cat with her high-heel shoes, gave herself up to authorities after bloggers and some print media started a campaign to trace back the recording. In the beginning, she was labeled as the kitten killer of Hangzhou, because it was believed she was from there; but some internauts recognized an island in northern Heilongjiang province.Wang posted an apology on the Luobei city government official website. She said she was recently divorced and didn't know what to do with her life. The cameraman, a provincial TV employee, and she lost their jobs when internauts discovered their identities.Nevertheless, since China lacks laws against cruelty to animals, Wang and the cameraman might be freed soon.The site (http://www.crushworld.net/) where the video was first posted is no longer active.A Chinese court has handed down death sentences to six men for their involvement in a riot in the far northwestern region of Xinjiang, in the first cases directly related to the deadly July riots in Xinjiang. Violence sparked by the rioting left nearly 200 people dead and more than 1,600 others injured. The six men had been charged for murder and other crimes. One other defendant was sentenced to life in prison.Xinjiang regional government spokesman Li Jie confirmed all seven men were ethnic Uighurs. He was asked if he thought the sentences would stir up more violence in Xinjiang.Li said that it is hard to say how ordinary people will react, but asserted the sentences are impartial. He says the courts later will hand down more sentences related to the riot. He added that everything will be handled according to the law.However, Dilxat Rixit of the World Uighur Congress said that the sentences were unfair and the defendants did not receive a proper defense. He said the defendants' court-appointed lawyers only acted in the Chinese government's interest."These verdicts were motivated by politics, not the desire to see justice served," Rixit said.Late last week, one man was sentenced to death and another to life in prison for their part in a toy factory brawl last June in China's southern Guangdong province. Two ethnic Uighurs were killed in the violence that sparked the rioting in Xinjiang.Official media gave no details, but the names of the two men suggest they are ethnic Han, China's majority ethnic group.The rioting in Xinjiang was some of China's worst ethnic violence in decades. Uighurs, angry over the deaths in Guangdong, led a protest march that police say ended in attacks on Han in Xinjiang's capital, Urumqi. Han Chinese retaliated two days later, and attacked Uighurs, before Chinese troops restored order.  The Turkic-speaking Uighurs have long complained of discrimination by the Han, and say the government severely restricts their Muslim religious practices. The Chinese government says there is no discrimination and Uighurs, like other ethnic minorities, receive benefits the Han majority does not.Officials say the death toll in the recent earthquake in China has reached almost 15,000. The news comes as 2,000 of the nation's troops were dispatched to the Zipingku Dam to repair "extremely dangerous" cracks in the structure, which is upriver from Dujiangyan City, already severely hit by the disaster.It is feared the toll will rise much further as 60,000 people are missing after the 7.9 magnitude quake in Sichuan left entire towns "razed to the ground" with no buildings standing, according to officials in the area. At one destroyed school 178 children were found dead after the building collapsed while they slept inside it. A second school at Wudu, twenty miles from the epicentre behind the White Cloud Mountain, has 130 dead children and 150 more still buried and feared dead.Zipingku Dam has had some water drained to ease the pressure on it. According to the Ministry of Water Resources' website "If Zipingpu develops a serious safety problem, it could bring disaster to Dujiangyan city downstream." Numerous other dams are also affected, including several others near Dujiangyan. In addition, experts from France's Institute for Radiological Protection and Nuclear Safety say it cannot yet be ruled out that a number of nuclear power facilities in the area have been affected.50,000 troops have been brought to the area to provide assistance. However, emergency response is being made difficult by continuing poor weather and landslides that have cut off Wenchuan county. In Mianyang alone, one of the worst-hit cities, some 19,000 people are thought to be buried under rubble and the first rescuers to reach the epicenter state tens of thousands may be dead there as well. The Wenchuan town of Yingxiu has only 2,300 confirmed survivors from a 12,000-strong population. Some aid in the form of food, water and medicine has arrived by helicopter, but rotorcraft operations are very dangerous due to ongoing poor weather. Trucks loaded with noodles and biscuits were raided by crowds before the aid could be properly handed out. The People's Liberation Army intends to send in paratroopers.“They had better set up a distribution system, or we will be stealing what we can,” one survivor promised.Meanwhile, accusations of blame over the scale of the effects have been leveled at construction companies and local authorities. The allegations say that the firms used substandard techniques and materials when building many projects, and corrupt local authorities deliberately ignored the problem. Some people have nicknamed the resulting structures "tofu buildings", an allusion to the fact that they are alleged to be 'as soft as tofu'. "It's nothing but corruption - they must have used sub-standard cement and steel," said rescuer Dr Tian, who withheld his second name from journalists. It is also alleged that both local residents and international scientific organisations were ignored when they warned of a large impending earthquake.As a mark of respect, the Olympic torch relay will be scaled back in response to the earthquake.The Chinese embassy in Cameroon said earlier that a fishing boat was hijacked off the coast of Cameroon. Seven Chinese fishermen were kidnapped in the incident, which happened on Friday, and a group called the "Africa Marine Commando" claimed responsibility, according to an embassy official."We are working together with the Cameroon authorities on ways and means of seeking their release," the official said. The ship was hijacked "in international waters off Bakassi", a peninsula in southwestern Cameroon.The Chinese news agency Xinhua quoted the Chinese embassy as saying that the kidnapped fishermen were being fed, and their lives were not in danger.The Agence France-Presse news agency quotes a source close to the investigation of the incident as saying that authorities from both Cameroon and China "are working jointly to secure their release," and that the fishermen were on a trawler when they were kidnapped.On Tuesday, the Chinese Foreign Ministry confirmed they had detained Hong Kong-based bookseller Gui Minhai. Ministry spokesperson Geng Shuang said, "Gui Minhai broke Chinese law and has already been subjected to criminal coercive measures in accordance with the law by relevant Chinese authorities".According to Minhai's daughter, Chinese police arrested Gui in Beijing in January. 53-year-old Minhai, who was diagnosed with a progressive neurodegenerative disease, was travelling to the Chinese capital to see a Swedish doctor. Minhai holds dual citizenship of Sweden and China, and has written about the Chinese Communist Party leaders of China, amongst them  Xi Jinping, the president of China. Geng Shuang in his statement said, "I want to once again stress that China opposes any form of speech or actions that ignore China's legal sovereignty."On Monday, Swedish Foreign Minister Margot Wallstrom stated, "Chinese action was contrary to basic international rules on consular support." "The current situation also raises questions about the application of the rule of law, including the prohibition of arbitrary deprivation of liberty. We demand that our citizen be given the opportunity to meet Swedish diplomatic and medical staff, and that he be released so that he can be reunited with his daughter and family", Wallstorm added.In October 2015, Gui disappeared in Thailand, and months later, he was found in China and stated he had surrendered for a 2003 case of driving under the influence of alcohol, in which reportedly a student died. He was imprisoned for two years, and was released in October, last year. He was not permitted to leave China.Geng Shuang said, "Although Gui Minhai is a Swedish citizen, the case he is involved in must be handled in accordance with Chinese law. China and Sweden are maintaining open communication channels on this case."Chinese media outlets, including news websites, could be fined up to $12,500 every time they report on "sudden events" without government permission, under a proposed law under consideration by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress."The law, revealed today in most state-run newspapers, would give government officials a powerful new tool to restrict coverage of mass outbreaks of disease, riots, strikes, accidents and other events that the authorities prefer to keep secret," says The New York Times. "More than 100 million Chinese have access to the Internet, and hundreds of commercially driven newspapers, magazines and television stations provide a much wider selection of news and information than was available in the recent past. As a result, Chinese authorities have also sought fresh ways to curtail reporting on topics and events they consider harmful to social and political stability."Editors and journalists, "say they receive constant bulletins from the Propaganda Department forbidding reporting on an ever-expanding list of taboo topics, including 'sudden events'," says the story, adding:"Journalists say local authorities are likely to interpret the law broadly, giving officials leeway to restrict coverage of any social and political disturbance that they consider embarrassing, like demonstrations over land seizures, environmental pollution or corruption."A Filipino police official said that Xili Wu, a Chinese buinessman held by al-Qaida-linked militants on a southern island for one and a half years, has been rescued.Amil Banaan, Chief Inspector of Sulu provincial police, says Wu was under the name Peter Go to hide his illegal status in the country before he was kidnapped by a terrorist organisation, the Abu Sayyaf.The police said the Abu Sayyaf abducted Wu in 2008, from his appliance store in Jolo township that he had opened after immigrating from China.The police claimed that no people were hurt during the fight between them and the Abu Sayyaf that took place during the rescue operation.The Abu Sayyaf group is on the US government's list of foreign terrorist organisations and is well known for staging kidnappings for ransom in the Southern Philippines.The Chinese Embassy has confirmed a report by the Al-Arabiya television station that the eight hostages held hostages in Iraq four days ago had been released unharmed.Al-Numan Battalion, the militant group holding the men had threatened to kill them if China failed to clarify its position on Iraq. It reportedly said in a videotape that the hostages were being freed after China said it had advised its citizens not to travel to Iraq."The Islamic Resistance Movement, al-Numan Battalion, has decided to release the eight citizens as a goodwill gesture for the friendship between the two countries of Iraq and China," the militant said on the tape. "They were not harmed during the period they were held and also they weren't exchanged for any amount of money," the rebel added.A Chinese human rights activist went on trial Friday in Beijing on charges relating to her participation in a protest last year.Wang Lihong, 56, faces charges of "creating a disturbance" after demonstrating in support of three bloggers accused of slandering Chinese government officials in April 2010. She was arrested in March this year. Wang pleaded not guilty, and faces a maximum penalty of five years in jail if convicted.A large group of police watched over supporters and other activists who had gathered outside the court.The case is the latest in what many believe is a crackdown by the Chinese government on dissenters. The use of online blogging by dissenters, supporters say, concerns the authorities as it allows information to be spread quickly and may lead to public unrest.Foreign and Chinese journalists were not allowed to enter the courtroom to hear the case.One of Wang's lawyers, Han Yicun, said it was an unfair trial. "I was interrupted many times, the judge did not allow me to talk, no matter how I tried to explain," he said. He said that the judge’s interruption obstructed the defence.A source of The Telegraph who was in the courtroom said, “at the beginning, she [Wang] said this is the 100th anniversary of the 1911 Revolution [that Overthrew the Qing Dynasty], as a citizen, we have responsibility to concern about the society.” However, the judge told Wang to only talk about her individual case, the source said.A verdict is expected in the coming weeks, but Han was not confident of an acquittal.Wang has previously been vocal in support of Liu Xiaobo, winner of the 2010 Nobel Peace prize, after he was jailed for 11 years for writing the Charter 08 pro-democracy petition.Police detained a nine-year-old after a blaze started in a wholesale market in Huizhou, Guangdong, southern China on Thursday afternoon. Seventeen died.According to police the child was playing with matches in a warehouse on the top-floor of the four-storey Yiwu Commodity Mall. Soon the entire floor was engulfed, leading to an eighteen-hour rescue mission involving 270 firefighters with 45 vehicles. Nine market managers have also been detained.The complex includes restaurants and a cinema. The cinema's bathroom, on the top floor, became a trap for ten of the victims. Firefighter Wan Jie told reporters "Our firemen tried several times to approach the fourth floor where the cinema was located, without success. It was too dark to see anything and the temperature was extremely high. We carried oxygen bottles as we crawled forward." He described how he and another firefighter almost ran out of oxygen while rescuing one girl. Around 300 people were evacuated. Photos at the scene showed medical personnel, some with stretchers, waiting en masse to treat casualties.Firefighters came from Shenzhen, Dongguan, and Shanwei to augment local forces. Four, including Wan Jie, were injured. "It was the worst and most dangerous fire I have ever attended," he said. The fire service said the entire building, which passed a safety inspection last month, was at risk of collapse. The fire was extinguished around 8a.m. local time yesterday.Southern Metropolis News released a list of suspected victims. Among them are a family of four and a fourteen-year-old girl from Hong Kong.Police in China announced yesterday the arrests of six people who reportedly pled guilty to murdering a woman by bludgeoning her to death at a McDonald's restaurant in the city of Zhaoyuan, Shandong province. Police said they believed the suspects, who included a man, his reportedly twelve-year-old son, and two daughters, along with two other women, were members of a cult known as Quannengshen, Chinese meaning "All-powerful spirit".Police said the victim, surname Wu, refused to give the man, surname Zhang, her telephone number when he solicited her for induction into the group, following which, Zhang began to bludgeon her with a mop before the other suspects joined in the assault. The Australian cited claims from uncensored websites saying the women who accompanied Zhang shouted "beat her to death" prior to attacking the victim themselves.The son, who can't be held criminally responsible in China due to his age, will be "dealt with separately" according to authorities. Following the incident, state broadcaster China Central Television reported discovery of religious material at a location connected to Quannengshen.Video footage of the assault has been uploaded to the internet, along with photos of Wu motionless on the floor of the restaurant in a pool of blood. Though taken to hospital, Wu, who was reportedly the mother of a young son, died. The incident has drawn the criticism of netizens online, who highlighted the presence of dozens of other customers in the restaurant who stood by and filmed the assault, while doing nothing to stop the attack or assist the victim. According to the newspaper Southern Metropolis Daily, Quannengshen, a doomsday cult which bases its ideology on the Christian Bible, began about twenty years ago in Heilongjiang province and now has members based in the eastern provinces of China. Reportedly the Chinese government declared the group an illegal "evil cult" in 1995. In December 2012, according to a report by the Beijing Morning News, seventeen cultists were arrested in Beijing for harassing people with an apocalyptic message in a public park.The incident comes amid ongoing efforts by the Chinese government to control religious movements who base their teachings on Christianity and Buddhism.  Another group, Falungong, also illegalized as an "evil cult", was suppressed by the government in 1999, and reportedly had a membership of millions. The government has detained tens of thousands of Falungong members and, according to the group, tortured members for their beliefs.McDonald's has released a statement on its Chinese microblog, expressing “deep-felt grief” for the incident, along with a promise the company would conduct an investigation. Chinese state news agency Xinhua quoted Shandong authorities, "Local provincial police authorities vowed to severely punish illegal activities of heretic sects to protect the safety of people's lives and property". When the Associated Press contacted the police headquarters in Zhaoyuan, they were told by a clerk there was no one available for comment.Chinese police are offering a reward of 300,000 yuan (US$43,900) over twin bombings on morning bus services earlier this week. Two people were killed in the attacks in Kunming.The explosions were both on route 54 and were caused by small nitroamine devices. Fourteen were wounded. The reward is triple the amount initially offered after the Monday attack.The first explosion was at 7:10 a.m. at Panjiawan Bus Stop on West Renmin Road. The second was on a bus at the intersection between Changyuan Road and West Renmin Road at 8:05 a.m. The second bus was close to its last stop of Minshan.Police are now asking anyone who used a route 54 bus between 6:00 and 8:30 a.m. that day to come forward.Armed Chinese police have surrounded and sealed off two monasteries in Tibet after monks began to celebrate the Dalai Lama's honor of receiving the United States Congressional Gold Medal. At least 100 monks are reported to be held inside the Drepung monastery and its not known if any have been injured or arrested. Earlier, at least 3,000 police surrounded the Zhaibung Monastery."[Chinese] police stopped an attempt by monks to peacefully mark the honor to the Dalai Lama last week [by sealing off the monastery]. Tibetan sources report a buildup of armed police in the city, checkpoints on roads out of Lhasa, and an order to Lhasa citizens not to carry out any religious or celebratory activities," said the International Campaign for Tibet in a report.Other protesters and monks are reported to have been arrested and injured when police began to clash with the celebrations which started on October 16 inside the monastery. Beginning in the morning on October 17, police began to intervene to stop the celebrations throughout Tibet.China claims that it is not aware of any report, and has not commented on the situation in Tibet.The government of China announced it would begin three days of mourning on Monday, as the death toll from the 7.9 magnitude earthquake centered in the Sichuan province has been raised to nearly 32,500, with 220,000 injured. At 2:28 p.m local time, flags will be moved to half mast for three days, there will be three minutes of silence, and entertainment in public will be suspended for the mourning period.Authorities have continued to pull victims out of the rubble resulting from the quake, 65 since the original quake, with two pulled out alive more than six days after the earthquake. Rescuers are also trying to pull out two still alive. More than 9,500 people are still trapped under rubble throughout the province.Chinese authorities are worried as aftershocks continue to affect the region devastated by the initial earthquake, while water builds up in clogged rivers. An 5.8 magnitude aftershock shook buildings and caused people to evacuate in Chengdu, 200 km (125 miles) south of the aftershock's epicenter. The aftershock killed three people and injured 1,000 others. A buildup of water is occurring 3 km (2 miles) upstream of Beichuan, where a man was freed from under a hospital's remains.Chinese President Hu Jintao said to families of victims in Yinghua that "We will make every effort to save our people even if there is only the slightest hope and possibility." They are preventing people from going into the affected region for fear of these conditions. Families of possible victims who tried to enter the affected region were not allowed into the area by police, due to fears of aftershocks and the clogged rivers.60 aid organizations from 13 countries have assisted so far with the earthquake, including Japan, Russia, Taiwan, South Korea, the United States and Singapore, and in addition to aid from inside China there has been 6 billion yuan (858 million United States dollars) of aid.Canadian authorities report that a Chinese restaurant in the Chinatown area of Toronto has been closed down by the Board of Public Health for the second time yesterday after investigators saw a video and pictures of a rat in the window. The photos were posted on websites and local TV.  Witnesses around the area report that they have seen rats crossing the streets, often going in and out of the restaurant. Jesse Ship, arts editor of Format Magazine, filmed the picture of the rat while on his way to work. "I was just walking past Happy Seven [the restaurant] today on Spadina and snagged images of a rat in the window on my cell phone, sitting right next to the health inspector sign," he said, commenting on his find. "The restaurant wasn't open yet."The video of the rat in the restaurant, which according to blogTO, is one of the most liked Chinese restaurants in Toronto, was then posted on the video sharing site Vimeo four days ago. It took a couple of days after the publication of the video to attract widespread press attention. Until the video of the rat was made public, officials believed that the restaurant was safe, giving it a pass for food safety. The restaurant will be given permission to reopen once professionals are hired to remove the rats, and inspectors are satisfied that they have been removed.Inspectors have closed 41 restaurants in Toronto this year, six of which have been in the same area as Happy Seven. Of the restaurants in the same area, half have been for rat problems.Canadian think tanks SecDev Group and the Munk Centre for International Studies at the University of Toronto have released findings from a 10 month investigation exposing an internet spy network based mostly in China which has hacked into computers and networks owned by government and private organizations in 103 countries.Allegations that the Chinese government was infiltrating computers set up by the Tibetan exile community prompted the initial investigation. Following up on the leads, investigators found at least 1,295 computers belonging to a range of governments and private organizations world wide were affected, including the Tibetan exiles' centres in Brussels, India, London, and New York.The spy network, dubbed 'GhostNet', appears to have focused on Foreign Affairs ministries, embassies, and international organizations including breaking into at least one computer at NATO. 30% of the machines infected were considered high-value targets according to the report published Sunday in Information Warfare Monitor. The report details the malware used in the attacks, pointing out that it provides extensive control of the infected computer to the outside source, even to monitoring microphones or cameras attached to the machine.Wenqi Gao, spokesman at the Chinese consulate in New York City told the New York Times that allegations of Chinese governmental involvement were "old stories" and "nonsense." Another report released on Sunday from Cambridge University alleges the Chinese government or a group working closely with it initiated the attacks on the Tibetan organizations. In that attack, control of an e-mail server was also achieved, giving the attackers access to all messages sent by the Dalai Lama's supporters.Jiao Dan, a 22-year-old Chinese student from Changsha, in Hunan province, was found dead at about 6:00 a.m. on October 9 in the Perth, Western Australia suburb Innaloo by passers-by. The cause-of-death has not yet been confirmed. The woman is believed to have been returning home from her cleaning job in the city on Monday. She was found naked below the waist and with 'facial injuries'. Miss Dan was recorded alighting from a train at Stirling train station at approximately 11 p.m., even though close friend Min Ding said she had warned the Edith Cowan University student to not use the train at night, as it was 'not safe'. Police have not yet charged anyone over the incident.University of Cambridge security expert Professor Ross Anderson has blasted the EMV system used worldwide for credit and debit card transactions, and known in the UK as Chip and PIN, after his research team discovered a serious vulnerability.  The group were able to carry out purchases using a card, even without knowing the associated personal identification number (PIN), by using a "man-in-the-middle" attack.Retail terminals at the point of sale require the cardholder to insert their card and enter their secret PIN before a transaction can be authorised. They then communicate with the microchip built in to the card itself, which holds the PIN. If the correct number has been given, this chip returns a standard verification code (0x9000) to the terminal.In the researchers' attack they inserted a genuine card into a second reader, connected to a laptop. The laptop is linked by thin wires to a fake card, which is inserted into the retailer's terminal. The laptop relays the communications between the terminal and the stolen, but genuine, card, up until the stage where the PIN is to be checked. At this point it intercepts and responds with the verification code, no matter what number was entered. The retailer's terminal then believes that the correct PIN has been entered, and the card can be told that a signature was used to verify the cardholder instead.Their technique has been tested successfully on cards from six different issuers: Bank of Scotland, Barclaycard, Co-operative Bank, Halifax, HSBC and John Lewis.The group say that not much technical skill is required for the attack, and suggested the equipment needed could be kept in a backpack, with the wires to the fake card running down a user's sleeve. They believe the equipment could be miniaturised to the size of a remote control."In practice how this attack would work is that one reasonably technically skilled person would build a device that carries out the attack and then sell this equipment on the internet just like criminals already do," said Dr Steven Murdoch who worked on the project.Professor Anderson claimed that the attack could already be in use by criminals. "We have many examples of people who have had their cards stolen and then purchases made using the chip and pin," he said. "They are adamant they didn't use it but if the banks say chip and pin has been used you have to pay. I think many of these people would have been victim of the kind of technique we have developed."He was scathing about bank claims that the system was secure. "The banks are wrong. All the banks are lying. They are maliciously and wilfully deceiving the customer. If there was any justice then the police would be looking into this. The system is not fit for purpose."Consumer group Which? have also called for an investigation, stating that in a recent survey one in seven people said that money had been taken from their accounts without authorisation. Around half of these did not have the money refunded by the bank."We want the banks to look into these potential flaws," said Cathy Neal from Which? Money, "because we have had many examples where the banks have said a pin was used and the customer said it hasn't."Over 90 percent of UK card transactions at point-of-sale use chip and PIN, according to the UK Payments Administration. The attack does not affect ATM transactions, which use different standards. Mark Bowerman, a spokesman for the group which represents card companies, said that there was no evidence the attack was in use and emphasised that card fraud had fallen with the introduction of chip and PIN."We are taking this paper very seriously, as maintaining excellent levels of card security is paramount," he said. "However, we strongly refute the allegation that chip and PIN is broken."The research paper has been made available as a working draft, and is due to be published at the IEEE Security and Privacy Symposium in May 2010. Members of the banking industry were informed of the vulnerability in early December last year.U.S. military censors blocked a Pentagon lawyer's donation of a book by U.S. dissident intellectual, Noam Chomsky, to an inmate at the U.S military prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  The Arabic version of the book, 9/11, was donated to the Guantanamo Bay library's collection of  over 16,000 items, but rejected with a standard note of unacceptable material for the collection.  Activist and intellectual Noam Chomsky responded by saying, "This happens sometimes in totalitarian regimes."  Adding, "[o]f some incidental interest, perhaps, is the nature of the book they banned. It consists of op-eds written for The New York Times syndicate and distributed by them. The subversive rot must run very deep." The intended recipient of the Arabic version of 9/11 was Ali Hamza al Bahlul, former media secretary for Al Qaeda.  Bahlul is serving life in prison for creating a video showing footage of Osama Bin Laden giving a speech followed by images of violent attacks by the U.S. military on Muslims and footage of the aftermath of the USS Cole bombing.A Navy spokesman for Guantanamo Bay did not comment on the details of why this particular book was denied, but suggested the book was banned to avoid "impact on good order and discipline."  The spokesman also said that books that promote “Anti-American, Anti-Semitic, Anti-Western” material or contain themes relating to “military topics”, “excessive graphic violence”, or “sexual dysfunctions" would be banned from the prison library.Chris Huhne, Liberal Democrat MP for Eastleigh, has resigned from his position as Energy Secretary in the cabinet of the UK's coalition government as he will face a prosecution for perverting the course of justice over a 2003 speeding incident.In 2003, Huhne informed the police that his ex-wife, Vicky Pryce, had been driving his car and was responsible for a speeding ticket. Pryce accepted the speeding ticket and the penalty points for the offence were put on Pryce's driving license. The new charges contend Huhne was in fact the driver.The Director of Public Prosecutions, Kier Starmer QC, gave a statement this morning announcing the prosecution of both Huhne and Pryce. Huhne has resigned and he will be replaced in the Cabinet by Ed Davey MP. Norman Lamb MP is expected to take the Business Minister job Davey is vacating. Huhne and Pryce are scheduled to appear at the Westminster Magistrates Court on February 16.Huhne said the charges were "deeply regrettable" and vowed to contest them: "I am innocent of these charges and I intend to fight them in the courts and I am confident a jury will agree."The British actor Chris Langham has been found guilty on 15 counts of downloading child pornography. A jury of four women and seven men took two hours and forty minutes to reach a verdict at Maidstone Crown Court. Judge Philip Statman said that Langham will remain in custody till his sentencing on September 14.Langham, 58, from Goldford, Kent claimed that he had been studying porn sites, researching for a character called, "Pedro," for the television series Help. However, co-star Paul Whitehouse claimed he had no knowledge of this research. Langham refused to answer questions about certain images found on his computer.During his time in court, Langham claimed that he was abused at the age of eight during a holiday to Canada. He also said his brothers and sisters were abused, and that he felt no shame at looking at child pornography. Langham said he pleaded not guilty because he did not want to be labelled a, "Paedophile".Langham however was cleared of charges of indecently assaulting an underage girl. The girl claimed that Langham took her virginity at the age of 14, but Judge Statman said, "The Crown accepts that there is no evidence to support these particular counts on the indictment."Langham said, in a statement read out by his solicitor, "I am absolutely delighted my name has been cleared of all the charges I have consistently denied. I have been found guilty on charges I have made admission to from the moment of my first arrest. I am grateful to the jury for their careful deliberation and I would also like to thank the press for their restraint in not making the lives of my wife, children and family difficult during this time and I implore them to continue to grant my family the privacy they need. I am afraid I am unable to comment further until sentence on the 14 September."Derek Cuff, Deputy Inspector of Kent Police said, "Let us not forget that child abuse images circulating on the internet are real situations involving real children, who are sexually abused for other's gain and self-gratification. Viewing such images simply perpetuates child abuse. The jury had to view some images that had to be selected carefully - but what they saw and heard in evidence is harrowing and disturbing. I think this itself puts some measure of perspective on the level of child abuse we are dealing with."This will affect the filming of the next series of the satirical sitcom The Thick of It, where Langham plays Hugh Abbot MP. The last two special episodes did not star Langham due to his arrest. Writer Armando Iannucci hoped that if Langham was found not guilty, he would be able to appear in his show again.British comedy actor Chris Langham has been sentenced to ten months imprisonment for downloading indecent images of children from the internet, less 43 days for the time he served in custody.Langham, 58, most famous for his award-winning role in the sitcom The Thick of It was found guilty of 15 counts of downloading of child abuse, including sadism and non-consensual sex between adults and children. The police classified some of the images downloaded as category 5, the most severe grade. Langham claimed that he had used the images as research for a character in the BBC comedy Help, a paedophile character called, "Pedro". Langham was however, found not guilty of sexually assaulting a teenage girl and two counts of a serious sexual offence.Passing sentence, Judge Philip Statman told Langham, "Some of the children viewed are clearly prepubescent, others are fully developed, some of the children are clearly of Filipino extract. All have had inflicted upon them horrifying sexual abuse and, I want to make this absolutely clear to you, I must think first of those children. When one sees their faces, in my judgment, they are vacant and lacking in expression... you never ever see the faces of the perpetrators. They are too young to consent. Your activity took place in the comfort of your own home, no doubt at the time feeling safe in the knowledge that you would never be caught."British comedy actor Chris Langham has won an appeal to have the sentence reduced in his conviction for downloading indecent images of children from the internet. Originally sentenced to 10 months in prison, Langham's sentence has now been cut to 6 months, and he is set to be released today.Langham, 58, had been found guilty on 15 counts for downloading child pornography. Police claimed that several images found on Langham's computer were of the worst category, "Level 5" severity. However, Langham claimed that he was using the images for researching a character in a TV series called Help. Dame Heather Steel, one of Britain's most senior female judges agreed that the sentence could be cut.Langham was arrested in 2005. During his original trial, Langham was found not guilty of indecently assaulting an underage girl. He had appealed his sentence previously, but was rejected in October 2006.A man in Christchurch, New Zealand has pleaded guilty to murdering his wife and a neighbour in his home. Jason Somerville said he killed them out of anger and admitted having sex with their bodies after strangling them. Local press has dubbed the case the House of Horrors.Somerville, 33, killed Tisha Lowry, 28, on September 25, 2008. Lowry had been walking to her home just two doors from Somerville where she lived with her grandfather. A statement of fact released today said that the victim arrived at Somerville's sometime between 10.50am and 12.30pm. Somerville, who was alone in the house, let his neighbour in when she knocked, Lowry having visited the Somervilles before.Inside the house a fight developed, with Somerville grabbing Lowry around the throat with both hands and strangled her. Lowry fought back, kicking and punching, but Somerville tightened his grip until Lowry went limp. He then held on for some time before releasing his hold, blocking up her throat with a pair of his wife's underwear. He then removed her jeans and underwear and had sex with the body.Somerville took Lowry's body to the cupboard beneath his stairs before rushing out to a meeting scheduled early that afternoon. An hour later he returned, removed a manhole under the stairs and left the body half-naked in a space below the house, which he then cleaned before his wife came home. When his wife, Rebecca Chamberlain, got home at 3:00 she was clueless as in to what had just occured in her home.Rebecca Chamberlain left home the following day for a meeting that Somerville knew would keep her occupied for some time. The summary statement of fact stated that Somerville returned to Lowry's corpse, removed such clothes as were still on it and "again sexually violated her body by having sexual intercourse with her." After this he buried her beneath the house in a shallow grave.By September 28 Lowry had been reported missing and police questioned her killer on October 5, 2008 during routine enquiries. Somerville stated that he and Chamberlain often saw Lowry on the bus and that a month earlier she had knocked at their door looking for another person. He went on to state that he let her in and they talked about estate agents as he had been looking to sell up at the time. She then walked through the house and after initially assuming she was going to the toilet Somerville alleged he found Lowry rifling through the wardrobe, and asked her to leave. Lowry's family would go on to make repeated TV appeals for information on her whereabouts.Chamberlain was murdered after her husband woke up at 9.30 am on August 30, 2009 and made sexual advances. After she repeatedly refused him, he went downstairs and made himself a coffee before returning to the bedroom to try again. Chamberlain was killed after she again refused to comply; he strangled her in a headlock until her pulse stopped, then squeezed her arteries before again stuffing underwear down her throat. Then he had sex with her.When he was done, he dragged the corpse down the stair and through the manhole, before burying her in the sand beside Lowry. At 2:15 Christchurch police received a call from Somerville stating that his wife had not returned home after setting out for church at 10:30. Police spoke with him and he said he felt the fact she left her keys was out of character. Her handbag, cellphone and bank cards were also left, and he stated she was a recovering alcoholic with a history of self-harm who was on antidepressants. He said that none of his wife's friends and family knew anything when he inquired on her whereabouts.On September 2 police contacted him and he stated there was no sign of his wife. The day after he went to his local police station to report that he had found his wife's glasses and wedding ring had been posted through his letterbox overnight. However, upon questioning he admitted the killings. Police then searched his house and found the bodies.Somerville was remanded in custody until sentencing after today's proceedings at the Christchurch District Court. He is to be sentenced before the High Court on November 27, at which point the court will refer to psychiatric reports, a pre-sentence report and victim impact statements from Somerville's children. The children are in the care of families affiliated with the Taupo Baptist Church, which the family had attended for four years. Minister Keith Harrington said his congregation had prayed for Somerville to plead guilty if he was, adding that he was pleased the killer had avoided a traumatic trial both for the sake of the victims' families and Somerville's own wellbeing.Somerville's house, variously reported as being on Hampshire Street and Wainoni Road, has faced two attempts to burn it down, and the council is currently in a controversial attempt to buy it from its current owners. Neighbours wish to see it converted into a facility for the community.On the eve of December 7, 2007 Dr. Reginald Humayun, a Christian doctor working for Pennell Memorial Christian Hospital in Bannu, Pakistan, was kidnapped along with his driver while returning from a trip to Dera Ismail Khan. The doctor, a medical superintendent at that hospital, was also the General Secretary of the Church of Pakistan.  The All Pakistan Minority Alliance, the Church of Pakistan and the Christian community as a whole have appealed to the Government to expedite efforts for the doctor's safe recovery.Dar Ali Khatak, leading the investigation by the Bannu Police has expressed deep concerns and vows to find the hostages though until now no progress has been seen. With the recent state of politics in Pakistan, it is becoming increasingly difficult for those who are providing humanitarian services.Charles Eugene Flowers and Stephanie Bassitt, who run Love Demonstrated Ministries in San Antonio, Texas, United States, have been arrested and charged with aggravated assault for tying a girl to their van and dragging her behind it on her stomach.The victim had stopped running with a group of campers, after falling behind. She says Bassitt yelled at her while Flowers tied her to the van.The girl was treated for injuries on her stomach, legs and arms. She reported that this was the second assault. Flowers and Bassitt remain in jail on US$100,000 bond each.Love Demonstrated Ministries is a 32-day Christian boot camp for girls whose parents feel they are "at risk teens". Such camps have raised controversy before.An organization called the International Survivors Action Committee maintains a list of U.S. organizations where numerous abusive incidents have been reported; however, their list should not be taken as exhaustive. Neither Love Demonstrated Ministries nor New Horizons Youth Ministries, which has an alumni site describing abuse appeared.The man who murdered Christina Grimmie following a June 10 concert lived "like a hermit" and had apparently never met the singer, but was infatuated with her and had spent recent months changing his appearance in an effort to win her over, according to information released on Wednesday by police in Orlando, Florida.Kevin James Loibl, age 27, took a taxicab to Orlando on June 9 from his St. Petersburg home, bringing along two 9mm Glock handguns and extra ammunition. He spent that night in a hotel. Following Grimmie's June 10 performance at The Plaza Live, he approached her as she signed autographs and opened fire, shooting her in the head once and the torso three times. Grimmie's brother Marcus then tackled Loibl, who broke free, backed against a wall, and killed himself with a single shot to the head.Christina Grimmie was pronounced dead at Orlando Regional Medical Center just before 11:00 p.m. She was buried in a private ceremony in her hometown in New Jersey on June 16. A public memorial in nearby Medford attracted thousands of family, friends and fans.Police interviewed several of Loibl's co-workers including Cory Dennington, self-described as Loibl's "only friend in the world", who said Loibl had an unrealistic infatuation with her and was constantly watching her videos and monitoring her online activity. Dennington said Loibl had lost weight, whitened his teeth, and gotten eye and hair surgery in an effort to look better for Grimmie, whom he considered his "soul mate". Loibl would get defensive when told hoping for a relationship with the singer was "illogical".Witnesses also said Loibl had not mentioned attending Grimmie's Orlando concert, and none of them knew of any threats. His father and brother did not know Loibl owned any guns, police said. Each weapon was purchased legally at one of two St. Petersburg gun shops.Investigators were unable to crack the encryption on Loibl's phone, and it appeared he had destroyed his computer's hard drive. Police believe Loibl acted alone and, since he is deceased, they closed their case on Wednesday. They offered no motive for the shooting.Julie-Ann Valliday, 35, and her 40-year-old husband Charles Stephen Valliday were remanded in custody Tuesday after appearing in Belfast Magistrates' Court, Northern Ireland, having both been charged with the murder of Christopher Mackin on March 1. A police officer stated the accused "worked together" and "lured" Mackin to his death.Meanwhile, a 27-year-old man has been released from custody without condition, after he was arrested by police on Monday in relation to Mackin's murder. Previously, a 24-year-old woman also had been released on no conditions after arrest over the same incident.In the Vallidays' case, the court was informed of fifteen cartridges discovered at the murder scene, College Square North in Belfast. A detective inspector told the court of Mackin and Julie-Ann arranging to meet each other, in the four hours before his killing, contacting each other by phone and via text on fifty instances. Text messages by Mackin illustrated he "had some concerns and suspected he may have been set up for something, but nevertheless went on to have the meeting", the detective stated. The detective said Charles was a drug dealer in the Northern Irish capital, with his wife also involved.Defence lawyers have suggested the case against their clients is weak. Paul McCrudden, Julie-Ann's lawyer, cited an absence of evidence linking Julie-Ann to the murder scene, claiming the case was based "on police speculation, on backstreet rumour and on salacious gossip". Similarly, Billy McNulty, Charles' lawyer, described the charge against his client as "hastily cobbled together, based on speculation, rumour, innuendo, call it what you like, but no concrete evidence to link Mr Valliday to the charge".The couple have been denied bail for murder, with the judge citing concerns relating to absconding, witness interference and the absence of any murder weapon, which the detective said was "still out there".In an interview on a television show called the No Drug Show, hosted by Larry Byrnes, the Church of Scientology blamed both the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States and the attack on Pearl Harbor on psychiatrists and the drugs they prescribe their patients. Scientology considers psychiatry to be barbaric and a violation of human rights.The video was posted on the video sharing website YouTube, but was later removed "due to a copyright claim by Axiom 10 Productions, Inc." Mark Bunker of XenuTV questioned why Axiom 10 would utilize the Digital Millennium Copyright Act to remove the video from YouTube, as it was promoting their ideology about psychiatrists. It was later re-added to another site called Vimeo.com.David Figueroa, a spokesperson for the Citizens Commission On Human Rights (CCHR), a human rights group founded by the Church in 1969, said, "terrorism employs violence. Against not just the general public, like in 9/11, but against individuals when they are captured." Figueroa is president of the CCHR organization in Florida."To take [a] person, and turn them into a killing machine, against their will or have them do things that are against their nature, you need something behind that. Psychiatrists employ drugs and conditioning techniques in order to change people from what they would normally be, into killing machines," added Figueroa. He also says that the leader of al-Qaeda, Osama bin Laden got the idea to form the terrorist group from his second in command, Ayman al-Zawahiri in 1988. Then 13 years later, 19 terrorists hijacked four U.S. commercial airliners, crashing two into the World Trade Center towers, one into the The Pentagon and one into a field in Pennsylvania. The attacks killed nearly 3,000 people."He was [bin Laden] just transformed from someone who was a supporter" of the "jihad" against the Russian occupation of Afghanistan, into someone whose "whole thought patterns and his entire viewpoint was changed by Zawahiri, and by whatever types of drugs Zawahiri used to make that change in bin Laden, we don't know", said Figueroa, who adds that Zawahiri was acting as a "psychiatrist". In another show hosed by Byrnes, former CCHR-International president Dennis H. Clarke claims Zawahiri to be a "psychiatrist, a therapist"; Zawahiri is referred to in this program as the "guy who runs" bin Laden. However, Zawahiri is actually a surgeon; he is not a psychiatrist or a psychologist.Figueroa goes on to say that Japanese kamikaze pilots responsible for bombing Pearl Harbor, Hawaii in December of 1941 were "on amphetamines which is a psychiatric drug" when they attacked. However, the Japanese did not employ kamikaze tactics until later in the war.  Wikinews has contacted the CCHR for a statement regarding Figueroa's remarks, but have yet to receive a reply. Scientology-associated publications have also attributed tragedies including the Jonestown massacre and the Holocaust to psychiatry.At the conclusion of the television program, the host promotes a brochure which he says illustrates how "notorious terrorist acts like 9/11 were basically created by psychiatrists operating behind the scenes".The issue of Scientology's stance on psychiatry was brought to the forefront in the media during a 2005 appearance by Tom Cruise on NBC's program Today with Matt Lauer. At the time Cruise told Lauer he was critical of psychiatry and the use of antidepressants. In a December 2008 appearance on the Today show on a promotional tour for his film Valkyrie, Cruise told Lauer he wanted to apologize and felt he appeared arrogant in his 2005 interview.This is not the first time the Church made false accusations for acts of violence. In October 2008, the Church falsely accused the internet protest group Anonymous of a 2007 school shooting in Finland. They accused Anonymous of being involved in the November 2007 shooting at Jokela High School, in which a man named Pekka-Eric Auvinen shot and killed nine people, including himself. The Church accused Auvinen of being part of Anonymous, and further accused the group of plotting the attack. The National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) in Finland later told Wikinews that Anonymous had nothing to do with the crime.The Church of Scientology's second petition for an injunction against online protest group Anonymous was denied by Judge Douglas Baird of Pinellas County, Florida. The first petition, filed Tuesday, against Anonymous was denied  yesterday by Judge Linda Allan. The injunction sought to prevent members of Anonymous from coming within 500 feet of Church of Scientology buildings. At time of publishing, the Church has not responded to a request for comment.The ruling reads:Wikinews has learned that the Church of Scientology has begun to falsely accuse the internet protest group Anonymous of a 2007 school shooting in Finland. The Church, on October 18, 2008 accused Anonymous of being involved in the November 2007 shooting at Jokela High School, in which a man named Pekka-Eric Auvinen shot and killed nine people, including himself."Anonymous member Pekka-Eric Auvinen shot and killed seven students, a nurse and a teacher at Jokela High School in Finland before turning the gun on himself and taking his own life," said the Church in the October 18 press release. On October 17, the President of the Church of Scientology in New York City, John Carmichael, also accused Anonymous of being behind the shooting. One month ago, an article on CNN's citizen journalism wing, iReport, also accused Anonymous of being behind the shooting, and several other alleged terrorist plots. The article also went on to accuse Anonymous of being behind the suicide of 14-year-old Megan Meier who killed herself after being 'cyber-bullied'. Scientology says the initial attack was done by a member of Anonymous named Josh Evans, who later turned out to be a false alias created by Lori Drew, the mother of one of Meier's friends. Meier's mother had previously had a falling out with Drew.Wikinews contacted the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) in Finland by e-mail, seeking evidence or a statement to confirm or deny any connection to Anonymous and verify or debunk the claim made by the Church. Wikinews was able to confirm that there was no connection between Anonymous and the 2007 shooting."According to the leader of the criminal investigation of the Jokela High School Shooting in 2007, there was no link between the group called 'Anonymous' and the offender [Auvinen]," said Tapio Ahola, Detective Chief Inspector of the NBI to Wikinews.The Church also accuses Anonymous of plotting terrorist attacks against other schools, stadiums and even plotting a mall massacre which would allegedly have taken place in Los Angeles, California. The Church says that Jarrad Willis, who was arrested and questioned after posting the hoax massacre threat on 4chan.org, committed suicide while awaiting charges of internet crimes. Wikinews found that his suicide happened just one day before he was to be charged for a crime unrelated to the threat and that authorities had dropped all other charges against him, in relation to the hoax.The accusations appear to be part of a Scientology tactic developed by the organization's founder, L. Ron Hubbard called "fair-game". The Church uses this tactic to harass people, often fabricating lies and defamation against those who protest or criticize their beliefs. Wikinews contacted the Church several times by e-mail for a statement, but the Church has yet to reply.According to a report by Agence France-Presse (AFP), the Church of Scientology in France will be facing a court trial, being accused of "organized" fraud. The AFP also states that seven other Scientologists will be charged with illegally prescribing prescription medication. If found guilty, Scientology could be banned in France.According to the report, the charges come from an unnamed woman, who in 1998 purchased nearly US$30,000 worth of Scientology self-help material which allegedly included prescription drugs. After a few months passed, the woman said she felt like she was being scammed. Following several complaints from other unnamed individuals and an investigation, judge Jean-Christophe Hullin ordered at least two Scientology departments and the seven Scientologists to be put on trial for fraud and "illegally practicing as pharmacists."The Church released a statement following the order saying that they felt "stigmatized" by the French judicial system."The special treatment reserved for the Church of Scientology Celebrity Center raises questions about the equality of the justice system and the presumption of innocence," the Church said in a statement to the press.The AFP says the case is to be heard at an unknown date, and will also include an investigation by France's association for prescription drugs. Olivier Morice, a lawyer representing the unnamed woman and others in the case against the Church, say the trial could begin as early as 2009.On September 5, an alleged rights group called the American Rights Counsel LLC attempted to have at least 4,000 anti-Scientology videos removed from the video sharing website YouTube, filing a DMCA request. Upon further investigation, Wikinews found that most videos and clips were added to YouTube by the copyright holders of the material; as DMCA requests are for the purposes of requesting removal where service providers host material that infringe on the copyright of the complainant, the merit of these requests remain questionable. It was also discovered that the alleged rights group does not exist as a physical entity which started rumors from the internet and from one Scientology critic Mark Bunker, that the Church fraudulently submitted the DMCA requests.Wikinews has learned that the Church of Scientology warned the documents-leaking site Wikileaks.org that they are in violation of United States copyright laws after they published several documents related to the Church. Wikileaks has no intention of complying, and states that in response, it intends to publish a thousand pages of additional Scientology materials beginning Monday.In the letter to Wikileaks, lawyers for the Church's Religious Technology Center (RTC), which oversees the use of the their logos, writings and religious content, states that the site "placed RTC's Advanced Technology works on Wikileaks.org's website without the authorization" of the Church."I have a good faith belief, and in fact know for certain, that posting copies of these works through your system was not authorized by my client, any agent of my client, or the law. Please be advised that your customer's action in this regard violates United States copyright law. Accordingly, we ask for your help in removing these works immediately from your service," states the letter from Ava Paquette of Moxon & Kobrin, which was published by Wikileaks.On March 9, 2008, Wikileaks published several documents relating to the Church's Office of Special Affairs and personal notes gathered by Frank Oliver, a former Scientologist and former member of the Church's Special Affairs office. On March 26, 2008, Wikileaks published the entire set of the Churches 'Operating Thetan Level' documents which included handwritten notes by Scientology's founder, L. Ron Hubbard.Although the letter does not mention specific legal threats, the letter asks that Wikileaks "preserve any and all documents pertaining to this matter and this customer, including, but not limited to, logs, data entry sheets, applications -- electronic or otherwise, registration forms, billings statements or invoices, computer print-outs, disks, hard drives, etc."Despite the letter, Wikileaks states it will not comply with the "abusive request" by the Church."Wikileaks will not comply with legally abusive requests from Scientology any more than Wikileaks has complied with similar demands from Swiss banks, Russian off-shore stem cell centers, former African Kleptocrats, or the Pentagon. Wikileaks will remain a place where people of the world may safely expose injustice and corruption," stated Wikileaks in a release on its website.Wikileaks further states that, "in response to the attempted suppression, Wikileaks will release several thousand additional pages of Scientology material next week."Claiming that "actions are being taken", a person replying to emails to the Church of Scientology has responded exclusively to Wikinews regarding the recent attacks on their web sites from the nebulous "Anonymous" group. In an effort to get the Church's side of the story, Wikinews freelance journalist Brian McNeil located a contact address, knowledge@lrh.org. A "Laetitia" responded, ignoring a detailed list of questions that would have given information on the damage inflicted on the Church and action taken. Instead non-specific comments about how the Church is handling the issue were given. She first started by asking if Wikinews was "part of Anonymous or are you pro-Scientology?""Activities of Anonymous have been reported to the Authorities and actions are being taken. Their activities are illegal and we do not approve of them. At the same time, our main work is to improve the environment, make people more able and spiritually aware. ... yes, we are taking action," said Laetitia.'Anonymous' first came to public attention when the group launched denial-of-service attacks against the Church's website, following the Church's attempts to remove a promotional video featuring Scientologist Tom Cruise from YouTube.  Although YouTube is complying with the requests to remove the video, other sites such as Gawker.com have stated that they will continue hosting the video.  Fielding expert opinions on the Church's response, Wikinews turned to Andreas Heldal-Lund, the creator of the Operation Clambake project, as well as a former Scientologist who wished to remain anonymous."I believe strongly in freedom of speech and, living in the best country in the world, I came to the conclusion that I had to help protest this cult. To me CoS [Church of Scientology] was then, and still is, a fascistic organization and a real threat to our democratic principles," said Andreas Heldal-Lund, the creator of Operation Clambake."The strategy was to disarm the cult; if they took down something I linked to, I had made preparations to link to another copy or host it myself. The more they resisted it the more attention we got, the more the information was spread and the more people got involved. It felt like a cat and mouse game for many years. What for me started as a weekend stunt grew far beyond my initial scope and Operation Clambake became the site most critics linked and referred to," added Heldal-Lund.Heldal-Lund states that the effort of the Church to remove criticism of its organization from the web is failing."The cult 'Orgs' are 'dead'. Recruiting in most western countries where they once experienced a healthy organic growth is very hard. All their most secret documents are spread beyond recall and easily available for anybody interested. More people than we ever dreamed now know about Scientology and at least that it 'smells fishy'. All the information we once fought day and night to protect is now easily available for free and on the top of Google. The cult has even given up threatening us," added Heldal-Lund who also said that there are "no major lawsuits ongoing or pending" against Operation Clambake."We are taking action, Anonymous will be handled and stopped, but not to the detriment of us stopping all community outreach activities. We've had people throw attacks at us in the past as they do not agree with the betterment of people. History is strewn with such people who start wars, wreak havoc etc. and they never continue to exist in the long run as their purpose is one of destruction. That's a statistical and historical fact," stated Laetitia.Laetitia had earlier stated that Wikinews was not allowed to use the quotes that they provided saying they, "have a problem with [Wikinews] quoting this. You are writing on a help website and it isn't the right source for the "Scientology opinion," but later acknowledged that the inquiries were of a press nature stating, "you have made it clear [that you are a journalist] and I appreciate you being upfront on the matter."An expert evaluation on the e-mails by a former Church member and expert on the religion reveals that  Laetitia may have slipped, providing information that she may not have been authorized to provide."The person you were speaking to was from the 'Planetary Dissemination Org' (PDO), a unit within the Sea Org responsible for promoting Scientology to new recruits which is responsible for Scientology’s websites. Most probably, the person that you were talking to did not have permission to talk to the press, which is why the person got edgy when publication was talked about. Judging by the way she responded, I am of the opinion that she felt that Wikinews was 'PTS' [Potential Trouble Source] as a result of being connected to whoever Scientology believes 'Anonymous' is, thus was attempting to handle Wikinews’ suppressive tendencies that they believe would occur as a result. It is also interesting to note that she followed a Scientology training document entitled 'BTB 10 DEC 1969 REPORTER TRs'," said the expert who wishes to remain totally anonymous."'Then using different questions, the PRO [Public Relations Officer] gives 'no answers'. The trick is to appear to answer the question by giving generalized statements in simple terms so that the reporter doesn't realize his question hasn't been answered'. Aside from being an obvious filibuster, it also shows she has been trained to deal with reporters," added the expert who also said that the question the Church asked Wikinews: 'Are you part of Anonymous or are you pro-Scientology', "I find this particularly interesting as an example of Scientological for-or-against logic. In other words, if you aren't pro-Scientology, the writer reasoned, you must be a member of Anonymous because you wouldn't be writing to her."As the war between the Internet and Scientology rages on, the owner of 711chan.org says that he is prepared to "re-enter the CoS scene", and respond to The Regime, a hacker group which attempted to shut down 711chan using keylogging to gain an administrator password to 711chan. Prior to the site coming back online this morning, Plasma, the owner and operator of 711chan.org, had this to say; "The g00ns, one of our allies, are working on getting "The Regime" and told us to get right back into the CoS scene -- which means as soon as 711chan is back online, we will be re-entering raid mode." Also, despite earlier claims and suspicions that The Regime might have been hired by or be part of the Church of Scientology, Plasma told Wikinews that The Regime "are not part of the Church. g00ns [organization] have a long history with 'immortal', and what 'immortal' is trying to do is get at g00ns by using 711chan. It's nothing against us."The website came back online this morning, and already over 18,000 posts have been made on its functioning imageboards. The owners have, via a message posted on the homepage of the site, promised to restore the other boards in the coming weeks dependent on which boards the users would like to see revived. One Anonymous user of the site had this to say about the revival, "711 is patched up and ready to take it's place among the Legion."Worldwide protests have been scheduled by 'Anonymous' to take place against the Church on February 10, 2008. There are expected to be at least 217 protests taking place on the 10th at Church headquarters around the globe.In a poll conducted by Wikinews on 816 internet news readers, 80% (660) said that The Internet will win the war against Scientology. 7% (63) said that the Church would win. 8% (66) said neither side will win and 3% (27) didn't care.The Lutheran Church of Sweden will perform gay wedding ceremonies if the government legalizes same-sex marriage, according to Claes-Bertil Ytterberg, Bishop for the Swedish Church Assembly that is the decision-making body for the Church of Sweden. Sweden recognized same-sex civil unions in 1995, but full marriage between persons of the same sex has remained illegal. Recently government-appointed committee has concluded civil-unions law outdated and recommended that the parliament would allow legal same-sex marriages. The church is going to support legalizing for same sex marriage and open its doors for gay and lesbian ceremonies. The church leaves it up to the individual priest whether to perform such a ceremony or not, according to the bishop. Even though homosexual couples would be wed in the same way as straight couples, the church would like the ceremony to be called something else because "the word wedding is so traditional and is reserved for men and women." The Church of Sweden already performs blessings for same-sex couples, as in 2005 when special church ceremonies to mark homosexual civil unions were allowed. There are still some rifts on the issue within the Church of Sweden, however they have become less visible, the bishop says. According to the statistics 7 million of Sweden's citizens belong to the Lutheran Church of Sweden, however fewer than 4% are reported to attend Sunday services.The Council of Europe is pressing member governments to provide information concerning CIA prisons operating secretly in Europe.In an interim report by the human rights council rapporteur, Swiss senator Dick Marty made public the 42-member nation's preliminary conclusions regarding CIA activity on European Union soil. Marty reported, "Individuals have been abducted, deprived of their liberty and transported to different destinations in Europe, to be handed over to countries in which they have suffered degrading treatment and torture." The report estimates the rendition of "more than a hundred persons." But when it comes right down to it, no irrefutable evidence exists to confirm allegations that the CIA operated secret detention centers in Europe. "There is a great deal of coherent, convergent evidence pointing to the existence of a system of 'relocation' or 'outsourcing of torture'," the report stated while further noting that, "It is highly unlikely that European governments, or at least their intelligence services, were unaware.""Our aim is to find out the truth that is being hidden from us today", he said. He adds that he is afraid of "the pressure put on the media in the United States not to report on this affair."A researcher for Human Rights Watch, John Swift, said; "Cooperation is going to be needed if this investigation is going to succeed. European governments are at a crossroads. They can decide to cooperate with this investigation and uphold European traditions of human rights, or they can continue their romance with the CIA. But they can't do both."The report has also been criticized for appearing to lack new content and to be incomplete. Former minister for Europe and British member of parliament Denis MacShane has said that Marty's report "has more holes than a Swiss cheese." US State Department spokesman Sean McCormack has rejected the report and stated that it was an example of the "same old reports wrapped up in some new rhetoric. There's nothing new here." US Department of Homeland Security secretary Michael Chertoff has stated regarding the US government that "the government acts in accordance with the law and with respect to the sovereignty of host countries in which it operates," and further stated that "The authorities are free to investigate what they want to investigate but we should not allow ourselves to be distracted from the need to identify, prevent and protect against terrorist acts of violence."The group Amnesty International USA is calling for the US Congress to create a commission to investigate detention and interrogation practices. The United States neither confirms nor denies the existence of secret detention centers.The United States Congress has launched its own inquiry into a decision by the U.S spy agency to destroy tapes of interrogations of terror suspects, with Central Intelligence Agency chief Michael Hayden testifying before lawmakers this week.The Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee,  Democrat Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia, says Hayden will appear before his panel."CIA director Michael Hayden is going appear before our committee on this coming Tuesday and talk about interrogation and techniques," said Rockefeller. During an appearance on the CBS television program Face the Nation, Rockefeller made clear members have a lot of questions about the destroyed videotapes."Were there things on those tapes that they did not want to have seen, that did not conform to what the attorney general would allow them to do?" he said.Rockefeller indicated the session will take place behind closed doors, to enable law makers to delve into areas that are still considered top secret, and have to do with specific interrogation procedures.The CIA director disclosed the destroyed videotapes last Thursday, after he got word that their existence had been uncovered by the news media.  The tapes which were made in 2002, showed the interrogation of top terror suspects. They were destroyed in 2005, and Congressional critics charge that could amount to tampering with legal evidence and obstruction of justice.Democrat Joe Biden of Delaware, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and former chair of the Judiciary panel, says the preliminary joint inquiry by the Justice Department and the CIA announced yesterday is not enough.Biden, who is running for the Democratic Party's presidential nomination, was interviewed on ABC's This Week."I think that Hayden is not to be the judge of whether or not his condoning the destroying of the tapes was lawful. It appears as though there may be an obstruction of justice charge here, tampering with evidence, destroying evidence,and I think this is one case where it really does call for a special counsel," said Biden.Hayden told CIA employees Thursday the tapes were destroyed out of fears that if they ever became public, the identities of the interrogators would be revealed and their lives would be in danger.President Bush gave the intelligence community the go-ahead to use enhanced interrogation techniques on terror suspects following the September 11th 2001, attacks on the United States.The Bush administration has refused to specify which methods are permitted, but critics charge some amount to torture, including a procedure known as waterboarding, which simulates drowning.Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona has called for the White House to publicly disavow the use of harsh interrogation techniques.He appeared on the Fox News Sunday television program."What this does in a larger sense is it harms the credibility and the moral standing of America in the world again," said McCain. "There will be skepticism and cynicism all over the world about how we treat prisoners and whether we practice torture or not."Senator McCain, a former Vietnam War era prisoner of war, has been one of the most outspoken members of Congress on the treatment of detainees in the war on terror. He is campaigning to become the Republican Party's presidential nominee.Raymond Davis, a contractor for the CIA, has been released from Pakistan after a ruling by a Pakistani court. He was detained after killing two citizens carrying weapons on January 27, 2011. Davis was freed after agreements to pay "blood money" as compensation for the two lives were handled. Blood money, defined as compensation paid by a murderer, is required under Islamic law.  CIA official  George Little said, "When issues arise, it's our standing practice to work through them. That's the sign of a healthy partnership—one that's vital to both countries." John Kerry, a Massachusetts senator, said, "This was a very important and necessary step for both of our countries to be able to maintain our relationship."After the ruling, a group of protestors demonstrated against the release in Lahore, Pakistan, and the United States government flew Davis out of the country. Asad Manzoor Butt, the attorney for the victims, said that the money was paid after hours of discussion with Americans.According to a US official, the Justice Department will investigate the incident. Anonymous sources said that Pakistan's government footed the bill, although the United States may be required to pay them back. He reportedly shot the two armed men as they attempted to steal from him in Lahore. Davis was accused of two accounts of murder and carrying unlawful weapons; the trial took place early Wednesday. The presence of international operatives in Pakistan has angered many citizens, resulting in protests around the country in the past weeks.United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said in Cairo, Egypt that the U.S. did not pay the compensation. After being asked by reporters who or what paid the families of the victims, she responded, "The families of the victims pardoned Mr. Davis and we're grateful for their decision."The director of the Central Intelligence Agency has confirmed that his agency used the extreme interrogation technique known as waterboarding on three terrorism suspects nearly five years ago. In testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee on Tuesday, Michael Hayden urged lawmakers not to place restrictions on the interrogation methods available to U.S. intelligence agencies.Director Hayden's testimony was the most detailed description to date of the CIA's use of "enhanced" interrogation techniques."In the life of the CIA detention program, we have held fewer than 100 people," he said. "Fewer than a third of those people have had any techniques, enhanced techniques, used against them in the CIA program."He confirmed that among those "enhanced" techniques used was waterboarding - which induces the feeling of imminent drowning, and which critics say amounts to torture."Waterboarding has been used on only three detainees," he said.He said those three detainees are Khalid Sheikh Mohammed - one of the architects of the September 11th attacks on New York and Washington, Abu Zubaydah - who is believed to have been a top al-Qaida strategist, and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri - who is believed to have played a key role in the bombing of the USS Cole. All three are being held at the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay.Hayden said waterboarding was used against the three detainees nearly five years ago because of circumstances at the time, including the belief that additional attacks against the United States were imminent.Hayden defended the CIA's use of extreme interrogation techniques as lawful, and urged lawmakers not to impose restrictions on such methods.Congress is considering legislation that would restrict the CIA to using only the interrogation techniques authorized by the U.S. Army's field manual, which does not include waterboarding.The CIA has been secretly authorized by a classified directive, signed by US President Bush, to send suspects overseas as part of a "rendition" process.The program has been used to manage the large case load which has accumulated since the September 11, 2001 attacks, leaving US officials free to concentrate on the "high value" suspects who are kept under US control at secret locations throughout the world.Today, US officials were reluctant to defend this policy for any specific cases, but White House spokesman Dan Bartlett presented a generic defense of US anti-terrorism policies on Sunday talk shows in the United States.A former government official claimed that the program was "fully authorized" and that the CIA was "not doing anything illegal" in an interview with The New York Times, and said that the leadership of the House and Senate intelligence committees was able to find out about the program, or had been informed of its existence.Allowing the CIA to have so much power in deciding who can stay in the country and who is shipped off to other countries is controversial, because in the past, the White House, State Department, or Justice Department would have been involved in approving individual cases of sending prisoners to other countries.While refusing to admit that the rendition policy even exists, the Bush administration claimed that they do not hand over people to be tortured in other countries, to get around US laws which prohibit such practices.However, the New York Times interviewed a number of current and former officials who believed that the policy was designed to allow the government to plausibly deny that torture was being tolerated.The case of Australian Mamdouh Habib attracted widespread attention in that country, after he was released in January after 40 months, without any charges being pressed. Australian officials were aware that he had been transferred by the United States to Egypt for six months. During this time, Habib claims he was subjected to various methods of torture, including electric shock and being held under water.The United States denies that Habib was tortured with their knowledge, although US officials were not present during his overseas captivity and could not guarantee that he had not been tortured. Egypt has not confirmed that Habib was ever in the country.A similar case involving Syrian born Canadian Maher Arar, deported to Syria in October, 2002, subsequently held and allegedly tortured for 374 days, led to Canada issuing a travel advisory strongly cautioning Canadians born in Iraq, Iran, Syria, Libya and Sudan against travel to the United States for any reason. A subsequent internal RCMP investigation found several instances of impropriety in the Arar case, including the provision of sensitive information on Arar to US officials, and that a liaison officer may have known of the deportation plan but did not contact his supervisors.Mr. Arar's attempt to sue American Attorney-General John Ashcroft over the incident in January 2004 was dismissed when the US government invoked the rarely used "state secrets privilege", claiming that to go forward in open court would jeopardize intelligence, foreign policy, and national security interests.Legal analysts point out that information obtained through the use of torture is useless in court proceedings, but US officials insist that the information obtained from such interrogations is still useful for their purposes, and that "it has resulted in the capture of terrorists."Pharmaceutical giant Eli Lilly and Company is currently engaged in a war of words with John Mack, editor of the monthly newsletter Pharma Marketing News. Mack and Eli Lilly are debating the origin of the Cialis Blog, a long-running Web site containing information about the popular anti-impotence medication Cialis.  The Web site features information about Cialis' clinical trials and commentary from Lilly ICOS executives.  Mack has suggested that Eli Lilly and Company sponsors the Cialis Blog.  However, Lilly ICOS has asserted that it has nothing to do with the Web site.  Mack disputed Eli Lilly's version of events calling the Cialis Blog "too far-fetched to be believed" and an example of Lilly's "incredible incompetence."  Another blog, Envisioning 2.0, notes that the "Cialis blog is not endorsed by the powers that be at Lilly ICOS, according to Lilly spokesperson Kindra Strupp."  Pharmaceutical Executive first mentioned the Cialis blog in an October 2004 article about pharmaceutical blogging.  The author of the story assigned responsibility for the blog to Lilly ICOS without attribution.  Other bloggers have posted comments on Envisioning 2.0 and Mack's Pharma Marketing Blog suggesting that the Cialis Web site may be unofficial.  They cite evidence from a WHOIS search indicating that Mircea Piturca of Romania apparently registered the blog. Mack and bloggers commenting on the debate have all urged Eli Lilly to take action against the site.  They all believe it is in the company’s best interest to have the site shuttered.Cindy Sheehan, an Iraq War protester, was arrested inside the Rayburn Building in Washington, D.C. in United States along with 45 to 50 other protesters for disorderly conduct on Monday."The Democrats will not hold this administration accountable, so we have to hold the Democrats accountable. And I for one am going to step up to the plate and run against Nancy Pelosi," said Sheehan during her protest inside the capitol.Sheehan and the other protesters were at the offices of Rep. John Conyers Jr. who is the House Judiciary Committee chairman, demanding that President George W. Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney be impeached. Conyers would be the politician who would start impeachment hearings.Sheehan then said she would run against Nancy Pelosi, who is the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in the next election for her seat in the House representing the state of California."If Nancy Pelosi doesn't do her constitutionally mandated job by midnight tonight, tomorrow I will announce that I'm going to run against her. Not only am I going to run against her, but I will beat her. Impeachment is not a fringe movement, it is mandated in our Constitution. Nancy Pelosi had no authority to take it off the table," added Sheehan.Pelosi's Press Secretary Brenden Daly says Pelosi is working hard to make sure that the right steps are taken in Iraq."The speaker is focused on changing course in Iraq by bringing our troops home safely and soon and refocusing our effort on protecting Americans from terrorism, holding the Bush administration accountable and setting a 'New Direction for America,'" said Daly.Sheehan became an anti-war protester after her son, Casey Sheehan, was killed while fighting in the Iraq War on April 4, 2004 at the age of 24. Earlier this year, on Memorial Day, she announced her resignation as "the 'face' of the American anti-war movement" on a personal web journal page published by the Daily Kos.A circus elephant managed to escape from her handler on Sunday night in the city of Zurich, Switzerland before being recaptured by local police and circus animal keepers. The 26-year-old female elephant, named Sabu, is from Switzerland's Zirkus Knie. She was able to make her escape just before being put into a trailer, while the keeper was not paying attention.Around 1930 local time (1730 UTC), Sabu was seen wading in Lake Zurich for a short time before walking back onto city streets. Zurich police said that Sabu wandered along the Bahnhofstrasse avenue of Zurich, which is known as the city's most exclusive shopping street. She also passed by Zürich Hauptbahnhof (the city's main rail station) and Paradeplatz, a square of Bahnhofstrasse, where both Credit Suisse Group AG and UBS AG have headquarters.For nearly an hour, police chased the elephant around the city before she was finally peacefully recaptured in the Talstrasse section of Zurich. Circus officials and police followed Sabu, but a circus spokesperson said that she did not respond to their calls. Sabu was also said to have been moving so fast that police had difficulty keeping up with her. At about 2000 local time (1900 UTC), a keeper was able to control the animal and load her onto a truck to take her to Winterthur, where the other circus animals were. There were no reports of any damage or injuries during the incident, and although police held back onlookers, at least one bystander managed to capture video of the event.The circus said that Sabu may have escaped after being frightened by storms near Zurich. After returning to the circus, she was said to be tired, but "pleased to be back."Two weeks after a 19th century stable and livery on Jersey Street partially collapsed and caused 15 homes to be evacuated in Buffalo, New York, residents still do not have answers from the city despite a court order to work with them and come to an agreement on a way to save some or all of the building, Wikinews has learned. Despite the frustration from residents, the city is planning on suing the building's owner. A rally was held at the stable's site where residents are hoping to bring more awareness to the situation and gain more support to save the building.On June 11, a significant portion of the stable's right side wall collapsed into the yard of a resident's home. Authorities, including the Buffalo Fire Department were called to the scene to evaluate the collapse and evacuate 15 homes of residents surrounding the stable as a precautionary measure. The following day, the city ordered an emergency demolition on the building, which was stopped by a restraining order residents with Save The Livery (www.savethelivery.com) won on June 14. Two weeks later, five homes are still evacuated and residents don't know when they will be able to return.On June 19, Judge Justice Christopher Burns of the New York State Supreme Court ordered a halt to the emergency demolition and ordered the city and residents to come to an agreement to save the building, or at least a significant portion of it. Despite a court date today, no agreement has yet been reached between the two parties."It is in the interest of the city to have a safe environment--but also important to maintain a sense of historical preservation," stated Burns in his June 19th ruling. The court ruled that a limited demolition could take place and that the city was only allowed to remove material in immediate danger to residents and pedestrians, but stated that the demolition could only be performed with "hand tools." The court also ordered that any rubble which had fallen into neighboring yards when the building collapsed, to be removed. Since then, most of not all the significantly damaged portions of the building or portions in immediate danger of falling have been demolished. The roof has also been removed to put less stress on the stable's walls."Its been over three years since we have been having problems with part of the livery falling down. There was an implosion two weeks ago and suddenly the city wanted to have an emergency demolition," said Catherine Herrick who lives on Summer Street immediately behind the stable and is the main plaintiff in the lawsuit against the city. Many homes on Summer are small cottages which were used as servants quarters when the stable was in operation, many of which were built in the 1820's. At least seven homes on Summer border the stable's back walls. Residents in those homes have significant gardens which have been planted against the building and growing for decades."Both parties are to continue to work together to see how we can meet everybody's needs. This is the third time we have been in that courtroom, and that is what we were basically told to do," added Herrick who said the rally was held today because this "is Buffalo's history. Buffalo is a wonderful place to live because of its history and this is a historical, beautiful building and we need to keep those beautiful buildings."Herrick states that the city is working with residents, but also believes that its "slow moving" and they are allowing the owner to get away with neglect on the property."I believe right now that they are letting the owner get off. The owner was negligent for 20 years, and hasn't done anything to it despite what he has claimed to say. Now that this is an emergency situation, the city has a lot to say about it," added Herrick.Currently the building is owned by Bob Freudenheim who has several building violations against him because its poor condition. He has received at least five violations in three months and residents who live near the building state that Freudenheim should be "100% responsible" for his actions. Freudenheim gave the city permission to demolish the building on June 12 during an emergency Preservation Board meeting, because he would not be "rehabilitating the building anytime soon." Freudenheim, along with his wife Nina, were part-owners of the Hotel Lenox at 140 North Street in Buffalo and were advocates to stop the Elmwood Village Hotel from being built on the Southeast corner of Forest and Elmwood Avenues. They also financially supported a lawsuit in an attempt to stop the hotel from being built. Though it is not known exactly how long Freudenheim has owned the stable, Wikinews has learned that he was the owner while fighting to stop the hotel from being built. Residents say that he has been the owner for at least 22 years. Attorneys for Freudenheim confirm that the city is starting proceedings against him for his violations beginning as early as Wednesday June 25. Freudenheim has not released a statement and could not be reached for comment.Many residents want the building preserved and Herrick states that their engineer can have it stable in "four days" as opposed to the 14-30 days it would take to demolish the building and "at a lesser cost than what it costs to demolish it."It will cost the city nearly US$300,000 to demolish the building which is paid for with tax money collected from residents in the city. The Buffalo News reports that fees are approaching $700,000. Though reports say there is a potential buyer of the stable, Wikinews cannot independently confirm those reports.Residents say the stable was designed by Richard A. Waite, a 19th century architect, and was first owned by a company called White Bros., used as a stable and housed at least 30 horses at any given time. It also stored "coaches, coupes, broughams, Victorias  and everything in the line of light livery," stated an article from the West Side Topics dated 1906. According to the article, The company first opened in 1881 on Thirteenth Street, now Normal Avenue, and later moved into the Jersey building in 1892. The Buffalo Fire Department believes the building was built around 1814, while the city property database states it was built in 1870. It is believed to be only one of three stables of this kind still standing in the country.At about 1950, the stable was converted into an automobile body shop and gasoline station.A property record search showed that in 1950 at least four fuel storage tanks were installed on the property. Two are listed as 550 square feet while the other two are 2,000 square feet. All of the tanks are designated as a TK4, which New York State says is used for "below ground horizontal bulk fuel storage." The cost of installing a tank of that nature according to the state, at that time, included the tank itself, "excavation and backfill," but did not include "the piping, ballast, or hold-down slab orring." It is not known if the tanks are still on the property, but residents are concerned the city was not taking the precautions to find out.Wikinews has called the city along with the Mayor's office several times, but both have yet to return our calls. There are conflicting reports as to the date of the next hearing. According to Herrick, the next hearing is July 1, 2008 though the Buffalo News states the next hearing is July 8. The News also states that Burns will make a final ruling on the stable at this time.The murder rate in Ciudad Juarez, Mexico has become the highest in the world. There were an average of seven killings every day for the past twelve months in the city, which is currently in the midst of a clash between two powerful drug cartels.The majority of the 1,986 murders this year remain unsolved, and most involve drug gang members who have come from elsewhere to fight for control of the drug smuggling route into neighbouring El Paso, Texas, as well as the lucrative local trade in drugs. There is a jump of 815 murders from last year.107 women, 85 children, and 49 police officers are among the dead and many people have met particularly violent ends.  One man was tethered between two trucks and ripped apart; others have been decapitated or dismembered.  The violence results from a turf war between rivals Juarez cartel and Sinaloa cartel, the latter being run by the most wanted man in the country, Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman.In late 2006 authorities launched a crackdown on Mexican drugs cartels, with Ciudad Juarez receiving 45,000 troops during that time. However, this has failed to prevent the gangs battling to control the cocaine-smuggling trade run from the city.Oliver Hill, an American Civil Rights lawyer died today at the age of 100. Hill was attending breakfast, when he died "peacefully," said a friend of Hill's family, Joseph Morrissey. The cause is not yet known."As a pioneer for civil rights, an accomplished attorney, and a war veteran, Mr. Hill's dedication to serving the commonwealth and the country never failed," said Virginia Governor, Tim Kaine in a statement released to the press.Hill won African American teachers the right to have equal pay in 1940, which was the first civil rights case he won in his career.He was also the first African American to be elected to the city council in Richmond, Virginia in 1948. Hill also filed several lawsuits against racial segregation in the U.S. public school systems in 1954. Those lawsuits later became as the 'Brown vs. Board' which overturned laws dating back to 1896 which ruled that separate schools for African Americans and White Americans were "unequal."Twenty two civilians, including three children, died, Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) reported, on Saturday after a United States airstrike hit a hospital in the city of Kunduz in northern Afghanistan. Amongst the fatalities were twelve charity staff working for MSF. MSF said there were about two hundred people in the building.A statement was issued on the MSF website criticising the attack and stating "Under the clear presumption that a war crime has been committed, MSF demands that a full and transparent investigation into the event be conducted by an independent international body." The US military released a statement saying they had struck "against individuals threatening the force" and "The strike may have resulted in collateral damage to a nearby medical facility." The US Government announced there would be three separate investigations, carried out by the Afghan forces, the US military, and NATO. The Afghan interior ministry claimed there had been a Taliban presence in the hospital although this was denied by the insurgent organization.The attack was also condemned by the International Committee of the Red Cross, whilst the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein, described the strike as "inexcusable" and called for a full investigation.On September 28, the Taliban launched an assault on Kunduz. The US has been carrying out air strikes to support Afghan government forces attempting to recover the city. MSF said it had often provided the Afghan and US governments with details of the location of the hospital, particularly on September 29. The Taliban had unsuccessfully tried to capture Kunduz in April this year, but they were pushed back by government forces.Almost exactly 21 years after 16-year-old Claire "Tilt" Tiltman was stabbed to death near her Kent, England home, Kent Police have passed a file of evidence to the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS). The case has been the subject of speculation sadistic killer Robert Napper was responsible, but the file is reported to concern longtime suspect Colin Ash-Smith. Wikinews contacted Kent Police and the CPS but neither were willing to confirm how many suspects were covered by the evidence file."We have presented a file of evidence to the CPS for their consideration in relation to the murder of Claire Tiltman," said Detective Superintendent Rob Vinson of the Kent Police cold case team in a statement provided to Wikinews. "Claire's murder has been subject to an ongoing investigation by Kent Police who have never given up on justice for Claire."The CPS gave Wikinews a statement confirming they are "currently considering a file of evidence submitted by Kent Police in relation to the murder". The statement added "We hope to reach a decision as soon as is practicably possible." Tiltman was stabbed in excess of 40 times in an alleyway in Greenhithe as she took a shortcut to visit a friend. The Dartford Grammar School pupil, who had celebrated her birthday four days before, aspired to be a firefighter and was a familiar face at her local fire station. Her death in 1993 sparked an investigation that amassed over 16,000 documents without success in spite of the fact she was killed between 6:00 and 6:30pm, as commuters returned from work.On Saturday the Justice for Claire campaign group marked the 21st anniversary of the murder. A band played in nearby Dartford and, including a raffle, the event raised over £3,000 for the group, which includes some of Tiltman's friends. Wikinews attempted to contact Justice for Claire but their website is unavailable and previous contact details are no longer valid. Last year they organised a candlelit memorial walk to mark the 20th anniversary.The victim's parents have both since died. Her mother died of cancer after care at EllenorLions Hospice, one of two beneficiaries of the money raised by Justice for Claire last week. The other was the Fire Fighters Charity. Founding member and friend of Tiltman's Lisa Gribben said "We want to hold onto the amazing memories we have but also create so many more so they can be remembered in a good way and not for what happened [...] The evening is to remember Tilt and her parents for both the amazing friend she was and the wonderful, loving family they all were. [...] Its saddens me that our memories are tarnished because of such evil. Hopefully now when someone reads about Tilt they can read about happier times too." Vinson told local journalists at the time that officers were "absolutely committed" to catching the killer and "actively investigating this case". "Claire was 16 years old at the time of her murder with her whole future ahead of her. That evening someone took that future away."Colin Ash-Smith is serving multiple life sentences for other attacks on women, including stabbing Charlotte Barnard, 22, in late 1995. The Barnard attack, for which he was convicted of attempted murder two years later, was yards from where Tiltman died. His other crimes include another attempted murder, kidnap, and attempted rape.His former home in Dartfield, where his parents live, has been searched at least three times by police. The most recent was in September, when forensic officers spent several hours at the building. His father Aubrey received a twelve-month prison term for perverting the course of justice; shortly afterwards his mother was arrested after admitting on TV she asked for a knife to be destroyed during the initial investigation into her son. Following the latest search of the property Kent Police said "Officers have obtained a large amount of items which will be examined in the coming weeks." The former milkman's father says he's convinced his son did not murder Claire Tiltman.Robert Napper, meanwhile, has been linked to the crime by criminologists and by former Metropolitan Police constable Vincent Wright. Wright went to an Inspector in 2000 to put forward his case that Napper killed Tiltman and also killed Rachel Nickell in London in 1992. In December 2008 Napper admitted manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility for killing Nickell six months before Tiltman's death. Like Tiltman, Nickell was stabbed more than 40 times.Wright began investigating after Napper was convicted in the deaths of mother-and-daughter Samantha and Jazmine Bisset, who were killed ten months after Tiltman's death. Samantha Bisset was stabbed 60 times. Wright discovered Napper was freshly released from an eight-week prison sentence for weapons offences when Tiltman died and was a known voyeur. In 1995 Napper admitted raping one teenager at knifepoint and attempting to rape another within eight days of each other in 1992. Wright produced a timeline for the inspector in 2000, and has been in touch with Kent Police as well. In 1998 Operation Enigma, a reexamination of cold murders, suggested the Tiltman and Nickell crimes could be down to the same offender."Napper could have been stopped," Wright said after Napper was finally convicted in the Nickell case. "It was down to poor investigatory procedure that he wasn't." The Metropolitan Police lured innocent suspect Colin Stagg into a honeytrap and he was charged with murdering Nickell but later cleared when the case collapsed in court.Professor David Wilson, a Birmingham City University criminologist, wrote in The Daily Star last March he believes Napper "was probably the murderer of 16-year-old Kent schoolgirl Claire Tiltman in January 1993, and of business executive Jean Bradley, 47, in west London two months later." That month he repeated his theory in his Channel 5 documentary series Killers Behind Bars. In addition to the "blitz" style of knife assault on Napper's victims, Wilson hypothesised Tiltman was linked to Napper by Napper's regular use of public transport. The Tiltman murder scene is twenty minutes by rail from Napper's former home and her killer is believed to have headed towards a nearby train station.Dr Laurence Allison, a professor of forensic psychology at Liverpool University, is co-author of a book titled Killer in the Shadows – The Monstrous Crimes of Robert Napper that looks at not just Napper's convictions but also cold cases he may be connected to. In addition to Tiltman and Bradley, Allison identified Napper as a suspect in the death of Penny Bell, stabbed 50 times in west London. All three victims were to the west of Napper's home area and all died within five minutes of train stations.Allison told Wikinews, "we now know Napper was not sufficiently [investigated over] Rachel Nickell after it was established that he murdered Samantha Bissett", noting "these sorts of murders are so rare that one needs to carefully consider an offender with track record as a plausible and worthy suspect". However, Allison made clear this does not mean Napper is the only viable suspect: "Napper needs to be looked at [but] I wouldn't be so bold as to favour one person over another either."Clarence Ray Allen, convicted of ordering a hit in 1980 that resulted in the deaths of the target and two bystanders, was executed just after his 76th birthday, making him the second-oldest man in U.S. history to be executed. He had been in prison for ordering the murder of his son's girlfriend when he ordered the hit that resulted in the death penalty conviction. However, appeals caused him to remain on death row for 23 years. His lawyers had attempted to make the case that it would be cruel and unusual to execute the man, attempting to save his life under the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution. However, the courts rejected the appeal, and the Supreme Court refused to hear the case, upholding the death penalty conviction.According to reports, at least 30 people have been killed in fighting between farmers and cattle herders in the central Nasarawa State of Nigeria.Member of parliament Mohammed Baba Ibaku said that the incident began on Friday, when armed herders raided the farm village of Udeni Gida. He commented that scores of homes were set on fire during the attack, and added that the herders were from the neighboring Kogi and Taraba states. The violence had occurred after a few weeks of tension between the two, mainly due to competition for land, which is becoming scarcer because of desertification.Some reporters in the village said that they had seen at least fifty bodies of people killed in the violence. The town has now been placed under police control.A clash similar to this one erupted two weeks ago, after herders led their cattle into rice fields. One farmer was killed during that incident.Nasarawa State police commissioner Shehu Babolola confirmed the farmers and herders clashed again on Friday, but declined to give casualty figures.Fighting broke out between rioters and civil defense groups in the central Bolivian city of Cochabamba on Thursday, January 11 leaving 2 dead and 240 injured.Coca farmers backing the government of president Evo Morales attacked government buildings and set fire to part of the local government offices in Cochabamba. The rioters were demanding the resignation of the state governor - a critic of president Morales who supported a move to give Bolivia's states greater autonomy.Opposition political parties have demanded an investigation into allegations that president Morales' ally, senator Leonilda Zurita, delivered supplies to the demonstrators who have laid siege to the local government building.According to witness and media reports, at least two hundred people in Nigeria have been killed after pastoralists and villagers clashed near the city of Jos, which has been the source of repeated tension between Christians and Muslims.Local authorities, however, contradicted witness reports, saying that there were eight casualties, as did Mark Lipdo, an aid worker for the Stefanus Foundation charity, who reported that at least a hundred people were dead.Witness reports state that pastoralists started firing into the air in the village of Dogo Nahawa, about five kilometres south of Jos, at night, and attacked those who emerged from their homes. "They came around three o'clock in the morning and they started shooting into the air. The shooting was just meant to bring people from their houses and then when people came out they started cutting them with machetes," commented Peter Jang, who lives in the village, as quoted by Al Jazeera.According to the Agence France-Presse news agency, some of the victims were children.Acting Nigerian president Goodluck Jonathan said he had placed national troops on "red alert" following the clashes. "The acting president has placed all the security forces in the plateau and neighbouring states on red alert so as to stem any cross-border dimensions to this latest conflict," read a statement released by his office. Armed forces are already present in Jos."The security services are on top of the situation," said Jonathan's spokesman Ima Niboro in an email statement to the Bloomberg news service.In January, at least 400 people were killed and a further four thousand injured in the city of Jos after tensions between Christians and Muslims.According to BBC News Online more than 300 people were detained and at least 10 hurt after a second night of riots in Estonia's capital, Tallinn. Clashes began last night after Estonian authorities removed a controversial Soviet monument, the Bronze Soldier of Tallinn, which Russian-speaking Estonians see as a symbol of the liberation of Eastern Europe from Nazism, while Estonian nationalists view it as a reminder of Soviet occupation.The largest class action in Victorian history was commenced at the Supreme Court of Victoria on Friday the 13th by Slidders Lawyers against electricity distribution company SP AusNet and the Brumby Government in relation to the Kilmore East fire that became part of the Kinglake complex. Because of the lawsuit, SP AusNet SPN.AX's shares on Monday have dropped more than 13.36 per cent or 14.5 cents, to an intra-day low of 94 cents, was at 98.5 cents at 10:38 a.m. local time, before recovering slightly to be 7.5 cents lower at A$1.01 by 1144 AEDT (0003 GMT) or 6.9 percent in Sydney trading. Shares in SP AusNet closed 3.7 percent lower at A$1.045 on Monday.Power supplier SP AusNet said it has asked the Victoria Court regarding the status of the class action proceedings saying the firm had insurance policies in place consistent with industry standards. "SP AusNet will continue to update the market as further information becomes available," the company said.The claim has focused on alleged negligence by SP AusNet in its management of electricity infrastructure. It maintains most of the power lines in eastern Victoria. Its fallen power line is believed to have sparked the blaze that tore through Kinglake, Steels Creek, Strathewen, Humevale, and St Andrews. The plaintiffs include thousands of angry Kinglake farmers, small business owners, tourist operators and residents who lost homes.Leo Keane, the lead plaintiff in the class action has alleged "SP AusNet owed a duty of care to landowners to operate and manage power lines in a way that limited the risk of damage from bushfires."On Thursday Phoenix Taskforce had taken away a section of power line as well as a power pole from near Kilmore East, part of a two-kilometre section of line in Kilmore East that fell during strong winds and record heat about 11am last Saturday. It was believed to have started the fire there, since within minutes a nearby pine forest was ablaze, and within six hours the bushfire had almost obliterated nearly every building in the towns in its path."It is believed that the claim will be made on the basis of negligent management of power lines and infrastructure," Slidders Lawyers partner Daniel Oldham said. The law firm has announced it was helping landowners and leaseholders get compensation for the 2003, 2006, 2007 and 2009 bushfires. "If you have been burnt by the recent bushfires, please register your interest using the form below as soon as possible," the law firm's website stated.The Insurance Council of Australia has placed the cost of the bushfires at about $500 million. "That means keeping electricity lines clear of trees and in a condition that won't cause fires. They must also have systems in place to identify and prevent risks occurring," Melbourne barrister Tim Tobin, QC, said. According to the 2006 census, Kinglake had a population of almost 1,500 people. But SP AusNet's legal liability has been limited at $100 million under an agreement inked by the former Kennett government with private utility operators, when the former State Electricity Commission was privatized in 1995. Accordingly, the Brumby Government could be legally obliged to pay damages of the differences amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars.SP AusNet Ltd said some of its electricity assets have been damaged by the Victoria bushfire. "As a preliminary estimate, it is thought that damage has been sustained to approximately one per cent of SP AusNet’s electricity distribution network, mainly distribution poles, associated conductors and pole top transformers," SP AusNet said in a statement to the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). It explained that up to 6,000 homes and businesses on its network were without power due to bushfires, including the Kinglake complex fire, Beechworth fire, and fires across Gippsland including Churchill and Bunyip.SP AusNet said the firm will cooperate fully and will assist in any fire probe. "We stand ready to assist the relevant authorities with their inquiries if it is necessary for us to do so now and in the coming months," SP Ausnet spokeswoman Louisa Graham said in a statement. "Our priority is to restore power to fire-affected areas as quickly as possible. We believe the claim is premature and inappropriate ... SP AusNet will vigorously defend the claim. If the claim is pursued, SP AusNet advises that it has liability insurance which provides cover for bushfire liability. The company's bushfire mitigation and vegetation management programmes comply with state regulations and were audited annually by state agencies," Grahams explained.Victorian Auditor-General Rob Hulls said "there was an 'unseemly rush' by some lawyers to sue before the cause of the fires had been fully investigated." "The government body had audited the network's bushfire risk to make sure required distances between power lines and vegetation were maintained. Power companies had been given a clean bill of health, and electricity firms were judged to be 'well prepared for the 2008-09 bushfire season.' There were no regulations applying to the distances between poles supporting electricity lines and spans of one kilometre were not unusual," a spokesman for Energy Safe Victoria explained.Christine Nixon, the 19th and current Chief Commissioner of Victoria Police said investigations into the cause of the bushfires were ongoing. "I know people are angry, and so are all of us in this community. But we need to kind of have a sense that the proper processes are in place and we need to go through the investigation and through the court case," Nixon said. "At this stage we are not able to confirm how it started. I understand there is some legal action that people are taking, but at this stage we're still investigating its cause. But the whole circumstances of that fire are part of our Taskforce Phoenix, and as we move through that we'll be able to tell the community more once we're able to confirm or deny what we think is the cause of these fires," Nixon added.On Thursday, two people were arrested in connection with the fires, having been observed by members of the public acting suspiciously in areas between Yea and Seymour; although they were both released without charges laid. Brendan Sokaluk, age 39, from Churchill in the Gippsland region, was arrested by police at 4pm on Thursday, in relation to the Churchill fires, and was questioned at the Morwell police station. He was charged on Friday with one count each of arson, intentionally lighting a bushfire and possession of child pornography. The arson case relates to 11 of the 21 deaths in the dire  Gippsland fire, which devastated 39,000 hectares in the Latrobe Valley, Calignee, Hazelwood Koornalla and Jeeralang. Two teams of Churchill firefighters were almost lost in the inferno that remains out of control.Mr Sokaluk joined the CFA Churchill brigade in the late 1980s as a volunteer fire fighter, left in the 1990s and attempted to rejoin twice, but was rejected. He failed to appear in Melbourne Magistrate's Court Monday for a scheduled hearing, since the court reset the committal hearing on May 25. He is represented by lawyer Julian McMahon.Magistrate John Klestadt has lifted the suppression order which kept the suspect's identity a secret but identifying photographs were barred from being released. Mr Sokaluk was remanded in protective custody from Morwell to a cell in Melbourne for his own safety amid fears angry prisoners will target him and real risk of vigilante attacks. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years imprisonment if convicted on the arson charge. "This is an extraordinary case. The level of emotion and anger and disgust that the alleged offenses have aroused in the community is unprecedented." Mr Sokaluk's defense lawyer Helen Spowart argued. The prosecution has moved the Court for more time to prepare its case, saying there would be up to 200 witnesses to interview. Slater & Gordon has indicated that they were awaiting the report of the to-be-established Royal Commission, expected in late 2010, before initiating any claims.Armed with a $40 million budget, the Royal Commission's Chair Justice Bernard Teague will be assisted by former Commonwealth ombudsman Ron McLeod, who led the inquiry into the 2003 Canberra bushfires, and State Services Authority Commissioner Susan Pascoe. The Commission has said its interim report is due on August 17 while the final report will be submitted by July 31, 2010.Judge Bernard Teague has announced Tuesday he will meet with fire victims and fire authorities within the next two weeks. "We want to do that as soon as possible - probably not next week but starting to have these discussions the week after," he said.Julia Eileen Gillard, the Deputy Prime Minister of Australia and deputy leader of the federal Australian Labor Party (ALP) said the federal and Victorian governments would respond quickly to the royal commission's report. "Everybody who has lived through this experience in Victoria and around the nation has asked the question: 'Why? What can we do better?'. No one wanted to see the report "as a book on a shelf gathering dust," she said.Victoria bushfire experts, led by Forest Fire Victoria - a group of scientists and forestry experts - have condemned the government's "Living with Fire" policy and the state's failure to initiate serious fuel-reduction programs. The Victoria government had failed to seriously act on bushfire safety recommendations submitted last June by the Victorian Parliamentary Environment and Natural Resources Committee.As death toll rises, evidence mounts of lack of planning prior to Australia’s worst bushfire. "Living with Fire" policy means Kinglake fire trucks were dispatched to an earlier fire in Kilmore, leaving Kinglake undefended. "Kinglake was left with no fire brigade and no police. The trucks had been sent to Kilmore. I've been in the fire brigade for 10 years. There was always a law—the trucks had to be on the hill. Because of the government we got gutted at Kinglake. They should have been getting generators ahead of the fire—so people would have had a chance of fighting it. As soon as the power went, I couldn't keep fighting the fire at my place," Rick and Lauren Watts, and their friend Neil Rao, spoke to the WSWS.Rick has also criticized the lack of early warning communications systems, since emergency siren warnings in the town had been stopped some years earlier. Humevale resident Sina Imbriano who has six children was angry about the failure of  state and federal governments to set up a recommended telephone warning system amid its "stay and defend or go" policy. Bald Spur Road residents Greg Jackson and his wife Fotini said the government's "stay and defend or go" policy was "fruitless" since the critical issue was early warnings,  but "they [the government] just won't spend the money." Also on Friday, five law firms from Victoria's Western Districts, including Warrnambool-based Maddens Lawyers and Brown & Proudfoot, held a meeting to discuss a potential class action in relation to the Horsham fire, which was also thought to have been started by fallen power pole that burnt vast swathes of land in Mudgegonga and Dederang, Victoria. The lawsuit will also focus on the fire that blackened about 1750 hectares at Coleraine.Maddens senior attorney Brendan Pendergast said: "We don't know who the defendant is at this stage. We are unsure who the electrical supplier is for that area but we should know in a few days. There were people who had their homes burnt to the ground and they will need to reconstruct, replace their contents," he said. Maddens has initiated a register of affected landowners for the recent bushfires, saying the firm has included victims of the Pomborneit fire that burnt almost 1300 hectares in the proposed class action amid the CFA's statement the blaze could have been deliberately lit. Frances Esther "Fran" Bailey, Liberal member of the Australian House of Representatives (1990-93 and 1996-present), representing the electorate of McEwen in Victoria said the Country Fire Authority (CFA) had told her one of the power lines had broken before the fire. "The local CFA [Country Fire Authority] told me on that Saturday, with those very high winds, one of the lines had broken and was whipping against the ground and sparked," she said. "Whether or not that is the cause of that terrible fire that actually took out Kinglake and maybe Marysville, the investigations will prove that, but we've got to do better," she added.Victorian Premier John Brumby said the power line claim would be examined as part of the Royal Commission into the bushfire. "No stone will be left unturned. So, I think it's important the Royal Commission does its work. And, the Royal Commission will, of course, look at all of the factors with the fires," Mr Brumby said. At least 550 houses were incinerated and 100 people have been killed, leaving more than 1,000 homeless in the Kinglake bushfire and surrounding areas.SP AusNet - Singapore Power International Pte Ltd is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Singapore Power Limited (51% interest in SP AusNet). SP AusNet's electricity transmission and distribution networks, along with the gas distribution assets, enable it to deliver a full range of energy-related products and services to industrial and domestic customers in Victoria, Australia.Singapore Power ( 新加坡能源有限公司) is a company which provides electricity and gas transmission, distribution services, and market support services to more than a million customers in Singapore. As the only electricity company in Singapore, and also one of its largest corporation, SP was incorporated as a commercial entity in October 1995 to take over the electricity and gas businesses of the state provider, the Public Utilities Board. Since 1995, Temasek Holdings controls the entire company with a 100% stake. SP is involved in a major investment in Australia's Alinta in partnership with Babcock & Brown, after putting up a bid of A$13.9 billion (S$17 billion), beating out a rival bid by Macquarie Bank.The devastating 2009 Victorian Black Saturday bushfires, a series of more than 400 bushfires across Victoria on February 7 2009, is Australia's worst-ever bushfire disaster, claiming at least 200 deaths, including many young children, and is expected to pass 300. 100 victims have been admitted to hospitals across Victoria with burns, at least 20 in a critical condition, and 9 on life support or in intensive care. The fires have destroyed at least 1,834 homes and damaged many thousands more. Many towns north-east of Melbourne have been badly damaged or almost completely destroyed, including Kinglake, Marysville, Narbethong, Strathewen and Flowerdale. Over 500 people suffered fire-related injuries and more than 7,000 are homeless. It has scorched more than 1,500 square miles (3,900 square kilometers) of farms, forests and towns.The Supreme Court of Victoria is the superior court for the State of Victoria, Australia. Founded in 1852, it is a superior court of common law and equity, with unlimited jurisdiction within the state. Those courts lying below it include the County Court of Victoria, the Magistrates' Court of Victoria and the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (which is technically not a court, but serves a judicial function). Above it lies the High Court of Australia. This places it around the middle of the Australian court hierarchy.The investigation over whether the allegations that resulted in ex-sports presenter for 3 News, Clint Brown, being hospitalised has been completed but police are still tight-lipped over the result and if he will be charged.Clint Brown was assaulted on September 13, 2006, and was put in hospital due to a concussion and a broken eye socket, for allegedly abusing a taxi driver while he was drunk in Taupo. Many witnesses say that Mr Brown was hit because he was swearing and verbally abusing the taxi driver from the Top Cab company. However other witnesses say that Brown was injured because he was hit by the partner of another woman he insulted, not because he was verbally abusing the taxi driver.Inspector Kevin Taylor, Taupo area commander, said the police had completed their investigation yesterday and wouldn't comment on whether he would be charged. "No progress will be made until at least next week."The police reviewed closed-circuit video, interviewed several witnesses to find out what happened in Taupo that night.Mr Brown had been suspended from work after the allegations came to light. On October 13 Mr Brown resigned from TV3 due to stressful conditions.The reason that Mr Brown had been in Taupo that night was because he was at a promotional dinner for the New Zealand A1 team. It has been said that he was drunk.TV3's own investigation into the allegations did not clarify anything.Clint Brown, a sports presenter for 3 News, has given a reportedly "unsatisfactory" letter of apology after he abused a taxi driver in Taupo while drunk. The taxi driver, Mere Wall, was verbally abused by Brown on September 13 where he, allegedly, called Wall a "Tuwharetoa whore and bitch," and a "Tainui whore and bitch." Brown was then punched by the partner of a woman he had insulted.Brown was admitted to hospital due to a broken eye socket and concussion.Wall had asked for an apology after the incident.  Brown sent an unsigned letter of apology to Wall, which Wall said she received last week. Wall said she was unhappy with the letter, and has written to TV3 to complain.Wall said that the letter was two paragraphs long, and stated that Brown cannot remember the incident due to concussion, but if he did do something wrong then he is sorry. The letter contained no return address.  Wall hopes to get a better apology, saying "I have written to TV3 [about the letter]."Wall admits to making some comments about Brown after the incident, Wall said: "But it has gone on and on."Brown was stood down after the incident by TV3.  Roger Beaumont, a spokesman for TV3, said that he is still not back at work and it is unsure when, or if, he will return. "The investigation is still continuing. TV3 and police were investigating the incident but it is not known how long the investigation would take."The New Zealand Police is yet to charge Brown.TV3 was also conducting their own investigation, which included hiring a private investigator. They are not ruling out any disciplinary action if the allegations are proved to be correct.File:Coca.jpgAccording to a U.S. State Department report, coca growth is on the rise in Bolivia and Peru, and is a cause for concern. In a statement, the Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs said, "We are concerned about the inability thus far of Bolivia's new president to articulate whether or not he will allow coca eradication and U.S. counter-narcotics assistance to continue."Evo Morales was elected President in December, 2005. At the time of his electoral victory, Morales claimed that he would support coca growth, but not for use in producing cocaine.This puts Bolivia and Peru at risk of losing financial aid if they fail to meet international narcotics agreements, according to the U.S. State Department report.  The report is part of the framework on which the U.S. establishes its list of major drug-trafficking and drug-producing countries.Three people have been charged in the United States for trying to sell Coca-Cola trade secrets to PepsiCo. The main suspect, administration worker Joya Williams, tried to sell documents and a liquid sample of a new Coca-Cola product to the rival, prosecutors said.When being offered to buy the trade secrets in May, PepsiCo immediately contacted the FBI. A person calling himself "Dirk" wanted to meet a PepsiCo representative at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport in Atlanta in June. Instead, an undercover FBI agent met with Ibrahim Dimson, the man posing as "Dirk".During the meeting it is said the undercover agent gave Dimson $30,000 for the trade secrets and promised to pay an additional $45,000 later. Then later that month, another agent later offered to buy the remaining trade secrets for $1.5m. The same day the suspects were arrested.A third person, Edmund Duhaney, was also arrested.PepsiCo said in a statement that "competition can sometimes be fierce, but also must be fair and legal".Coca-Cola said that it would review its security measures. The corporation's top-secret formula of its main drink was not affected in this security breach.On Thursday, NASA officials confirmed that a small plastic bag of cocaine was found two days before in a secure space shuttle processing facility within the Kennedy Space Center located in Merritt Island, Florida. An employee found the bag in Orbiter Processing Facility #3, where the Discovery is being prepared for a March launch to deliver supplies to the International Space Station. The man immediately notified security, and local police were soon called to the scene. From there, the bag's contents were tested, and the results came back positive for cocaine.The center's director, Robert Cabana, assured the press that neither the Discovery nor the hangar in which it is being housed was compromised by the presence of the illegal drug. He went on to affirm that neither he nor his agency condone the use of any controlled substance by any employee while they are on the job, and that whoever is responsible will be fired and then prosecuted for the offenses. Furthermore, Cabana stated that besides probing the criminal nature of what occurred, NASA will also conduct a full review of recent work performed on the Discovery as to make sure that there were not any other potential problems with the shuttle that investigators may have missed the first time.Although a drug test was performed on each of the facility's over two-hundred workers before they left Wednesday, "There was nothing obvious," said the center's public relations spokesman, Allard Beutel. He goes on to say, "Nobody was obviously under the influence when they were working, because we have supervisors there, security in there. It wasn't obvious somebody was under the influence of this substance, or any other, for that matter." Senator Bill Nelson, a former astronaut himself, says he is confident that the guilty party will be found, brought to justice, and then sent "out the door."Beutel concluded his statement by reaffirming NASA's "zero-tolerance" policy for controlled substances, "People know how serious this is, and how serious[sic] people take it," Beutel said. "And it's not acceptable. That's the bottom line."The Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) announced Tuesday that they had seized approximately 160 kilograms of cocaine discovered in buckets of frozen mango puree imported from Mexico.Investigations led the police to a shipping container destined for the Port of Montréal, in the Canadian province of Québec. A CBSA officer at the Container Examination Centre in Montréal identified the suspect container. The drug was found in brick-shaped plastic wrapping of about 4 kilograms in weight each. There were 1,200 buckets of frozen mango puree in the shipment, not all with cocaine inside.RCMP Sgt. André Potvin told reporters that the value of the shipment was significant and was the largest maritime port drug haul in the force's history. At CA$20 per half-gram, "that's in the vicinity of $38 million," said Potvin.The investigation by the RCMP Drug Section, CBSA Intelligence officers, the Marine Security Enforcement Team and the Port of Montréal Security Group, determined that an import company, named Quality Mexport, was allegedly a front for the drug-smuggling operation.Five Mexicans, holding visitor status in Canada, were arrested in the matter. They are:Juan Manuel Huerta Canela, 31;Jose Gerardo Bernal Vasquez, 52;Jose Luis Navarro Ochoa, 33;Jesus Manuel Villa Quiroz, 32; andAlfonso Strag Estrada, age 50.The suspects have been charged with importing and possession of drugs for the purpose of trafficking. The charges are allegations at this point in time.Honduras —Cocaine smugglers were themselves robbed of an estimated 1,000 kilos of cocaine yesterday by local criminals while trying to flee Honduran authorities in the remote La Mosquita region of the country. The smugglers were taking the drug by speed boat from Colombia to the United States when they were spotted and pursued by members of the Honduran navy. In order to escape their pursuers, the bandits landed on the beach at Yahurabila and tried to make their way inland. Within minutes, they were held up by a group of local delinquents, who relieved the smugglers of their merchandise. Both the smugglers and the local criminals are still being sought by the Honduran authorities.West Australian Police have begun a review of cold cases in their state following Bradley John Murdoch's conviction for the murder of British backpacker Peter Falconio.Police believe that Murdoch from Broome, in northern Western Australia, could be responsible for the Claremont serial killings in Perth during 1996 and 1997. Police have also indicated that they will be exploring the possibility that Murdoch had been responsible for the disappearance of Hayley Dodd, 17 from Badgingarra and the disappearance of a woman from Broome in 1996.Police will examine the details of the Falconio trial to construct a timeline of Murdoch's whereabouts. Police Sargeant Graham Clifford said "Murdoch's methodology and criminal profile were being scrutinised".On Thursday, Colombia ended Hugo Chávez, the President of Venezuela, efforts in negotiating hostage releases with Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). Álvaro Uribe, the President of Colombia, said that Chávez broke a November 10 agreement not to speak directly to Colombian military commanders.File:Melanie Betancourt 2007 x.JPGFARC, reportedly, hold hundreds of hostages in the jungles of Colombia. Their aim in the mediation was to trade some 50 hostages for 500 of their own, held in prisons of Colombia. FARC is offering high-profile hostages such as former Senator Íngrid Betancourt and three Americans as leverage."The president of the republic considers as terminated the facilitation of the Senator Piedad Cordoba and the mediation of President Hugo Chávez and thanks them for their assistance," Uribe said in a statement. "Today Senator Piedad Cordoba telephoned the army commander, General Mario Montoya, asking for a meeting and then passed the telephone to President Chávez, who asked questions about the hostages held by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia," the statement continued.Later, the Colombian government said it will only let Chávez meet with FARC again, if FARC releases some hostages and pledges to release the rest.Íngrid Betancourt was kidnapped on February 23, 2002, while she was campaigning for the presidency of Colombia. She also holds French citizenship. When Chávez met Nicolas Sarkozy, the President of France on November 20, he was unable to provide proof that Betancourt was alive, but said that he had been told she was alive as recently as November 18.On Thursday, Sarkozy urged Uribe to reconsider. "We continue to think that President Chávez is the best chance for freeing Íngrid Betancourt and all the other hostages," said Sarkozy spokesperson David Martinon.The communist FARC  guerrilla  named Omaira Rojas, or  Nayibe Rojas Cabrera, or Nayibe Rojas Valderrama, or Sonia  was extradited to the United States. The Colombian President Alvaro Uribe Velez authorized  the extradition requested by a tribunal court in Washington.The guerrilla was given to DEA officers Wednesday, March 9,  at 3:25 p.m. in the airport of Barranquilla, Colombia.Colombian and American authorities say that Sonia directly negotiates the delivery of narcotics to drug dealers from Peru and Brazil.Sonia's lawyers said she could not be extradited to the United States since her real name was not determinated. They demanded a revision to the process. The government of Colombia didn't accept the arguments and Uribe signed the authorization for the extradition.Colombia — The Colombian Caracol Radio reported on January 31, 2005 that the government of Colombia released a detailed document which describes how the FARC operates in Colombia and around the world.[1] The report was prepared by the Unidad Administrativa Especial de Información y Análisis Financiero del Ministerio de Hacienda(Special Administrative Unit of the Information and Financial Analysis of the Ministry of the Finance) and describes how the FARC operates and manage their finances. The study was delivered to the Colombian government at the end of the last year.The boss of a crime gang identified as the Popular Anticommunist (alternatively, Anti-terrorist) Revolutionary Army (PARA) has surrendered to authorities in Colombia. Jose Lopez Montero, also called "Caracho", handed himself in yesterday. More than 280 other members of the group also gave themselves up to police yesterday and on Thursday. Why the group members gave themselves up en masse is currently uncertain. Caracho recently told Colombian media he had "tired of war". All of the group members surrendered in Villavicencio, a city located south-east of the capital Bogotá.Judges have yet to decide upon the legal status of the gang members. The ring members will remain in Villavicencio until they do. The Office of the Attorney General of Colombia has clarified that it did not negotiate with the group members at the time of their surrender. This is understood to be one of the largest mass suspect surrenders in the country for a number of years.Caracho is accused of conspiracy, while PARA's members are also accused of a variety of crimes, including murder and illegal drug trade. Prosecutor Nestor Armando Novoa has stated that Caracho may also face further criminal charges due to his leadership in PARA. It is anticipated the members of the gang will say where their weapons are cached.According to Associated Press, the political stance of the Popular Anticommunist Revolutionary Army is uncertain. Caracho had been the leader of PARA since the death of Pedro Guerrero, also called "Cuchillo" ("Knife"), who was killed in December of last year by falling in a river while trying to escape from police."I am really repentant of my actions. I hope my sentence will bring some measure of peace to the victims and their families," he said. Montoya had been charged with heading the Norte Valle cartel, which rose to become Colombia's most powerful cocaine cartel after the demise of the Medellin and Cali cartels in the mid-1990s.It is not yet known where Montaya will serve his sentence. However, William Clay, Montaya's attorney, requested that the location be near Miami.Federal officials said that the cartel supplied 60% of all Colombian cocaine transported to the US at its peak. Montoya, also known as Don Diego, was arrested in 2007 and extradited to the US last year. He was once on the FBI's top-ten most-wanted list, alongside al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. Last April, a US district judge in Florida sentenced Montoya's younger brother, Eugenio, to thirty years in prison on charges including conspiracy to import cocaine and obstruction of justice. The US government said that the Norte Valle cartel used "violence and murder" to prevent people from passing information to law enforcement officials and to "instill fear."The Obama Administration has denied Colombian journalist Hollman Morris entry into the United States, citing violation of the "terrorist activities" section of the USA's Patriot Act. Morris was attempting to obtain a visa to attend Harvard University's Nieman Program, which is a fellowship for journalists. The journalist has called attention to ties between outgoing Colombian president Alvaro Uribe, and right-wing militia groups in the war-plagued South American country.  Human rights activists have speculated that Uribe might have influenced the visa denial.  Morris' phone has also been tapped by the DAS, the Colombian state security agency, which is Colombia's CIA counterpart.Though the exact reason for Morris' visa denial is unclear, when Morris went on-site to cover the release of four Colombian security force members' release by FARC rebels, Uribe called the journalist "an accomplice of terrorism".After the news broke that Morris had been denied entry into the US, Robert Giles, curator of the Nieman Foundation and former Gannett newspaper editor, commented that "[w]e were very surprised. This has never happened before." Also in an interview Friday, Morris said "[i]f you have proof that I am a guerrilla, then why not put me in jail? Why just this campaign to discredit?"Colombian authorities rescued a 2-month-old baby, who was kidnapped by a woman on Monday in Bogotá, in Armenia on Thursday night, September 14. The baby girl, Maribel Muñoz, was taken by a woman who told her parents, Zenaida Muñoz and  Henry López Romero that she belonged to an NGO and could get medical care for the girl inside Hotel Tequendama. The parents, who are displaced people, went to Caracol TV network in order to report the kidnapping. Surveillance recordings from the hotel and the city's bus terminal helped with the search. The woman, described as in her late twenties, of height 1.65 m, and having black hair and almond-shaped eyes, left the hotel with two men and went to the local bus terminal. On Thursday, a taxi driver told the media that the day before, he had driven a woman with those features to Cedritos, a neighbourhood in northeast Bogotá. Finally, on Thursday night, the kidnapper, Esmeralda Echeverri Castaño, was taken into custody in Cali. She confessed that she had abandoned the baby in a hotel in Armenia, where Maribel was finally found and moved to a hospital. The doctors found the baby to be in good health.Maribel's parents, who live in a modest house in Usme, south Bogotá, recognized the baby on Friday early morning, thanks to a digital picture sent from Armenia to the police in Bogotá. The child was returned to her parents at 11:30 a.m. (16:30 UTC) on Friday.Nelly Avila Moreno, a high-ranking member of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (aka FARC) known by the alias 'Karina', surrendered to Colombian police on the weekend, bringing the number of FARC commanders who have surrendered, been captured or been killed in the past year to six.Moreno, along with her partner and daughter, surrendered to undercover Colombian police officers after two weeks of private negotiation. It is not known whether the charges laid against her - including murder, drug trafficking, terrorism and kidnapping - are to be dropped in exchange for her surrender.At a press conference, Moreno outlined her reasons for surrender, including increased pressure from the Colombian army, and fear that her own troops may have decided to kill her in exchange for a US$900,000 reward. A member of the FARC secretariat, known by the alias Ivan Rios, was shot by his bodyguard who later attempted to claim a US$2.5 million bounty.The surrender is a political coup for President Alvaro Uribe, who has run a campaign of "carrot and stick" measures to eliminate FARC that have seen over 1,000 guerillas turn themselves in to join a government-sponsored reintegration program. Moreno refuted claims that she had been involved in the murder of Uribe's father in 1983.Milton Fabian Sanchez was killed on Wednesday evening in his house in Yumbo municipality in Valle del Cauca, Colombia, when gunmen entered the home and shot him dead.Sanchez, 30,  worked for a local radio and television station. Police could not immediately provide a motive for his killing.Jose Leon, chief of the local police said that the investigation is following three leads: "incidents relating to his journalism, the second those relating to his family, and finally what he was doing at the time of the murder,".Some press organizations have ranked Colombia among the most dangerous for journalists to work in.According to the El Tiempo newspaper, Colombian drug lords and rebels maintain at least 42 aircraft. The fleet includes five light Cessna planes, four reconnaissance helicopters and a helicopter set up as an air ambulance. They are also used to transport people and drugs.The country's biggest guerrilla group, the left-wing FARC, operates between 15 and 20 aircraft, most acquired in the early 90's from defunct drug cartels.Right-wing fighters operating in eastern and south-eastern Colombia run seven aircraft, while drug traffickers in the southeastern Valle province have between 15 and 20 aircraft.According to a captured terrorist, the head of fighters in Meta, in central Colombia, has a Bell helicopter and a Cessna airplane for his personal use. Additionally, a drug lord in Valle province owns a private plane large enough for 14 passengers.After 6 policemen who supervised the manual eradication of coca plants were killed in the Serrania de la Macarena National Park, 270 km south of Bogotá, President Alvaro Uribe announced this Thursday from Washington that he authorized the Colombia]n Air Force to bombard the area, where, according to the authorities, they found eight sites with tents and equipment belonging to the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia  (FARC), allegedly responsible for the death of the police officials.“We are going to define the way to evacuate the area of Macarena to bomb it before the coca eradicators enter again” said the president. “This is a difficult confrontation, which represents an important effort to defeat terrorism once and for all”, stated the Minister of defense Camilo Ospina.Even though the bombing started this Thursday, the authorities confirmed that the manual eradication in the Macarena area will continue. Some coca eradicators, most of whom are peasants, decided to give up the job due to the difficult security conditions. However, General Jorge Daniel Castro, director of the National Police, stated that since January 20th when the operation started more than 140 ha of coca crops have been eradicated.The announcement made by Uribe has outraged environment activists who warn about the ecological damages that the military actions may cause in the area which was declared national park in 1971. The Macarena area has been saved from fumigations.British comedian and TV presenter Jim Davidson was arrested yesterday as part of Operation Yewtree, the sex abuse investigation started following accusations against deceased entertainer Jimmy Savile. Police said the arrest of Davidson was not directly connected to the accusations against Savile.Davidson has been released on bail until March. Henri Brandman, Davidson's solicitor, said the complaints against Davidson stem from two women who were adults when the abuse was alleged to have occurred.Brandman said: "The complainants were then in their mid-20s. Jim vigorously denies the allegations. He answered police questions as fully as he was able after this passage of time. He has not been charged with any offence. Neither he nor I will be making any further comment."As a result of the arrest, Davidson has pulled out of appearing in Celebrity Big Brother. The host of the show, Brian Dowling, stated before the arrest that if Davidson were to appear on the show, he would treat him with "the same respect as I'd give any of the housemates" despite Davidson previously calling the openly gay Dowling a "shirt lifter" and a "fucking disgrace" on an episode of Hell's Kitchen.The New Zealand Commerce Commission has fined the Bank of New Zealand (BNZ). It has been forced to pay NZ$5 million in compensation to its customers, $500,000 in fines and $80,000 in costs to the Commerce Commission. The money will be placed into a bank account to be monitored by an auditor, and if there is any money left over it will be donated to a consumer organization.BNZ has been forced to pay these fines for failing to disclose that they were charging their customers for the exchange of foreign currency during February, 2002 until May, 2004 on its credit and debit cards, which is a breach of the Fair Trading Act. They pleaded guilty to 21 counts of breaching the act. The BNZ say that they will contact their affected customers and that they should get their compensation by November this year. The bank is responsible for contacting all their customers.The BNZ is the third bank to be charged, the two others were ANZ and the National Bank, which were charged $11.325 million combined as they had since become a single company. There are still other ongoing prosecutions on these other financial services: Westpac, ASB, TSB, American Express, Diners Club and The Warehouse Financial Services. The Commission would not comment on these cases.Paula Rebsotck, Commerce Commission Chairperson, said "the result was a victory for New Zealand consumers, many of whom would have unknowingly paid the currency transaction charges. While fees like these remain hidden, banks have no incentive to offer lower fees."Ian Narev, the CEO of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, this morning "unreservedly" apologised to clients who lost money in a scandal involving the bank's financial planning services arm.Last week, a Senate enquiry found financial advisers from the Commonwealth Bank had made high-risk investments of clients' money without the clients' permission, resulting in hundreds of millions of dollars lost. The Senate enquiry called for a Royal Commission into the bank, and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC).Mr Narev stated the bank's performance in providing financial advice was "unacceptable", and the bank was launching a scheme to compensate clients who lost money due to the planners' actions.In a statement Mr Narev said, "Poor advice provided by some of our advisers between 2003 and 2012 caused financial loss and distress and I am truly sorry for that. [...] There have been changes in management, structure and culture. We have also invested in new systems, implemented new processes, enhanced adviser supervision and improved training."An investigation by Fairfax Media instigated the Senate inquiry into the Commonwealth Bank's financial planning division and ASIC.Whistleblower Jeff Morris, who reported the misconduct of the bank to ASIC six years ago, said in an article for The Sydney Morning Herald that neither the bank nor ASIC should be in control of the compensation program.A community forum was held Monday in Mesa, Arizona, to discuss a recent attack on two Mormon teenagers which took place May 2 at a park in Gilbert. Local representatives from the NAACP and the Phoenix Anti-Defamation League attended the meeting, where local police met with area residents and concerned citizens to discuss the incident. Approximately 60 residents of Mesa attended the forum, which was hosted by the Mesa Police Department and held at the Mesa Public Safety Training Facility. Local police investigated the attack, and arrested two teenagers. According to the police the two suspects ages 15 and 16 have carved swastikas into their skin on the inside of their wrists, and allegedly beat the Mormon teenagers and attacked them using pellet guns. According to a police report, one of the teens sustained golf-ball-size swelling and cuts to his face. One of the victims of the attack was transported to the hospital. Police said that the suspects made anti-Mormon statements during the attack.Terrea Arnwine, vice president of the East Valley NAACP, discussed the history of hate crimes and related the origins of his organization. "I immediately spoke up when I heard about the incident with LDS," said Mesa police Chief George Gascón. LDS refers to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, also called the Mormon Church or LDS Church."This is America; this isn’t supposed to happen here. This is the legacy we have been left with — unfortunately it is oftentimes not true," said Anti-Defamation League representative Bill Strauss. According to the Arizona Department of Public Safety, 254 incidents were reported in 2003 involving hate crimes, though Strauss said that the actual number of incidents could be higher due to underreporting. The Gilbert Human Relations Commission also discussed the incident in a meeting Wednesday. "It's an abysmal, and abominable occurrence, and yet it's extremely rare, and I think that speaks volumes of our community," said Patricia Krueger of the Human Relations Commission.Detective Terry Burchett of the Gilbert Police Department conducted interviews with 20 to 30 individuals as part of the investigation into the attack. According to police, a conflict arose between two groups of teenagers at a park in Gilbert, and some teenagers were asked by others if any in their group were Mormon. The victims later told police that they were attacked because they are Mormon. According to The Arizona Republic, police are not yet certain that the attack should be considered a hate crime. Both teenagers have been charged with underage drinking, disorderly conduct and aggravated assault, and were booked into the Maricopa County Juvenile Detention Facility. According to KNXV-TV one of the suspects is a football player at Mesquite High School in Gilbert.The parents of the victims spoke with KNXV-TV reporter Christina Boomer. The victims are ages 15 and 17. The parents of one of the victims said that their son's face was pushed into the gravel and that he sustained a fractured collarbone, and the father of the other victim said his son has a broken nose and fractured cheekbone from the attack, in addition to facial lacerations. One of the teens' mothers stated: "I broke down, I just, I couldn't believe the way he looked." "No parents should see their kids in that kind of situation ... I don't believe that anybody should be persecuted for their beliefs or their faith," said the father of the same teenager.Community members held a public bake sale fundraiser on Sunday to help the family of a Texas woman slain earlier this month. Alicia Benefield, 19, of DeBerry was killed allegedly by her boyfriend, Rodris Webster. Sharon Jernigan of Panola was the key organizer of the fundraiser.On Friday, Mrs. Jernigan told Wikinews, "This murder has devastated the entire community." The fundraiser was held at a small grocery store in the neighboring town of Bethany, which borders the Louisiana–Texas state line. Sunday evening, Jernigan reported, "The bake sale was a big success."Webster, 25, was arrested early last week and charged with one count of murder and one count of felon in possession of a firearm. Benefield's body was found in Marshall, Texas. Upon hearing of the discovery, a family member of the victim posted to his Facebook page, "Struggling to know how someone could do such a horrific thing." Webster is presently being held on US$1 million bond in the Harrison County jail. Earlier, he was questioned by police on March 16, just two days after Benefield's car was found at a church near her home, but was released after five hours of questioning.The Community of Christ is suing the South Restoration Branch in Raytown, Missouri over their use of the name "Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints" and the "RLDS" initials, used to identify the Community of Christ until 2001. The document filed on Monday to the U.S. District Court, Western District of Missouri, alleges six counts of federal trademark infringement, false designation of origin, federal trademark dilution, common law unfair competition, common law trademark infringement and state trademark dilution. The Community of Christ is seeking a preliminary injunction, which would prevent use of the name until the case is settled. Several other Restoration Branches have also been using the name but no legal action has been taken against them at this time.The Joint Conference of Restoration Branches voted in April this year to use the RLDS name, as recommended by their Succession Committee. It is not yet known whether the Raytown South Branch is associated with this effort or whether this will effect any other Restoration Branches who are or have been using the RLDS name.The Reorganized Church, founded in 1860 by Joseph Smith III grew out of the original Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints founded by Joseph Smith Jr. in 1830. Historically, the RLDS have claimed to believe in the original tenets of the Latter Day Saint movement, and do not adhere to major Mormon doctrines. In the 1980s, a split occurred between conservative and liberal factions resulting in the "RLDS" which subsequently renamed itself the "Community of Christ" and which up to recent times has been uncontested as the legal successor to the original RLDS church, and the Restoration Branches, a scattered group of local churches who became separate from the main organization in protest of what they saw as incorrect changes to fundamental doctrines. Many members of Restoration Branches believe they have been disenfranchised in church government by the Community of Christ, citing the rights of branches listed in the Articles of Incorporation of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints. (1872) They argue that the methods employed to institute a policy called "Supreme Directional Control" violated the branches and individual members rights to voice and vote in the deliberative assemblies of church government.On Thursday, the Competition Commission of India (CCI), a government anti-trust watchdog, fined US-based internet technology company Google, a subsidiary of Alphabet, Inc. ₹135.86 crore (about ₹1.36 billion, US$21 million) for manipulating their search results in favour of its products and syndicates, which affected business of rival companies. In the 190-page long decision, CCI said, "Google was leveraging its dominance in the market for online general web search, to strengthen its position in the market for online syndicate search services".In the ruling passed 4–2, the watchdog said, Google's "search bias" caused "harm to its competitors as well as to users". In 2012, Consumer Unity and Tests Society (CUTS), which is a non-profit organisation, and Bharat Matrimony filed a complaint against the search engine for manipulating the search results.Google is to pay the fine within 60 days. CCI had fined them five percent of the average profit Google made over three fiscal years due to its Indian user base. Per the law, CCI could have fined Google up to ten percent of the profit.Last year, Google was fined by the European Commission (EC) for favouring certain shopping services for the amount of €2.42 billion (about US$3 billion). That accounted for five percent of "average daily worldwide turnover of Alphabet", EC's official statement read. Google was also fined by Russian Federation Antimonopoly Service for US$6.8 million in 2016 for favouring its own digital services."Whilst finding Google to have abused its dominant position, the CCI has nonetheless exercised restraint in recognizing the dynamic nature of online markets and not found Google guilty of every allegation", Naval Shah, who was representing Bharat Matrimony from Shardul Amarchand law firm, told Reuters News agency.A Google spokesperson said, "We have always focused on innovating to support the evolving needs of our users. The Competition Commission of India has confirmed that, on the majority of issues it examined, our conduct complies with Indian competition laws".The Comprehensive Immigration Reform Bill backed by both United States President George W. Bush and Massachusetts Senator Ted Kennedy failed to receive enough cloture votes to overcome a possible filibuster and move on to a final vote in the United States Senate. The cloture vote was 53 votes against and 46 votes in favor; 60 votes are needed to invoke cloture in the Senate.The large, complex bill was a compromise referred to as the "grand bargain" that would have made many changes to American immigration laws, including an expanded "guest worker" plan and a "path to citizenship" for immigrants currently residing illegally in America. The bill was largely drafted behind closed doors in negotiations between the White House and Senate leaders of both parties.Proponents argued that the bill would have fixed enforcement problems with current immigration policy and that it was a reasonable compromise, while opponents charged that it amounted to an "illegal alien amnesty". Public opinion polls showed that the bill was unpopular among Americans surveyed, many of whom believed it would make things worse. According to Rasmussen Reports, only 22% of Americans favored the bill as of June 25."Bush wanted to do something good, but the Senate wouldn't let him. It's disappointing," Miguel Gonzalez told Reuters. Gonzales has been in the United States for five years.Six of the world's largest computer companies are seeking to have a patent held by the Australian Government's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) revoked. Microsoft, Dell, Hewlett Packard, Intel, Apple and Netgear are taking legal action against the CSIRO to have its U.S. patent broken.In 1996, the CSIRO developed technology to allow computers to be networked together wirelessly. The technology is now built in to most laptop computers and manufacturers currently pay the CSIRO a licence fee to use it.According to CSIRO Chief Executive Dr Geoff Garrett, the system enables the speed of Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) to be increased by a factor of five.This isn't the first time that the CSIRO has been involved in legal action surrounding this patent: in February 2005, it commenced legal action in the United States against Buffalo Technology, a Japanese-owned company, which had ended negotiations with CSIRO about obtaining a licence.The Australian Government's research arm has announced that it will fight the legal action to protect its intellectual property, the income of which it uses to fund its research. It has come under increasing pressure following the Australian Government's cutting its funding in 2003, which has only been recently restored."As part of our business we create high quality intellectual property and we are prepared to defend it," Garrett said."We actively encourage the utilisation of the results of research in industry and communities, both nationally and globally, and any royalty income will be reinvested in further research."The patent in question is U.S. Patent 5,487,069 Wireless LAN.The case also raises issues about the recent signing of a Free Trade Agreement between Australia and the United States.  Per the agreement, Australia plans to introduce American-style intellectual property law.Indonesian pilot Marwoto Komar has been arrested over a crash he was involved in. Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 was a Boeing 737 that shot off the runway at Yogyakarta International Airport on March 7 last year, killing 21.The final report into the disaster blamed pilot error for the crash, which killed several Australian journalists following a visit by their foreign minister as well as Indonesian nationals. The investigation determined that Komar was responsible, having brought the plane in at almost double the safe landing speed. He attempted a landing at 408 kph (254 mph), which is 160 kph (100 mph) above the safe speed. The plane overshot the runway, coming to rest in a rice field where it caught fire.On Monday, Komar was arrested. He has been charged with manslaughter over the crash, and if convicted could face five years imprisonment. However, the London-based International Federation of Air Line Pilots Associations (IFALPA) commented that they were "saddened" to hear the news.IFALPA contends that further investigations are needed into the crash, and that criminal proceedings could prevent an accurate version of events from ever being known.A statement was released that read as follows: "The Federation expects that Capt. Komar will be released ... as he has agreed to fully cooperate with the police investigation and clearly poses no danger to society. He remains a professional who was involved in an unfortunate tragedy."A convicted killer in the western US state of Utah has chosen to die by firing squad in Utah's first execution in more than 10 years. Ronnie Lee Gardner indicated his preference at a state court in Salt Lake City on Friday, after being informed that an appeal against his death sentence had been rejected.Gardner was convicted in 1985 of fatally shooting an attorney during a failed escape attempt at a courthouse in the same city. Under state law, the 49-year-old had a choice between death by lethal injection or a by five-person team of shooters. "I would like the firing squad please," he told the judge.Utah is one of two states that permit execution by firing squad. The state outlawed the method in 2004, but prisoners convicted before then still have it as an option. The central U.S. state of Oklahoma also permits death by firing squad, but only if other methods are rejected in particular cases.The execution method has been criticised by some. "The firing squad is archaic, it's violent, and it simply expands on the violence that we already experience from guns as a society," said John Charles Wester, Roman Catholic Bishop of Salt Lake City.Lethal injection is generally the preferred means of executing prisoners in the U.S., whose Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976. Since then, only two prisoners in the U.S. have been executed by firing squad, both of them in Utah.The ship of the organisation Greenpeace, the Rainbow Warrior II, was blockaded off Marseille by a fleet of 30 fisherman ships. The fishermen protested against the campaign by Greenpeace regarding an alleged over-fishing of blue-fin tuna.The fishermen encircled the Rainbow Warrior II, leaving her only the room to receive supply from the land by means of small boats. The confrontation was settled when Greenpeace accepted that a ship of the French Navy, the oceanic tug Abeille Flandre, escort her to another harbour for supply, before leaving for Spain.After blockading the ship, the fishermen blockaded the commercial harbour of Marseille, blocking traffic of passengers. The préfecture maritime has required an investigation by the parquet regarding the multiple infractions which the Navy reported; these include the fishermen blocking and boarding the Rainbow Warrior II, the Rainbow Warrior II twice violating orders from the préfecture maritime not to stay off Marseille, and "problematic manoeuvers" on both sides.The British Magistrates' Association have voiced concern over the potential for confusion after the drug cannabis was reclassified by the government from Class C to Class B under the Misuse of Drugs Act.The confusion is said to arise from a new prosecution schedule for possession of the substance. Offenders will receive a warning for a first offence, an £80 immediate fine for a second offence and arrest and court proceedings for a third. This differs from the system in place for other Class B substances. However, the new system has not yet gone before the British parliament and will not be enforced until Wednesday, with the reclassification taking place today.The Magistrates' Association have argued that the new process had penalty rates lower than other Class B drugs and that the decision to take prosecutions away from the courts until a third offence sent out the wrong message to potential users.The deputy chair of the Association, John Fassenfelt, told the BBC that the new system suggested to young people that cannabis was not as bad as other Class B drugs. "It's a dual justice system", he said. "If you smoke or take another Class B drug you'll be brought to court, if you take cannabis you'll be given a fine. Where's the justice in that?" Cannabis was a Class B substance until 2004, when it was reclassified to the more lenient Class C after a campaign that began in 1979. Mental health campaigners have since pushed for a return to Class B, and the government enacted this change today.A cross-media advertising campaign will launch next month to explain the changes, at a cost of £2.2 million. Class A substances include ecstasy, LSD, cocaine, heroin and crack. Class B now includes amphetamines and cannabis, whilst Class C now includes tranquilisers, GHB and the veterinary anaesthetic Ketamine.The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) government has confirmed that at least 251 Congolese refugees died after their boat capsized on Lake Albert on Saturday, en-route from Uganda.Spokesman for the government, Lambert Mende, made the statement on Thursday: "It is with deep sorrow that we confirm the death of 251 of our compatriots who had boarded the boat from the Ugandan side of Lake Albert". President Joseph Kabila declared three days of national mourning, which began on Thursday, described by Mende as a display of compassion and solidarity with the people of Congo.The refugees were reportedly returning to the DRC, leaving Uganda voluntarily. Mende has claimed this is due to the "poor quality of welcome to which they were subjected," while the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) has recently recorded an increase in Congolese refugees spontaneously returning to the DRC, following a military victory over rebels in the nation's east last November.Tragedy struck the overcrowded vessel, when, as latest reports claim, it was carrying around three hundred people. Two boats were attempting to cross Lake Albert from the Hoima district on the Ugandan shore. The waterway is known to be dangerous when the weather is rough, and combined with a lack of life-jackets and a general inability of passengers to swim, incidents like this often lead to high body counts. Days before, a campaign had been launched by the DRC to enforce wearing lifejackets aboard all vessels in the nation’s waterways.Since Saturday, the death toll has continued to climb, it was initially reported that twenty had died. On Monday, UNHCR received information from authorities that 41 people had been rescued and 98 bodies recovered. This number climbed again by Tuesday – with reports stating 107 had died, including 57 children.The survivors were taken to the Bundibugyo district, in the north-west of Uganda, where UNHCR and the Ugandan government are providing help, including psycho-social support. Relatives of the deceased are identifying family members at the district hospital.UNHCR and the Ugandan government are assisting in the transport of the bodies back to the DRC, and have established an information and response point for relatives of the survivors. Julian Paluku, governor of the North Kivu district has said the recovery of bodies will continue.Reportedly, the refugees had originally fled the DRC after a July 2013 attack on the Kamango region to the east-northeast of the capital, Kinshasa.U.S. Representative Randy "Duke" Cunningham (R-CA) pled guilty today to conspiring to take bribes in exchange for using his influence as a member of the House Appropriations Committee to help a defense contractor get business. In total he pled guilty to one count of income tax evasion and four counts of conspiracy, namely mail fraud, wire fraud, bribery of public official and accepting bribes. U.S. District judge Larry A. Burns scheduled Cunnigham to be sentenced on February 27. He is facing up to 10 years in prison and nearly $500,000 in fines, as well as forfeiture of unspecified amounts of cash and property.In the court hearing, Cunningham admitted to accepting "bribes in exchange for performance of official duties" between "the year 2000 and June of 2005", taking "both cash payments and payments in kind" and following up by "trying to influence the Defense Department".The federal investigation against Cunningham was triggered by his sale of his California residence to defense contractor Mitchell Wade in late 2003. However, Wade never moved in and sold the house at a $700,000 loss three quarters of a year later. At the same time Wade's company MZM won tens of millions of dollars in defense contracts. Subsequent investigations discovered more questionable business transactions, including interactions with the defense contractor ADCS. In his plea agreement he testified that, among other charges, he "demanded, sought and received at least $2.4 million in illicit payments and benefits from his co-conspirators in various forms, including cash, checks, meals, travel, lodging, furnishings, antiques, rugs, yacht club fees, boat repairs and improvements, moving expenses, cars and boats."Cunningham announced his resignation after the hearing. In a written statement released by his law firm O’Melveny & Myers LLP he declared "The truth is -- I broke the law, concealed my conduct, and disgraced my high office. I know that I will forfeit my freedom, my reputation, my worldly possessions, and most importantly, the trust of my friends and family."Connecticut murder convict Robert Courchesne, who had a death sentence overturned by the state Supreme Court, collapsed in prison yesterday. He died in hospital an hour later.Courchesne, now 57, stabbed heavily pregnant Demetris Rodgers to death in 1998. In 2004 he was convicted of her murder and that of her unborn baby, delivered minutes after the murder by cesarean section. Baby Antonia Rodgers spent over a month on life support before death was confirmed. Using legislation that provided the death penalty to multiple murderers the court sentenced Courchesne to death.Courchesne reached the Connecticut Supreme Court in 2010 and had the Antonia murder conviction overturned. The court ruled it was not proved the baby was alive at the time of the cesarean delivery. The death penalty was substituted with a 60-year sentence which prosecutors accepted instead of opting for a retrial.Yesterday's death at Danbury Hospital is being probed by police and prison officials, but is not considered suspicious. Courchesne collapsed while walking in the Garner Correctional Center, Newtown at around 10:35 a.m. local time.Connecticut abolished the death penalty in 2012, but those already on death row remained sentenced to die.In the United States, the state of Connecticut has repealed the death penalty, becoming the seventeenth state in the U.S. to do so. The state's governor Dannel Malloy signed the repeal into law on Wednesday and is to take effect immediately."This afternoon I signed legislation that will, effective today, replace the death penalty with life in prison without the possibility of release as the highest form of legal punishment in Connecticut.  Although it is an historic moment – Connecticut joins 16 other states and the rest of the industrialized world by taking this action – it is a moment for sober reflection, not celebration," said Malloy in a written statement on his website.In future convictions, the death penalty will be replaced with life imprisonment with no possibility of parole. However, despite the state's decision, prisoners currently serving a death row sentence are still set to be executed as planned. Currently in Connecticut, eleven prisoners are serving a death row sentence, all of them men. The repeal bill was passed in the state's house of representatives with 86 supporting the measure and 63 opposing it. The senate had passed the measure just seven days before. Jodi Rell, then Connecticut's governor, blocked a prior attempt at repeal by state lawmakers in 2009.Only one person in Connecticut has been executed since 1976, when the U.S. government reinstated the death penalty after the U.S. Supreme Court upheld capital punishment. That execution of serial killer Michael Bruce Ross occurred in 2005 by lethal injection."As our state moves beyond this divisive debate, I hope we can all redouble our efforts and common work to improve the fairness and integrity of our criminal justice system, and to minimize its fallibility," added Malloy.NEW LONDON,CT —Serial killer Michael Ross appeared before a Connecticut court today, and told Judge Patrick Clifford that he wanted to die.  If executed, Ross will be the first person put to death in Connecticut in over 40 years.Ross admitted to killing eight women in Connecticut and New York in the 1980s, and to raping several of them.The hearing considered whether Ross, who holds a degree in economics from Cornell University, was mentally competent to waive his appeals.  Dr. Michael Norko, appointed by the court to examine Ross, testified that Ross is a sexual sadist and is prone to depression.  Ross had attempted suicide three times in the past, Norko told the court, but he is not suicidal now.  Norko further testifed that Ross is taking medication to control his psychiatric problems.Norko testified that Ross made a rational decision in electing to waive his appeals, and the court agreed, finding Ross clear headed and well educated."This decision is his right to make," Judge Clifford said from the bench.However, Ross' father and the Connecticut Public Defender's Office have filed motions in Rockville Superior Court claiming that Ross suffered from mental delusions at the time of his orignial trial, and that his previous attorneys did a poor job defending him.  There is no word when the Rockville court will rule.Ross is scheduled to die January 26, 2005.On Wednesday, a United States federal appeals court upheld convictions of fraud and obstruction of justice against media mogul Conrad Black, along with three other executives from his former press corporation, Hollinger International.Black, born in Canada and bearer of the title Baron Black of Crossharbour in the United Kingdom, was found guilty in July 2007 of three counts of wire and mail fraud for giving himself and others millions of dollars in illegal bonuses taken from Hollinger holdings, and for obstruction of justice based on surveillance footage of his moving 13 boxes of documents out of his Toronto office to his home the day after he was informed that he was being investigated. He was sentenced, and from March this year he began a 6 1/2-year prison term. Peter Atkinson and John Boultbee were convicted on the same fraud charges, and were sentenced to terms of 24 and 27 months respectively, while Mark Kipnis, who was implicated in the fraud, was given probation with 6 months of home detention.The appeals panel from the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, who heard the defence attorneys' oral arguments, presented its opinion in a 16-page document in which they rejected arguments against the fraud and obstruction charges. They noted that while the defence had presented a "no harm-no foul argument", in which it was argued that the accused were owed the money appropriated, "such arguments usually fare badly in criminal cases". They also dismissed claims that instructions given to the jury by the judge had been incomplete, or unclear, stating that "the defendants proposed a misleading statement as an alternative", and that in such situations the judge is allowed to stay with the original instruction, and in particular is not required "that a submitted charge be technically perfect to alert the court to the need for a particular charge".The appeals judges also discounted arguments from the defence regarding the defendants being unaware of the illegality of the transactions, making reference to an "ostrich argument", based on the urban legend that ostriches sensing danger stick their heads in the sand. It was noted that choosing not to investigate the suspicious nature of the payments was equivalent to accepting their illegality. An argument from Black's defence regarding the obstruction charge, that in moving the documents he was not in fact escaping scrutiny, was similarly rejected, as "all that needed to be proved is that the document was concealed in order to make it unavailable in an official proceeding," according to the ruling as written by Judge Richard Posner.Andrew Frey, the defence attorney for Conrad Black, said that the court's decision was based on "a number of factual misunderstandings", and that the defendants were considering a request for a rehearing of the appeal.Jamal al-Bedawi, one of the planners of the USS Cole bombing in 2000 that killed 17 American Navy personnel and injured 39 others in Yemen, has been freed from a prison in Sanaá, the capital of Yemen after he "pleaded allegiance" to the president of the country, and will be kept under house arrest with extreme security.Al-Bedawi, who was serving a death sentence for his role in the attack, escaped from a Yemeni prison in February of 2006 along with another plotter of the attack, Fawaz al-Rabeiee, who has yet to be captured. Al-Bedawi turned himself in to authorities just over two weeks ago. 21 other militants, 13 of which who were members of al-Qaeda, also escaped from the prison.United States officials have described the move as "disappointing." "This action is inconsistent with a deepening of our bilateral counter-terrorism co-operation. We have communicated our displeasure to Yemeni officials," said a U.S. National Security Council spokesman.There has been no official information has yet to be released to the press about the decision or the conditions of al-Bedawi's release.Yemen denied on Sunday media reports that a man convicted over the al Qaeda bombing of the U.S. Navy ship Cole in 2000 had been set free.Six media organisations, including Fairfax, are mounting a constitutional challenge to secret hearings in an upcoming terrorism trial in Australia.The trial involves Sydney man Faheem Khalid Lodhi, who is charged with committing acts in preparation for a terrorist attack. Lodhi is accused of conspiring with French terror suspect Willie Brigitte to attack Sydney's military bases and electricity supply network.Federal Attorney-General Phillip Ruddock will issue a certificate to prevent information judged to be sensitive from reaching the public at Lodhi's trial. The Federal Attorney-General has the powers to do this under the National Security Information (Criminal and Civil Proceedings) Act.The grounds for the challenge are that National Security Information legislation violates the separation of executive and judical powers, required by the Australian constitution. Tom Blackburn, SC, counsel for the media groups mounting the challenge claims that the act allows for the federal executive to intrude into judicial matters by ordering parts of the trial are kept secret.The challenge will be heard on 31st January 2006 by Justice Anthony Whealy of the Supreme Court of NSW.In the course of Lodhi's trial, towards the end of December Justice Anthony Whealy ruled that evidence and pre-trial maters are to remain secret.  This ruling is separate to the constitutional challenge.The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta, Georgia agreed to hear Victor DiMaio's suit against the Democratic National Committee on Monday. Dimaio sued the DNC over their decision to ignore the results of Florida's Democratic primary.DiMaio claims that excluding Florida's Democratic voters and allowing some states to vote earlier than others violates the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. The DNC countered that they have the power to exclude any state that does not follow their rules, and that the Supreme Court has repeatedly upheld the right of political parties to make and enforce their own rules as protected by the Freedom of Association in the First Amendment. The DNC's rules currently allow early primaries to be held in only four states: Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, and South Carolina.  The appellate court's decision could take more than a month. Whichever way this court decides, the losing party is expected to petition the U.S. Supreme Court to review the question.Meanwhile, a furor is brewing inside the Democratic Party over what will be done with the delegates representing the voters of Florida and Michigan. Schemes to offer an inexpensive mail-in revote in Florida have been abandoned by the Florida Democratic Party as being at risk of vote tampering. A plan to distribute Florida's delegates among the candidates was proposed Wednesday by Florida state senators Steven Gelleras and Jeremy Ring. The plan recommends seating half of Florida's 210 delegates based on the votes cast in Florida's primary. Their remaining delegates could be allocated evenly or in proportion to each candidate's national tally.The Michigan legislature was considering a re-run of the Michigan Democratic primary for June 3rd but Barack Obama questioned the legality of the planned vote. The Michigan legislature adjourned for spring recess today (Thursday) before reaching a decision which has effectively ended the possibility of a re-vote on June 3rd. Last minute deals are still possible but the re-ballot would have to occur before June 10 to comply with DNC rules.Almost 13,000 children in China have fallen sick in a wave of sickness caused by baby's milk contaminated with melamine, a banned chemical which can cause kidney stones, irritation, and ulcers. Most of the sickened children are infants two years or younger, and four children have died from the chemical so far. The Chinese Health Ministry has stated that most of the tainted milk was produced by Shijiazhuang Sanlu Group Co.'s infant milk powder and have pulled several dairy products off the shelves of Chinese stores. Sanlu, Mengniu and Yili were among the largest brands recalled, and have been attempting to repair their damaged public image. Yili announced that it would be reviewing its manufacturing process and making necessary safety changes. Yang Wenjun, president of Mengniu, apologized for the contamination and promised to make changes as well. Sanlu, meanwhile, has stopped production and is checking all products.The Ministry is conducting an investigation into why the number of illnesses doubled Saturday. Ten percent of yogurt, milk and ice cream is also contaminated, however adults will not be affected if they drink less than two litres a day of the contaminated products. Melamine is an industrial byproduct, infamous for poisoning thousands of pets in the United States in 2007. Investigators believe it was used by desperate dairy companies to disguise diluted milk in dairy products in order to pass quality tests and make higher profits.United States air carrier Continental Airlines and two of their employees have been charged over the crash of Air France Flight 4590. The disaster involved a Concorde crash on July 25, 2000 near Charles de Gaulle International Airport, Paris, France that killed all 109 on board and four more on the ground. It was carrying mostly German tourists to John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York.The crash occurred after a metal strip detached from a Continental DC-10 that departed before the Concorde and was left behind on the runway. When Concorde took off afterwards it hit the strip, which punctured a tyre. As the tyre disintegrated a piece of debris punctured a fuel tank, triggering a large fire as the jet took off. The badly damaged aircraft crashed into a hotel before it was able to perform an emergency landing. The final report was not released until 2004.One Continental employee, mechanic John Taylor, is being charged over making and installing the non-standard strip. Head of maintenance Stanley Ford is being charged for allowing the part to be modified by Taylor without clearing the changes properly, and the airline is charged for allowing the widebodied passenger jet back into the air and having failed to maintain it adequately. It is also claimed the titanium strip should have been made of softer aluminium, which had a lower risk of damaging tyres.Three further individuals have been charged as well. Henri Perrier, head of the initial Concorde programme at Aerospatiale, Jacques Herubel, Concorde chief engineer at the time and Claude Frantzen, ex-head of technical services at the French civil aviation authority are all facing charges. The charges are primarily for involuntary manslaughter.As a result of the Concorde disaster the aircraft was grounded pending emergency modifications. It was official removed from service in 2003 by its only two operators, British Airways and Air France. The model's first commercial flight was in 1976, and it was the world's first supersonic airliner. It was developed as a collaboration between Britain and France.A police officer has been killed in County Armagh, Northern Ireland by Continuity IRA gunmen a mere 48 hours after two soldiers were killed.In what is presumed to be an attempt by dissident Republicans to derail the peace process, Pc Stephen Carroll was shot in the head just before 10:00 p.m. on March 9.The officer, described as an experienced veteran with 23 years of service, was responding to a call for help in the Lismore Manor estate in Craigavon when he was shot. In what is described as a genuine incident, a female member of the public had called for help saying a street gang had broken a window.A two vehicle patrol was sent to the incident given previous trouble in the area. After standing off for a reasonable period to ensure that there was no ambush, the members of one vehicle got out to deal with the incident, whilst those in the second vehicle provided cover, while providing cover in the second vehicle that Pc Carrol was attacked.The PSNI, believe that the officer was hit by one of two shots fired by a gunman secreted in scrubland on the estate. There are unconfirmed reports that a second officer has also been injured.Responsibility for the shooting has been claimed on behalf of the North Armagh Battalion of the Continuity IRA in a coded message to Belfast media.The shooting has led to a call for unity and calm from a broad spectrum of the community ranging from spokesmen for the Ulster Volunteer Force, who called for the gunmen to be dealt with through the courts, to Sinn Féin were quick to condemn the gunmen and to offer their condolences to the family of the dead officer.This is the first death of a police officer to sectarian violence in over a decade, and comes after a nine month period in which intelligence indicated that dissidents were aiming to kill a policeman.A man was arrested in Bristol, United Kingdom on suspicion of terrorism Friday. There has also been a controlled explosion. Parts of the city were evacuated. The person who was arrested is believed to be 19 years old.Assistant chief constable for Avon and Somerset police commented on the incident. “During yesterday and overnight, Avon and Somerset Constabulary have been co-ordinating a number of covert inquiries,“ she said."As a result, a 19-year-old man was arrested yesterday afternoon under the Terrorism Act 2000," she continued."It is unlikely that those who have been evacuated will be able to return to their homes until much later today at the earliest but I am sure that they will understand that this inconvenience is to ensure their safety and welfare and I can only repeat we are extremely grateful for their co-operation."A Wikinews reporter visited the nearest main road, Henleaze Road in the hours after the arrest, to report on the incident. It was noted that there was a significantly higher number of police vehicles in the area, compared to the usual figure.The Wikinews reporter also noted that there were several reporters gathered around the local police station.A large police van was also noticed outside the police station.Avon and Somerset police hosted a press conference in which they released a statement. The beginning of the statement can be found below:BBC News has reported that the arrested man was a follower of the religion of Islam. This has not yet been confirmed.By 1700 Local Time (1600 UTC), the police presence in the area surrounding Henleaze Road had decreased dramatically. People on Henleaze Road this evening told Wikinews that they were, among other things, "shocked" and "surprised," by today's events.A suspicious bag has undergone a controlled explosion outside a London Underground station, as has a car outside a mosque in Glasgow, Scotland.These police actions come in the wake of failed terror attacks involving car bombs in London and at Glasgow International Airport on 29th and 30th June.  The terror threat level in the UK remains critical, indicating that an attack could be expected imminently and high security is in evidence on mass transport routes, while the police continue their investigations.  Earlier this morning, a controlled explosion took place on a suspicious package discovered outside Hammersmith Station on the London Underground system. The scare led to the closure of Hammersmith and Barons Court stations for one hour. Two other stations, Tower Hill and East Ham, were closed in similar circumstances. All four stations have now been reopened.Sky news reports that three controlled explosions took place on a car outside a mosque in Glasgow, in order to allow police to gain entry to it. The mosque itself is not being linked to the terror attacks.The Muslim Council of Britain has condemned the attacks, and has urged Muslims throughout the country to assist in police investigations.The police force is continuing its investigations throughout the country, with an open appeal to the country for vigilance in reporting anything suspicious.A controversial development training course called "Landmark Forum" is cited in religious discrimination lawsuits in United States federal courts in New York and Washington, D.C. The seminars are run by a San Francisco, California-based for-profit training company called Landmark Education. The company evolved from Erhard Seminars Training "est", and has faced criticism regarding its techniques and its use of unpaid labor. The sperm bank and surrogacy company Los Angeles-based Growing Generations is named as a defendant in the New York lawsuit, and the Democratic political action committee Twenty-First Century Democrats is a defendant in the Washington, D.C. case.In separate lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in Manhattan, New York, and in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in Washington, D.C., former employees are suing their employers for monetary damages and claiming religious discrimination after their employers allegedly mandated that they attend courses at Landmark Education.In the US$3 million federal lawsuit filed in New York, Scott Glasgow is suing his former employer Growing Generations and its CEO Stuart Miller. Growing Generations maintains sperm banks and also arranges surrogacy for gay couples who wish to have children. The company has offices in New York and Los Angeles, and has done business with celebrities including actor B. D. Wong of Law & Order: SVU. Glasgow was marketing director of Growing Generations, and claims he was fired in June 2007 after refusing to continue attending Landmark Education seminars. Glasgow is also suing for sexual harassment, and claims Miller came on to him in September 2006. He made approximately $100,000 per year as the company's marketing director, and was the company's only employee based out of New York City. The company's main offices are in Los Angeles."I was shocked when I was fired. It took me months to right myself. I want them to stop imposing Landmark on the employees, and I want an apology," said Glasgow in a statement in The Village Voice. Brent Pelton, one of Glasgow's attorneys, stated that: "The Landmark philosophy is deeply ingrained in the culture of the company". Glasgow said that the Landmark Education training courses were "opposite" to his Christian beliefs. According to Glasgow he was questioned by Miller in May 2007 after he walked out of a Landmark Education course, and was fired shortly thereafter. "We stand by the allegations contained in the complaint and we look forward to proving them at trial," said Pelton in a statement to ABC News.Ian Wallace, an attorney who represents Growing Generations, claimed that Glasgow wasn't fired but walked away from his position. "Growing Generations and Mr. Miller are very confident that these claims will be dismissed ultimately, and there's no factual basis for them whatsoever," said Wallace in a statement to The Village Voice. Lawyers representing Growing Generations and Stuart Miller declined comment to The New York Post, and did not immediately return a message from ABC News.In Glasgow's complaint, entered into federal court record on April 18, he asserts that Landmark Education constitutes a "religion", and "perceived their philosophy as a form of religion that contradicted his own personal beliefs". He states that when he was promoted to Director of Marketing, he asked Miller if he could stop attending the Landmark sessions but was told that they were mandatory for all of the company's executives and that Landmark is "very much the language of the company." Glasgow said his performance at the company was assessed based on how he was "touching, moving and inspiring" others, a phrase from the Landmark philosophy, as opposed to his business accomplishments at the company. The complaint claims that the actions of Miller and Growing Generations violated Federal, New York State and New York City civil rights laws.The lawsuit filed in federal court in Washington, D.C. deals with a separate plaintiff and company, but the plaintiff in the suit also claims that religious discrimination took place for allegedly being mandated to attend Landmark Education courses. Kenneth Goldman is suing the United States Democratic political action committee Twenty-First Century Democrats (also 21st Century Democrats) and its former executive director Kelly Young. Goldman was formerly the communications director of 21st Century Democrats. According to Goldman's complaint, three employees of 21st Century Democrats were fired after refusing to attend the Landmark Forum course. The complaint asserts that Landmark Education has "religious characteristics and theological implications" which influenced the mission of 21st Century Democrats and the way the organization conducted business. Goldman's complaint states that in addition to himself, a training director and field director were also fired after they made it clear they would not attend the Landmark Forum. Goldman says executive director Young infused Landmark Education jargon terms into staff meetings such as "create possibilities", "create a new context", and "enroll in possibilities". He also claims that Young "urged" staff members to participate in Landmark Education events outside of the workplace, drove employees to and from Landmark functions, and used funds from 21st Century Democrats to pay for employees to attend those functions. Goldman's complaint asserts that he was discriminated against in violation of the District of Columbia Human Rights Act. In a statement in The Washington Times, the executive director of 21st Century Democrats, Mark Lotwis, called the lawsuit "frivolous" and said: "we're going to defend our organization's integrity". Landmark Education spokeswoman Deborah Beroset said that the Landmark Forum "is in no way religious in nature and any claim to the contrary is simply absurd," and stated: "While we are not a party to this lawsuit and have no firsthand knowledge of it, we can only assume that we are being used as a legal and political football to further the plaintiff"s own financial interests."The New York lawsuit was filed April 14, and is still in early filing stages. A conference with the federal court judge in the case has been scheduled for June 17. The Washington, D.C. suit began in November 2007, and entered mediation this past March. As of April 15 the parties in the case were due back to court on July 11 to update the court on the mediation process. Landmark Education is descended from Erhard Seminars Training, also called "est", which was founded by Werner Erhard. est began in 1971, and Erhard's company Werner Erhard and Associates repackaged the course as "The Forum" in 1985. Associates of Erhard bought the license to his "technology" and incorporated Landmark Education in California in 1991.This is not the first time employees have sued claiming mandatory attendance at "Forum" workshops violated their civil rights. In a lawsuit filed in December 1988 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, eight employees of DeKalb Farmers Market in Decatur, Georgia sued their employer claiming their religious freedom and civil rights were violated when they were allegedly coerced into attending "Forum" training sessions. "Many of these training programs, particularly at large corporations, claim to be purely psychological, aimed at improving productivity and morale and loyalty. But in fact they are religious," said University of Denver religious studies professor Carl Raschke in a statement to The Wall Street Journal.The DeKalb Farmers Market employees were represented by lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union. Consulting Technologies Inc., an affiliate of Transformational Technologies Inc., was named as a party in the lawsuit. Transformational Technologies was founded by Werner Erhard, and was not named as a party in the suit. The "Forum" course that the employees claimed they were mandated to attend was developed by Werner Erhard and Associates. Employees said that they were fired or pressured to quit after they objected to the Forum courses. The workers claimed that the Forum course contradicted with their religious beliefs. The plaintiffs in the suit included adherents of varying religious backgrounds, including Christianity and Hinduism. "The sessions put people into a hibernating state. They ask for total loyalty. It's like brainwashing," said Dong Shik Kim, one of the plaintiffs in the case. The plaintiffs said they lost their jobs after objecting to a "new age quasi-religious cult" which they said was developed by Werner Erhard.The DeKalb Farmers Market denied the allegations, and an attorney for the company Edward D. Buckley III told The Wall Street Journal that employees were encouraged, not coerced, to attend the training sessions. According to The Wall Street Journal, The Forum said it would not sanction workers being coerced to attend its training sessions. The parties in the DeKalb Farmers Market religious discrimination case came to a settlement in May 1989, and the case was dismissed with prejudice in June. The terms of the out-of-court settlement were not made public, but the employees' attorney Amy Totenberg told The Wall Street Journal that the case "has made employers come to grips with the legitimate boundaries of employee training".According to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, employers must "reasonably accommodate" their employees' religious beliefs unless this creates "undue hardship". In September 1988, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued a policy-guidance notice which stated that New Age courses should be handled under Title VII of the Act. According to the Commission, employers must provide "reasonable accommodation" if an employee challenges a training course, unless this causes "undue hardship" for the company.In October 2006, Landmark Education took legal action against Google, YouTube, the Internet Archive and a website owner in Queensland, Australia in attempts to remove criticism of its products from the Internet. The company sought a subpoena under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in an attempt to discover the identity of an anonymous critic who uploaded a 2004 French documentary of the Landmark Forum to the Internet. "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" (Voyage to the Land of the New Gurus) was produced by Pièces à Conviction, a French investigative journalism news program. The Electronic Frontier Foundation represented the anonymous critic and the Internet Archive, and Landmark withdrew its subpoena in November 2006 in exchange for a promise from the anonymous critic not to repost the video.Landmark Education itself has come under scrutiny for its controversial labor practices. The company has been investigated by the United States Department of Labor in separate investigations originating out of California, Colorado, and Texas. Investigations focused on the heavy reliance of unpaid labor in the company's workforce, which Landmark Education calls "assistants" and deems volunteers. An investigation by the U.S. Dept. Labor based out of Colorado found that activities performed by Landmark Education's "assistants" include: "office, clerical, telephone solicitation and enrollment, as well as greeting customers, setting up chairs, handling microphones during the seminars and making coffee. Additionally, a number of volunteers actually teach the courses and provide testimonials during and after the courses." The Colorado investigation's 1996 report found that "No records are kept of any hours worked by any employees." According to a 1998 article in Metro Silicon Valley: "In the end the Department of Labor dropped the issue, leaving Landmark trumpeting about its volunteers' choice in the matter." Metro Silicon Valley reported that Landmark Education at the time employed 451 paid staff, and also utilized the services of 7,500 volunteers.After an investigation into Landmark Education's labor practices by the U.S. Dept. Labor's offices out of California, the company was deemed to have overtime violations. According to the Department of Labor's 2004 report on the investigation, back wages of $187,569.01 were found due to 45 employees. An investigation by the U.S. Dept. Labor in Texas which concluded in 2005 stated: "Minimum wage violation found. Volunteers (Assistants) are not paid any wages for hours worked while performing the major duties of the firm. The assistants set up rooms, call registrants, collect fees, keep stats of classroom data/participants, file, they also are answering phones, training and leading seminars." The Texas investigation also discovered an overtime violation. Landmark Education agreed to pay back wages for the overtime violation, but did not comply with the overtime violation found by the U.S. Dept. Labor for the "assistants". Landmark Education denied that the "assistants" are employees, though the Department of Labor report concluded: "Interviews reveal that the employees are taking payments, registering clients, billing, training, recruiting, setting up locations, cleaning, and other duties that would have to be performed by staff if the assistants did not perform them."According to the 2004 investigative report by Pièces à Conviction in the "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" program, Landmark Education was investigated by the French government in 1995. In the "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" program volunteers were filmed through a hidden camera and shown performing duties for Landmark Education in France including manning phones, recruitment and financial work for the company, and one volunteer was shown cleaning a toilet. Le Nouvel Observateur reported that after "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" aired in France, labor inspectors investigated Landmark Education's use of unpaid volunteers. According to Le Nouvel Observateur, one month after the labor investigation took place the French branch of the company had disbanded. A former "Introduction Leader" to the Landmark Forum, Lars Bergwik, has recently posted a series of videos to YouTube critical of the company and its practices. Bergwik appeared on a 2004 investigative journalism program on Sweden's Channel 4, Kalla Fakta (Cold Facts). According to Bergwik, after the Kalla Fakta program on Landmark Education aired, "Landmark left Sweden".Controversial evangelist leader Tony Alamo was arrested in Flagstaff, Arizona Thursday and faces charges related to child sex abuse allegations at the Tony Alamo Christian Ministry organization. Alamo has previously been convicted on charges of tax evasion. United States federal agents raided Alamo's compound in Arkansas on Saturday and six girls were taken into state custody.Law enforcement officials raided Alamo's compound in Fouke, Arkansas on Saturday and removed six girls aged 10 to 17. Over 100 federal and state agents participated in the raid on the compound, which followed a two-year investigation into Alamo and his organization. Law enforcement officials were searching for evidence that minors had been videotaped performing sexual activities or had been molested. The Federal Bureau of Investigation searched Alamo's property for child pornography. Alamo, who claims he is legally blind and wouldn't be able to see child pornography, preaches that girls should marry young and sex with post-puberty girls is 'okay' because "in the Bible it happened"."It's the transportation of minors with the intent to engage in criminal activity. The state concerns are children living at the facility may have been sexually and physically abused," said Little Rock, Arkansas FBI representative Tom Browne in a statement to KABC-TV.The Associated Press (AP) has reported that Alamo will likely appear in federal court Friday in Flagstaff, Arizona, on charges that he violated the Mann Act by facilitating transport of minors across state lines for inappropriate sexual conduct. Documents produced by the FBI referred to Alamo by his birth name, Bernie Lazar Hoffman. Alamo has stated that he was born into Judaism but later converted to Christianity. According to the FBI, Alamo's court appearance Friday is intended to determine when he will be transported from Arizona back to Arkansas to face charges there.Hearings have been scheduled for Friday and Monday by a state judge, to decide if the Department of Human Services of Arkansas can retain custody of the six girls. "We will transport them to and from hearings. We will take part in any future hearings. Our job right now is to basically take care of them," said agency representative Julie Munsell in a statement reported to the AP. The six girls will be present at the hearings in Arkansas: hearings for two of the girls will take place Friday and hearings for the other four on Monday. The Southern Poverty Law Center, an organization which maintains data on hate groups, has described Alamo's organization as a "cult". The Ross Institute Internet Archives for the Study of Destructive Cults, Controversial Groups and Movements maintains a web page on Tony Alamo and his organization. AP reported that many former members of Alamo's organization also characterize the Tony Alamo Christian Ministries as a "cult".Anna Pugh, a former member of the organization for 11 years, recounted some of her experiences in what she referred to as "Tony's Cult" to KOCO-TV. She stated that while she was living at Alamo's compound she felt she was brainwashed. Pugh says that while she was a member of the group a seven-year-old girl took her aside and told her Alamo had sexual conduct with minors while watching pornography. "I think that congregation in there needs to see what that man is. He is a monster. He is a very unmerciful, malicious, vindictive, judgemental, condemning person," said Pugh. Former member Anthony Lane told KSLA-TV he was kicked out of Tony Alamo Christian Ministries when he questioned some of Alamo's teachings. "He is definitely a man who arranges marriages of little girls, and orders beatings of little children," said Lane. He has been getting help from a support group called Partnered against Cult Activities (PACA). Lane is trying to gain custody of his three children who are still in the group with his wife. Alamo was convicted of tax evasion in 1994, and was released from prison in 1998 after serving four years out of a six year sentence. The Internal Revenue Service said Alamo owed the U.S. government US$7.9 million. Prosecutors in the tax evasion case argued prior to Alamo's sentencing that he was a flight risk, and a polygamist who conducted inappropriate activities with women and girls in his organization.The Tony Alamo Christian Ministry organization promotes a philosophy and belief system which asserts sex with underage girls and polygamy is acceptable. The organization is critical of Catholicism, homosexuality, and the government. Tony Alamo Christian Ministry has compounds in Arkansas, California, Georgia and New Jersey, and Alamo himself lives near Los Angeles.Florida attorney Jack Thompson was disbarred by a ruling of the Florida Supreme Court on Thursday for a variety of offenses, and has been banned from practicing law in Florida. The proceedings listed ten distinct behaviors by Thompson that led to his disbarment, including making false statements to a court, and violating a court order. Judge Dava Tunis said that Thompson had "abused the legal system by submitting numerous, frivolous and inappropriate filings". The judge also noted that Thompson had shown no remorse for his actions and had refused to cooperate with the disbarment hearing. Tunis concluded that the probability of rehabilitation was small. In addition to this disbarment, Thompson is required to pay the court $43,675.35 as a recovery for the court's time and expense.Thompson had previously come to public attention in 1988 when he ran for Dade County prosecutor against then incumbent Janet Reno. Thompson made repeated accusations that Reno was a lesbian and subsequently filed battery charges against Reno. These charges were found to be without merit.After he lost the election to Reno, Thompson engaged in a variety of moral campaigns. Thompson targeted rap music and Howard Stern. Over the last decade Thompson has focused most of his effort against video games and computer games, accusing them of promoting violence and encouraging children to engage in violent behavior. His most recent media attention came when he criticized Grand Theft Auto series of games for sexual and violent content and Bully for violent content. Thompson responded to the disbarment by issuing a press release claiming it was politically motivated. "The timing of this disbarment transparently reveals its motivation: This past Friday Thompson filed a federal civil rights action against The Bar, the Supreme Court, and all seven of its Justices. This rush to disbarment is in retribution for the filing of that federal suit." Thompson went on to say that "this should be fun, starting now."George Tiller, a controversial doctor who performed late-term abortions, has been shot dead in a church in Kansas, United States. A man is in custody over the killing.67-year-old Tiller had been the target of many previous attacks. In 1986 his clinic was seriously damaged in a bombing and in 1993 he was shot in both arms. In 1991 his clinic saw summer-long protests that resulted in 2,000 arrests and he said that in 1994 he was put under police protection after FBI agents uncovered an anti-abortion 'hit list' naming him as a top target. The clinic was vandalized earlier this month.The controversy stemmed from the fact that his clinic is one of just three in the United States that performed late-term abortions, which are abortions of fetuses which are capable of surviving outside of the womb. This is legal in Kansas so long as two doctors agree the mother is in serious danger if she were to give birth.Tiller was recently tried on charges of performing nineteen illegal abortions in 2003; he was cleared of any wrongdoing at the end of a trial described by his lawyer as a 'witch-hunt'. It was alleged that there were irregularities and a financial involvement in his relationship with the doctor who gave second opinions in the abortions.Another controversy was sparked by donations Tiller made to support Kathleen Sebelius, then governor of Kansas. The donations, coupled with Sebelius' abortion-rights views, caused anti-abortion groups to oppose her nomination as U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, but the Senate confirmed her in a 65 to 31 vote in April.Tiller was killed at 10 a.m. local time in the Reformation Lutheran in Wichita. A white man was witnessed with a handgun killing the doctor before fleeing in a blue Ford Taurus. The vehicle's number plate was traced to Kansas City, 200 miles from Wichita.State police and the FBI were involved in the hunt for the gunman. A suspect is now in custody.Spain's Ministry for Development has leaked a preliminary report into the crash of Spanair Flight 5022. The McDonnel-Douglas MD-82 that was lost at Madrid's Barajas Airport in Spanair's first and only fatal accident resulted in the deaths of 154. Controversy has come as a result of both the documents' contents and the fact that it was leaked at all.According to the report, the airliner was defective for as yet undetermined reasons. The wing flaps failed to move into the required configuration for takeoff, and the alarm system that would normally alert pilots failed to activate, leaving the pilots unaware of the impending crash. The report goes on to note that after a similar accident befell Northwest Airlines Flight 255 in the United States in 1987, also with 154 dead, manufacturer McDonnel-Douglas (since merged with Boeing) told operators of MD-82s that they recommended pilots verified the alarm system was operational before every takeoff.Spanair, however, did not follow this advice and instead trained pilots to check the system before the first takeoff each day and after each change in flight crew. The plane had been taken to Madrid from Barcelona earlier that day with the same flight crew, and therefore the pilots were not expected to check the alarm.File:Columnas de humo del accidente aéreo de Madrid-Barajas (2008).jpgSpanair's director of operations, Javier Muela, has responded by denial that the primary cause of the crash was the alarm's failure, as was implied by the report. He did confirm that the airline was not following the recommendation from the airframer, but in his defense said that "Spanair did not exist" at the time - "it was made in 87, Spanair was founded in 88," he said. He also said the airline's independent experts did not believe the reports claims about the incorrect flap position was accurate.Typically, airliners come with documents detailing operating recommendations among other details, but newspapers have not confirmed that Spanair did in fact receive this information with any of its MD-82s.Regardless of the report's accuracy, further controversy has arisen over its status, with a pilots' union enraged over the fact that it was ever made public. The Pilots College, COPAC, expressed an intention to bring legal action against the Ministry for Development. The union say the ministry broke protocols on both confidentiality and law.Meanwhile, the investigation continues. It remains unclear why the systems on the aircraft failed, if they indeed did, although Spanish paper El Pais speculates it may be linked to a faulty temperature gauge on one of the engines, which caused the first attempted takeoff to be aborted and delayed the flight an hour. Javier Pérez, the judge in charge of the investigation, will examine the contents of the aircraft's flight recorders tomorrow. It is also reported that he is unlikely to call any witnesses to the disaster.Hurricane Katrina has rekindled debate over the controversial Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005, in the U.S. House of Represenatives.  Congressional Democrats feel that among the hundreds of thousands of victims of Katrina, many of whom have lost all their possessions and are coping with relocation, those that declare bankruptcy should be granted the protections of the previous law.  32 Democrats have sponsored a proposal that would delay implementing certain parts of the law to "insure that we do not compound a natural disaster with a man made financial disaster."The new bankruptcy law affects anyone whose income (as of the six months before filing) was over the state median income.  Democratic legislators point out that many hurricane victims who manage to find work will be suffering from wage reductions, making them unable to effectively deal with their previous debts.  Among U.S. states, Louisana and Mississippi have the fourth and third lowest median incomes, respectively.  Democrats also feel that it is unfair to require repayment by bankrupted Hurricane Katrina victims while citizens in other states with similar incomes would pay nothing.  F. James Sensenbrenner, Republican from Wisconsin and chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, has denied a hearing on creating an exception in the law for the purposes of Katrina relief.  He noted that "If someone in Katrina is down and out, and has no possibility of being able to repay 40 percent or more of their debts, then the new bankruptcy law doesn't apply."The Bankruptcy Abuse Prevention and Consumer Protection Act of 2005 has been heavily criticized by consumer rights' organizations.  The Consumer Federation of America argues that "[the] new requirements, coupled with strict deadlines for production upon the penalty of an automatic dismissal are difficult for the most organized person to meet, never mind someone who has had his or her home destroyed by Katrina."Opponents of the bill also argued that it makes the government "a bill collector for private companies", and could lead to criminal prosecutions over matters best left in civil courts, and theoretically even to life imprisonment under federal three-strikes laws.  Such opponents view the bulk of the act either as "bought and paid for" by the Credit Card Industry, who spent millions lobbying in support of the bill, or else as an unfortunate compromise between the lobbyists for banks and bankruptcy lawyers, such as the American Bankruptcy Institute (ABI).  Nathalie Martin, of ABI, said that "Many people will still qualify to file for Chapter 7," which means liquidation of assets in exchange for cancellation of debt.Michael Shields, an 18-year old Liverpool Football Club supporter, has been jailed for the attempted murder of a Bulgarian barman, despite another man from Liverpool admitting full responsibility.Shields, 18 from Wavertree was charged with the attempted murder of Martin Georgiev, 25, after being accused of throwing a brick at the barman's head  in the city of Varna, where he was celebrating Liverpool football club's win over AC Milan in the final of the Champions League in Istanbul in May.Before being charged, a 20 year old man from Anfield came forward and claimed responsibility for the attack - Graham Sankey, made a statement through his lawyer David Kirwan.Mr Kirwan said: "Graham believed the case against Michael would either be thrown or adjourned after he came forward to make his confession." Despite the confession, Shields was convicted of attempted murder.Shields' uncle, Joey Graney, was in court when the sentence was passed and said: "Michael was sobbing. He's an 18-year-old lad, quiet as a mouse, on his own, going back to a Bulgarian jail. What's he going to do? As far as the Bulgarians were concerned, a local lad had been attacked and they wanted their scapegoat. They did not care that Graham Sankey has confessed to carrying out the attack. They just tossed that aside."The family have said they will do everything in their power to clear Michael's name. Meanwhile, Liverpool Riverside MP Louise Ellman, has backed the family's campaign calling the incident a "travesty of justice"."Graham Sankey has admitted he was guilty of the crime that Michael Shields is now convicted of, but he did so in a way that was inadmissible to the Bulgarian court," added Mrs Ellman, who is planning to speak to his defence team.A British Foreign Office spokesman said it could not comment on the verdict but said it would continue offering consular help to Michael Shields.Bulgarian government officials have since agreed to begin the process of releasing Michael Shields, in exchange for the arrest of Graham Sankey.The development came after long-time justice campaigner Stephen Jakobi held closed talks with Bulgarian ambassador Lachezar Matev at the Bulgarian Embassy in London.Mr. Jakobi announced that Michael could be free in the next "few months"."It's been a good day and we have achieved an important breakthrough."We have got an agreement with the Bulgarian government that they are going to take up our proposed course of action - that is issuing an arrest warrant for Graham Sankey."The government is independent of the judiciary in that country but they can hold talks with them to get the ball rolling as soon as possible."The arrest warrant will means the extradition process will begin."Home Secretary Jack Straw has also agreed to meet with Shield's family to discuss the situation with them.At 7:26 p.m. local time on Thursday, the state of Tennessee, United States executed Edmund Zagorski. Zagorski had been convicted of killing two people in 1983. Mere minutes before his execution, the United States Supreme Court declined to hear his case.Zagorski asked for execution by electric chair instead of lethal injection, which made his case unusual.  Tennessee had last used the electric chair method for the 2007 execution of Daryl Holton."Faced with the choice of two unconstitutional methods of execution, Mr. Zagorski has indicated that if his execution is to move forward, he believes that the electric chair is the lesser of two evils," his legal counsel, Kelley Henry, said prior to the execution. Zargorski was convicted of luring two people into the woods and shooting them and slitting their throats under pretense of selling marijuana to them.With Zagorski, Tennessee has executed 134 people since 1916; two this year, following Billy Ray Irick.J.C.X Simon, one of the convicted 'Zebra Killers', has died at the age of 69 in San Quentin State Prison. His death came shortly before midnight on Thursday, with the cause remaining unknown. Simon was convicted alongside three others for the killing spree known as the 'Zebra Killings' in San Francisco in the 1970s. A statement released by prison officials said "The cause of death is unknown pending the results of an autopsy." Simon was found unresponsive in his single person cell.In total fourteen people were killed by Simon and three other assailants, all of whom were black. The murders took place in 1973 and 1974, with all of the victims being white and targeted purely on race. At least seven more victims were injured in the shootings, including future San Francisco mayor Art Agnos. According to Anthony C. Harris, the suspects were part of the 'Death Angels', an offshoot of the Nation of Islam. Harris was a key witness in the trial, who was alleged to have taken part in the hunt for white victims.Simon was convicted, and sentenced to life without parole, in 1976. The charges consisted of two counts of first-degree murder, conspiracy to commit first-degree murder, and assault with a deadly weapon. The other men convicted for the murders were Larry Green, Manuel Moore, and Jessie Lee Cooks. The three remaining convicts remain incarcerated without possibility of parole.Leonard Peltier, a Chippewa activist and member of the American Indian Movement who was convicted in 1977 of the murder of two FBI agents, has been denied parole. Peltier is serving two consecutive life sentences in the United States Penitentiary in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania. Peltier had been previously denied parole in 1993.Peltier, along with Robert Robideau and Darelle "Dino" Butler, was charged with the murders of FBI Special Agents Jack Coler and Ronald Williams after a shootout during unrest on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. Robideau and Butler were acquitted, the jury finding the shootings of Coler and Williams having been in self defense, but Peltier had fled the country and was tried separately on his return and found guilty.Peltier's attorney, Eric Seitz, stated that the announcement of Peltier's being denied parole was made without the courtesy of informing the defense, and noted that Peltier, currently 64 years of age, is in poor health with numerous complaints. U.S. Attorney Drew Wrigley, meanwhile, called Peltier "an unrepentant, cold-blooded murderer who executed FBI special agents" who is "exactly where he belongs — federal prison".Peltier has consistently denied that he murdered Coler and Williams and maintains that the FBI framed him. Supporters of his release include a wide range of world figures, including Nelson Mandela and the Dalai Lama and Amnesty International, while not classifying Peltier as a political prisoner, asserts that "there is concern about the fairness of the proceedings leading to his conviction and it is believed that political factors may have influenced the way the case was prosecuted."A statement from the FBI released after the announcement that Peltier would stay in jail reads, in part, "His callous criminal acts demonstrated a complete disrespect for human life and for the law. His time served in jail for their 1975 murders has not diminished the brutality of his crimes or the pain and sorrow felt by the families of his victims or the FBI family."Leonard Peltier is next eligible for parole in 2024.Virginia is poised to become the first U.S. state to require convicted sex offenders to report e-mail addresses and on-line identities to the state’s sex offender registry.Attorney General Bob McDonnell said Monday that he supports new reporting requirements of a legislative proposal expected to be introduced by Senator Ryan McDougle (Republican Party-Hanover County) for consideration by the Virginia General Assembly when it convenes in January. The legislation would help on-line social networking communities popular among youth groups, such as MySpace and Facebook, prevent sex offenders from using their sites."This legislation is an important recognition that the Internet has become a community as real as any other neighborhood and is in need of similar safeguards," officials of MySpace said in response to the announcement. Chief security officer Hemanshu Nigam of the 125-million-user MySpace site said the law would be "a landmark moment in the history of Internet safety."A U.S. national blacklist will be used by MySpace to ban registered sex offenders. A database called "Sentinel Safe", under development by Sentinel Tech Holding Corp., will be used to check national and state records. Nigam said, "Sentinel Safe will allow us to aggregate all publicly available sex offender databases into a real-time searchable form making it easy to cross-reference and remove known registered sex offenders from the MySpace community."In a TIME magazine article, reporter Matthew Cooper claimed he learned that Plame worked with the CIA through a conversation with Karl Rove. However, he denied that Rove directly named Valerie Plame. He also revealed that he discussed Plame with Lewis Libby, the deputy Chief of Staff for the U.S. Vice-President Dick Cheney.The revelation corroborates Rove's testimony to the grand jury, leaked to several news sources, that he learned of Plame's name from Robert Novak and another journalist (Rove testified that he cannot remember which one), and that he did tell Cooper in a later discussion that Joseph Wilson's wife worked for the CIA, though he testified he never mentioned Plame by name.In a Sunday MSNBC Meet the Press broadcast, Cooper said he secured a more specific written waiver from two sources, Rove and Libby, which led him to reverse his earlier refusal to cooperate with the federal grand jury investigation into the CIA disclosure of Plame. This second waiver was signed only hours prior to the contempt of court proceedings that would have put him in jail, the fate of the New York Times reporter Judith Miller who refused to reveal her sources to the same court. He said during the broadcast there were other White House sources as well, but declined during the interview to disclose their names.The waiver Cooper secured releases him from the secrecy of grand jury proceedings. He wrote a 1st person account of the conversation with Rove that was published Sunday on the TIME Online Edition. In a marketing move made by TIME, they turned the high interest in the story into an online money maker by charging $1.99 for access to the story. 6 print issues of the magazine come with the purchase.Three bomb explosions have hit London Underground trains, and a further bomb destroyed a bus in the city centre. The Metropolitan Police Service has initially confirmed that 33 people have been killed in the four explosions on London's transport system this morning, and said the overall number of wounded was as high as 700, in what are believed to be terrorist attacks.  (See later reports in the box at the side for later announcements made on following days.) The first reports were of an explosion at 08:49 BST (UTC+1) on the Hammersmith & City Line between Liverpool Street station and Aldgate East.  Explosions also occurred on a train between King's Cross and Russell Square and another at Edgware Road. The explosions are currently being reported, and described by Prime Minister Tony Blair, as being "terrorist attacks." Traces of explosives were found at two of the sites according to the BBC.Scotland Yard has confirmed one explosion onboard a double decker red London bus travelling south outside the British Medical Association on Tavistock Square. Police cannot confirm whether this bomb was intended for another train and accidentally detonated aboard the bus instead.Pundits are speculating the attack was co-ordinated by al-Qaeda. Dr. Shane Brighton, an intelligence expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defence, claims that, "If what we are looking at is a simultaneous bombing — and it does look like that — it would very certainly fit the classic al Qaeda methodology." Two militant Islamist groups are reported to have claimed responsibility for the blasts.An explosion on Friday in a hotel in Copenhagen could have been a terrorist attack, Danish officials said as the French-speaking suspect was remanded in custody.  The suspect protested his innocence.  Authorities "slightly" raised the country's terrorist alert level after the explosion.  The explosion caused only minor damage to a hotel bathroom, and no-one was killed or suffered serious injuries in the explosion.  Only the suspect suffered minor injuries.The suspect was arrested in a park after being seen running from the hotel. A remote-controlled robot was used to detach a pack from his waist, since authorities were concerned that it could contain explosives. The suspect's identity has not been fully established and he is refusing to cooperate with authorities, according to police. The man reportedly does not remember his name or his age, but speaks fluent English. The man denies initial charges of intending to harm others by an explosion and firearms possession. If he is found guilty, he could face life imprisonment. Jakob Scharf, head of the Danish Security and Intelligence Service (PET) said that "there are circumstances that point in the direction of a failed terror attack," adding that authorities "cannot exclude that there could be other suspects at large." The agency said that "due to this, we have taken a number of measures to protect potential terror targets and to sharpen the police's attention regarding suspect situations."Prime Minister Lars Loekke Rasmussen described the incident as "serious", adding that his government was closely monitoring developments. A retired head of the PET, Hans Joergen Bonnichsen, has said that there is a great deal of "uncertainty" surrounding the case. "The authorities prefer to be better safe than sorry. It can be anything between terror and a mentally unstable man." The "slightly raised" risk of a terror attack means that authorities will be more alert throughout the country. Police are attempting to determine what kind of explosives caused the explosion. Police have said they have so far found no other explosives in the hotel, although a gun was found. The hotel remains closed as police continue their investigation.The Council of the European Union voted yesterday to extend the term of copyright on sound recordings by twenty years, from 50 years to 70, preventing a number of early recordings of 1960s rock musicians including The Beatles from entering the public domain. The 1962 hit "Love Me Do" would have entered the public domain in 2012 if this legislation had not been introduced. EU member states have to enact the copyright extension within two years.The news was welcomed by representatives of the recording industry and by some recording artists. Cliff Richard has campaigned for term extension. Mick Jagger from the Rolling Stones said the decision was "obviously advantageous" to performers, and Bjorn Ulvaeus from Abba welcomed the continued control over the group's recordings: "Now I won't have to see Abba being used in a TV commercial". Geoff Taylor from the British Phonographic Industry said "[a]n exceptional period of British musical genius was about to lose its protection. As a matter of principle, it is right that our musicians should benefit from their creativity during their lifetimes, and that they should not be disadvantaged compared to musicians in other countries."Extension of the copyright term also has critics. Jim Killock, from the British digital rights advocacy group the Open Rights Group (ORG), said the move "puts money into the pockets of big labels" but will be "unlikely to benefit smaller artists and it will mean that a lot of sound recordings that are out of print will stay out of print". Singer Sandie Shaw, of the Featured Artists' Coalition, said the move would be "extremely good news for record companies and collection agencies, but bad news for artists" and would lead to artists having "20 more years in servitude to contracts that are no longer appropriate to a digital age".The extension to 70 years is less than that EU Commissioner Charlie McCreevy proposed in 2008. At that time, Wikinews interviewed Eddan Katz of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) and Becky Hogge, then Executive Director of ORG, in Brussels. The two organisations were gathering like-minded groups to oppose harmonisation with the US's 95-year term. Characterising the sought extension as "Cliff Richard's pension", Hogge asserted, "[w]hat you've got at the end of the day with copyright term extension is basically [...] rent seeking by special interest groups lobbying governments to change the law in order that they may economically gain directly."Two reviews of intellectual property rights in Britain have concluded it would not be economically beneficial to extend copyright terms on sound recordings. The Gowers Review of Intellectual Property in 2006 concluded extension of the copyright term would "negatively impact upon consumers and industry". The Hargreaves Review of Intellectual Property and Growth in 2011 concluded it would be "economically detrimental". A study conducted by Bournemouth University's Center for Intellectual Property Policy and Management concluded 72% of the economic benefits of the term extension would go to record labels, with 28% going to artists, only 4% of which are going to less successful artists.Schappelle Corby has been told by an Indonesian court that her 20 year sentence for allegedly smuggling drugs into Indonesia would be reinstated following an appeal attempt. Her lawyers had previously been successful in reducing her sentence to 15 years.Indonesian police allege that Corby smuggled 4.1Kg of marajuana hidden in a body board bag into Bali. Corby has maintained that the drugs did not belong to her and must have been placed in her bag between Brisbane, Sydney and Bali.Australian baggage handlers had been caught using passenger's luggage to distribute illegal drugs.Judges rejected her appeal last week, reinstating her original sentence at the same time.The Indonesian supreme court has ordered that the drugs be destroyed, signalling that it is the end of any possible future appeal attempts.Another twist has emerged in the Corby story with her 18 year old half brother arrested yesterday on charges of producing and possessing a dangerous drug, deprivation of liberty and assault occasioning bodily harm.Corby's lawyer Hotman Paris Hutapea said that the development had "totally ruined his case". Speaking before discovering Corby's original sentence had been reinstated said he feared the development involving Corby's half brother, James Kisina, would ruin his attempts to free Schapelle.Corby's Balinese lawyer, Erwin Siregar, disagrees with Mr Paris claiming the arrest could provide evidence to reopen her case if there is any proof or statements that the marijuana she was caught with belonged to her half-brother.In court today, Kisina claimed that he was seeking to obtain information from known drug dealers in Brisbane which could assist in Corby's appeal.John Patrick Ford, the  Australian prisoner who testified at  Schapelle Corby’s Bali drug trafficking trial, has been convicted of 11 charges relating to the rape and assault of a woman.Ford’s trial was postponed to allow him to travel to Bali in the custody of  Australian Federal Police officers to testify that he had overheard a jailhouse confession. Ford alleged he had heard another prisoner claim ownership of the  marijuana found in Corby’s possession. He told the Balinese court that Corby was the victim of an Australian domestic inter-airport drug-smuggling operation. She is currently serving a 20-year prison term after being convicted in that case.   In December 2005, a County Court jury convicted Ford of 11 charges, including rape, intentionally causing injury, threatening to inflict serious injury, false imprisonment, aggravated burglary, burglary, making threats to kill and stalking, but a suppression order issued by the court prevented publication of the convictions until the pre-sentencing hearing on Friday, January 27, 2006. Ford’s lawyer, Tom Danos, told the hearing that Corby had written to Ford thanking him for risking his own welfare by agreeing to testify. Danos urged the court to be lenient in sentencing Ford, claiming that his victim had effectively forgiven him for his crimes and that he deserved a lighter sentence for co-operating with authorities investigating the Corby case.Ford has been attacked twice in jail since testifying at Corby’s Bali trial. Since returning from Bali in March, 2005, Ford has remained in protective custody, to prevent further attacks. Danos claimed that this would make any jail sentence particularly difficult for his client.County Court Judge Margaret Rizkalla adjourned the pre-sentencing hearing to a date yet to be set.In Wamsutter, Wyoming, US, a fire crew were trying to put out a fire of a wine truck on a highway when they received an unexpected surprise.Wine corks started to burst out of the wreckage as bottles started to explode from the heat. Wyoming Highway Patrol Lt. Scott Keane said: "The corks were popping out of the bottles like the old  Jiffy Pop (popcorn) we grew up with. My trooper got hit in the arm with one."But luckily, as Keane commented, no one was killed or seriously injured and the truck driver managed to escape the fire, which occurred on Thursday after a crash on Interstate 80.The intensity of the fire caused the tires on the trailer to melt down and the trailer to burn down to its wheel axles, damaging 75 feet of pavement in the process. Keane stated that the cause of the fire was likely to be either a locked brake or a hub malfunction.  It is currently unknown what the value of the loss in the fire was.  The Wyoming Department of Transportation have commented that there was nothing left of the cab or trailer and the remaining bottles of wine from Oregon and Washington had disappeared overnight.Police have bailed the driver of a coach which crashed on Tuesday in Cornwall, England, killing two people.The driver was arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving following fatal injury of two elderly women when the coach reportedly hit a wall. A further seven passengers, seriously injured in the crash, were hospitalised.Devon and Cornwall Police reported being alerted to the incident, about three miles (five kilometres) from the town of Looe, at approximately 1:00pm local time (1200 UTC) on Tuesday. The force arrested the 57-year-old male coach driver from Exeter on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving. He has been released on bail.The cause of the crash is not yet known although police say they are investigating the incident, in which no vehicle other than the coach was involved. The passengers were travelling on a coach trip from Exmouth to Looe with Age UK.Victorian State Coroner Graeme Johnstone has ruled that former Australian Prime Minister Harold Holt drowned in the surf at Cheviot Beach on December 17, 1967. Mr Holt was swimming at the beach, known for its dangerous currents, when he disappeared. Numerous theories have circulated since to explain the disappearance, including one that believed he was abducted by a Chinese submarine.No formal inquiry was held at the time, because the law at the time stated that coroners could not investigate unless there was a body. This law was changed in 1985. Mr. Johnstone said that the lack of inquiry meant that much information was not released to the public, which may have contributed to the development of the conspiracy theories."Unfortunately, there was no open inquiry at the time so this detailed material did not become general public knowledge," he said, adding, "A simple reading of the original investigative material provides the real and credible explanation."Mr. Holt's son said that the family believed all along that Holt had drowned."Myself and the other family members have always thought that it was simply a matter of him going for a swim when he shouldn't," he said.According to The Times, Michael Jackson was the victim of a homicide. The Los Angeles County Coroner has concluded Jackson died from a lethal overdose of sedatives. It has been revealed that Jackson was probably killed by an overdose of propofol. His doctor, Conrad Murray, is under investigation for manslaughter.Murray told the Los Angeles Police Department that for the six weeks prior to the singer's death he had administered a 50 milligram dose of the drug every night to help Jackson to sleep. He had begun to cut back on the dose after fearing Jackson was becoming addicted and for two days before the death gave him only lorazepam and midazolam.On the day of his death, Murray said, he injected Jackson with lorazepam, then administered midazolam amongst other drugs. Finally, he gave in to Jackson's insistence upon propofol, giving him 25 milligrams before going to the toilet. Upon his return, Jackson was no longer breathing. Investigators have not been able to trace any records of propofol purchases by the doctor. It is also reported that another doctor had previously been approached by Jackson and asked to sell him the drug, but that doctor refused.A coroner's inquest hearing ruled on Monday, April 10, that Tom Hurndall, a 22 year old man from north London, England, was intentionally killed by an Israeli on soldier April 22, 2003. Mr. Hurndall died nine months later from the single gunshot wound to the head.  On Thursday April 6, the same court decided that the award-winning cameraman James Miller, 34, was also intentionally shot in the neck by an Israeli sniper three weeks previous to the Hurndall shooting. Both men were shot within a mile of each other near Rafa in the Gaza strip.The cases were presided over by Dr Andrew Reid, who said he would be writing to the UK Attorney General Lord Goldsmith to see if there was any further legal action which could be taken in relation to the deaths of Tom Hurndall and James Miller. The five man, five woman jury at Saint Pancras Coroners Court in north London complained of a lack of cooperation by the Israeli authorities in their investigation of both cases. Saying in their verdict of the Hurndall case that "The jury would like to express its dismay with the lack of cooperation from the Israeli authorities", and, in the Miller verdict "It is a fact that from day one the Israeli authorities have not been forthcoming in the investigation into the circumstances surrounding Mr Miller's death.” The Israelis originally put out statements claiming that opposition forces shot both men and that Mr. Hurndall was wearing camouflage gear when he was shot. However images by a South African photographer showed him unconscious and bleeding heavily moments after being shot, he was dressed in casual clothes but wearing bright orange trousers and a vest top. Mr Hurndall, a Manchester Metropolitan University journalism and photography student, who had entered Gaza from Jordan with the International Solidarity Movement (ISM). had described being "shot at, gassed and chased by soldiers" in the war-torn Gaza strip in the days preceding his fatal shooting. The inquest reveled that just before he was killed shots were fired from an IDF watchtower, causing Palestinians children to flee. One child froze and Mr Hurndall went to help but was shot in the head.  Sergeant Taysir Hayb was convicted of manslaughter by an Israeli court and jailed for eight years for shooting him.James Miller was killed on his last day of work on a HBO film titled "Death in Gaza" a documentary about the impact of violence upon children in the conflict zone which has gone on to win three Emmys and a Bafta. He was reportedly filming Palestinian children throwing stones at Israeli tanks in Rafah at the time. The shooting was described as "slow, deliberate, calculated and aimed". He was approaching soldiers from the IDF (Israeli Defense Force) while holding a white flag when he was shot by Lieutenant Hib al Haib of the Bedouin Desert Reconnaissance Unit.British Legislator, Gerald Kaufman said Tuesday, sanctions must be imposed against Israel if it does not hand over officers and troops suspected of being responsible for the killing of the two British men.The corpse of former Cypriot President Tassos Papadopoulos has been stolen by grave robbers. Officials report that his body was taken overnight from the Deftera Cemetery in Nicosia. The theft was reported one day before the anniversary of his death. Police reported that fresh mounds of dirt were piled up beside the grave. The motive is still unclear. The leader of the Diko party, Papadopoulos’s former alliance, released a statement.  Marios Garoyan called the act a  "heinous and terrible crime". A heavy smoker, Papadopoulos died on the 12th of December, 2008 after a battle with lung cancer. He was the President of Cyprus from the 23rd of February, 2003 until 23 February 2008.Deputy Tourism Minister Frederico Silva da Costa was among 33 Brazilian tourism ministers and officials arrested for embezzlement of public funds on Tuesday. The operation extended across Brasilia, Sao Paulo and Macapa.The arrests were made following an operation involving up to 200 police officers. Five wanted officials remain at large. Federal Police allege the officials were involved in a scheme that has the potential to destabilise the 2014 FIFA World Cup and 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.The group are said to have used up to R$3.05 million (US$1.88 million,£1.16 million)—allocated in government funding to train almost 2000 taxi drivers, waiters and hotel staff in the lead-up to the events—for private gain.Federal Police say they intend to charge all 38 (including the five not yet apprehended) with criminal associations, fraud and embezzlement. If found guilty, they face up to twelve years imprisonment.This is the latest in a string of corruption scandals throughout the nation, which saw Transport Minister Alfredo Nascimento and thirty colleagues resign in July, while a senior Agriculture minister was sacked. A further scandal claimed the President’s chief of staff earlier this year.President Dilma Rousseff wrote in "Conversation with the President"—her weekly column—that "[i]t looks like corruption is increasing, but what really is increasing is the investigation and identification of criminals".The arrests follow 63 similar anti-corruption operations carried out last year by Federal Police in conjunction with government organisations.The nation now faces an uphill battle to be ready in time for the commencement of the 2014 FIFA World Cup, and the 2016 Olypmic Games.Monday morning, around 11:30 a.m. CDT (UTC-5) a home in Chicago suburb, Lake in the Hills, Illinois, was raided. The FBI Counterterrorism Division conducted the search of the house on the 5700 block of McKenzie Drive, while local police, hazmat team, bomb squad, and fire department were all on the scene.Edward Bachner—who lives in the house with wife, Rebecca—was arrested earlier in the day in Algonquin, where he purchased a "small quantity" of tetrodotoxin (TTX) from an undercover agent. The FBI says the sting operation began when Bachner tried to buy 95 milligrams of TTX over the Internet by falsely stating that he was a doctor conducting research. Alarmed at the large quantity, an employee contacted the FBI. In his order for TTX he called himself Edmond Backer of EB Strategic Research, both determined to be fake by the FBI.Bachner was arraigned in federal court in Rockford and charged with possession of a toxin, a felony that can carry a prison sentence of up to ten years. It remains unclear why Bachner sought to acquire TTX.Tetrodotoxin is found in nature, most famously in the pufferfish, but also other marine animals, who use it as a defensive weapon. As a toxin, TTX is extremely deadly to humans. Just over one-half of a milligram (0.000018 oz) can kill a person. This makes it more than 1000 times deadlier than cyanide.The British Countryside Alliance has lost its legal bid to keep hunting with hounds after the High Court rejected their appeal, which had been made on the grounds that the Parliament Act 1949 was invalid. The High Court rejected this, ruling that the 1949 Act was valid. This means hunting with dogs for foxes, hares and badgers will be illegal from Friday 18 February in England and Wales in accordance with the Hunting Act 2004.The Countryside Alliance has said it is challenging the decision in the House of Lords (the highest court in English Law) and the European Court of Human Rights.The RSPCA has said the arguments were “wafer thin”. However the CA as said that the police would have difficulty in policing the law. The League Against Cruel Sports has said it is setting up a “crimewatch service” to police the ban.A case is currently being tried in England over the alleged assault of a 'Goth' couple, resulting in the death of the female victim. A fifteen-year-old youth, who was one of a gang of five, is charged with having kicked and stamped the 20-year-old woman to death in Stubby Lee Park, Bacup, Rossendale in Lancashire on the 11 August 2007. The couple; Robert Maltby, an art student, 21 and Sophie Lancaster, 20; became engaged in an initially civil conversation with the drunken gang while walking in the park. The attack began with a kick to the head of the male victim by the accused 15-year-old. the gang then continued to kick and stamp on Robert Maltby while laughing and encouraging each other. As Miss Lancaster begged the gang to stop beating her boyfriend they turned on her. The jury were played a recording of a 999 call made shortly after the attack by an eye witness. In the recording, a girl is heard sobbing and crying who details the attack and pleads: "We need, we need an ambulance at Bacup Park, this mosher's just been banged because he's a mosher." referring to the attack on Robert Maltby.This motive was referred to by Michael Shorrock QC during the prosecution: "It would appear that [they] were singled out, not for anything they had said or done, but because they dressed differently to the defendant and his friend".Miss Lancaster sustained such extensive injuries that on the arrival of the paramedics they were unable to determine her gender. The couple were taken to hospital where both victims fell in to comas. Robert Maltby regained consciousness and survived his injuries but Sophie Lancaster died two weeks later.The youth denies the charge but admits to causing grievous bodily harm with intent. Three other youths, two aged seventeen and one sixteen have been remanded in custody by Judge Anthony Russell QC after admitting to playing a part in the attack. They will face sentencing after the trial of the fifteen-year-old.Protests erupted on Wednesday in Meerut, north-east of New Delhi, as scenes of female cops beating and pulling the hair of young couples in a local park were telecasted on news channels.People crowded the streets to protest against the actions which the local police termed as law enforcement.'Operation Majnu' as it was termed was aimed at breaking up frolicking couples at Company Gardens on Monday afternoon. Chief of Police Meerut said that the police entrusted to enforce a drive against obscenity had clearly gone overboard.Two policewomen have been suspended and an internal inquiry has been ordered. The two were named as Inspector Madhu Malati and sub-inspector Mamata Gautam who were most active in the physical assault carried out on the women.The targets of the assault were not satisfied. One of the women, aged 25, was taking a walk in the park with her brother when Inspector Madhu Malati descended on her calling her a whore and beating her up. Priyanka was kicked in the chest and slapped numerous times on her face just like dozens of other women who, after being beaten up were dragged to vehicles waiting to take them to the police station where their parents were called.  They were later released after warnings.Students spilled onto the streets of Meerut shouting "Down with Police Dictatorship" and set fire to effigies of cops.After the public humilation of being beaten up, abused and dragged to the police station to make statements, several couples did not make their way back home and are still reported to be missing.Members of Parliament said this was the sign of a sick mind. News reports have quoted the Meerut Police range DIG as admitting to extreme and excessive treament by the police in Operation Majnu carried out in the company gardens on Monday.One angry student protester said that this is a sign of hypocrisy and that India cannot be the country with the second largest population in the world if people sitting together in this country is such a sin.2006 Tour de France champion Floyd Landis will be stripped of his title after test results revealed, Friday, the cyclist used synthetic testosterone during the competition.Landis may also face a two year ban, even though he has repeatedly denied using any performance-enhancing drugs.The final option that would salvage Landis' title is to file an appeal with the Court of Arbitration for Sport. He has one month to file the appeal.If Landis is not able to save his title, he will be the first person in over 105 years to lose the title because of a drug charge.U.S. Anti-Doping Agency CEO Travis Tygart said, "Today's ruling is a victory for all clean athletes and everyone who values fair and honest competition."Landis said, "This ruling is a blow to athletes and cyclists everywhere...For the Panel to find in favor of USADA when, with respect to so many issues, USADA did not manage to prove even the most basic parts of their case shows that this system is fundamentally flawed. I am innocent, and we proved I am innocent."The Chief Constable of South Yorkshire Police in England, Meredydd Hughes, was found guilty of speeding at Wrexham Magistrates Court today and banned from driving.  He was caught driving at 90 mph where the speed limit was 60 mph.  Wrexham Magistrates court disqualified Hughes from driving for 42 days and fined him £350.The Chief Constable did not appear in court in person, but was represented by his solicitor, Huw Edwards.  Mr Edwards said:"He doesn't seek to make any excuse about this matter. He totally accepts that the police have a duty to do.  He is no exception and he accepts that he must be punished for the offence.""He asks me to apologise for the offence. He recognises that the matter is a serious matter." Hughes had already received six penalty points on his license from previous speeding convictions and a conviction for failing to identify the speeding driver of one of his force's vehicles in 2006, although his driving licence was free of points at the time he went to court.  Wrexham Magistrates Court had adjourned the case to today from a date in late November, as Meredydd Hughes initially claimed that he has still not yet found a solicitor to represent him.Matthew Elliot, the Chief Executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, criticized Hughes for wasting Court time at the taxpayer's expense. "Meredydd Hughes has shown breathtaking hypocrisy in this case," said Elliot. "Not only has he been caught preaching one thing and doing another in the past, but he has also wasted court time and therefore taxpayers’ money."Jools Townsend, speaking for the Road Safety Campaign group Brake, said the offence was "Shocking" and the sentence "lenient" - and that the Chief Constable should "Seriously consider his position as a result".The incident is embarrassing for South Yorkshire Police, as Hughes was the Chair of ACPO's road policing enforcement committee, with responsibility for developing police policies about how speed cameras are used.  Hughes is a supporter of mobile speed cameras and believes that all speed cameras should be deliberately hidden from motorists, and has given interviews on the importance of road safety management in businesses.Scientology was convicted of organized fraud in France, in a ruling issued on Tuesday by a court in Paris. According to French law the Scientology organization is regarded as a sect in the country, and not a religion. The organization is heavily monitored by the government of Germany, and has been prosecuted in multiple other countries as well.The Scientology "Celebrity Centre" in France was fined 400,000 euros, and a Scientology bookstore received a fine of 200,000 euros. According to the verdict of the French court, the Scientology organization was found guilty of taking advantage of its followers, and of "commercial harassment" of potential new members.Alain Rosenberg, the head of Scientology in the country, received a fine of 30,000 euros in addition to a suspended prison term of two-years. There were six total defendants. Three other officials within the Scientology organization received convictions of organized fraud, in addition to suspended prison terms ranging from 10 months to two years in duration. The remaining two defendants in the case received fines of 1,000 and 2,000 euros. "This is an important and historic decision because it is the first time that Scientology has been found guilty of involvement in organized fraud," said Olivier Morice, a lawyer for the civil parties to the case.Members of Scientology have been convicted of fraud in past in France, in Lyon in 1997 and Marseille in 1999. Scientology claims 45,000 adherents in France out of 12 million worldwide.Prosecutors in the case had asked the French court to fine the Scientology organization 2 million euros, and also to order its operations to cease in the country. The court did not rule for the organization to be dissolved in France, explaining that Scientology would have likely continued its operations  "outside any legal framework".Unlike the United States, where Scientology is considered a religion and therefore has a tax-exempt status, there is no such recognition or status for the Church in France, where it is considered a sect. Furthermore, a recently passed French law forbids French courts of dissolving groups on the basis of fraud. In response to the law, Georges Fenech, head of the Inter-ministerial Unit to Monitor and Fight Cults, speaking on the television channel France 24 said, "It is very regrettable that the law quietly changed before the trial. The system has now been put in place by parliament and it is certain that in the future, if new offences are committed, a ban could eventually be pronounced."The legal representative of the Church of Scientology in France, Eric Roux, said the church will appeal the verdict citing intense media and political pressure during the trial. However, he also praised the verdict saying, "The court said that in France, Scientology should continue. And on that point they are very right. This is the fair part of the verdict. That would end any odd idea that the church should end in France. Scientology is recognized everywhere in the world and France must step up to international standards. That is good for the church."A court in Istanbul has issued an order to block all access to YouTube in Turkey, after a series of insults between Greek and Turkish users of the site escalated. The largest internet provider and privatised state company, Türk Telekom, has put the order into effect, while some smaller internet providers still allow access to the site.Internet users accessing via Turk Telecom get a message in Turkish saying "Access to this site has been denied by court order! ..." and in Turkish and English "Access to www.youtube.com site has been suspended in accordance with decision no: 2007/384 dated 06.03.2007 of Istanbul First Criminal Peace Court."The row between Turkish and Greek YouTube users started when Greek videos claimed that Atatürk, the founder of the Turkish state, and the Turkish people, were homosexual. There were also profanities on the Turkish flag. A Turkish user responded saying that Greece was the birth place of homosexuality. The dispute received a lot of attention in the Turkish media, which they labelled a "virtual war".YouTube agreed to take down the offending videos, but nonetheless the prosecutor in Istanbul got a court order, based on charges of insulting Atatürk, which is illegal in Turkey. YouTube responded that it had taken down the videos and was cooperating with the government, adding that "While technology can bring great opportunity and access to information globally, it can also present new and unique cultural challenges."Article 301 of the Turkish penal code, which makes insulting Turkishness a crime in Turkey, received a lot of attention because it resulted in the prosecution of intellectuals like Literature Nobel Prize Winner Orhan Pamuk and murdered journalist Hrant Dink.The European Commission has shown concern over the law article, and Turkey has pledged to revise it. Turkey wants to join the European Union but the negotiations have not been without obstacles so far, for example in the field of freedom of expression.Worcester Crown Court in England, UK has yesterday jailed a policeman after he abandoned two men unconscious on a freezing night, one of whom died. David Driver of Gloucestershire Constabulary also lied about the state he found the pair in.Driver, who admitted misconduct in a public office and perverting the course of justice, has already resigned from his position as a constable. In February last year he discovered Steven Hathaway and another man apparently asleep in Bourton-on-the-Water, but failed to help them, whilst patrolling in the early hours of the morning. Ten minutes later, a member of the public found them and dialed the 999 emergency number.Two different police officers were on-scene by 1:50 a.m. and they were able to rouse one of the men; Hathaway's pulse could not be found. Nineteen minutes later an ambulance joined the scene, but its crew too were unable to revive Hathaway and a paramedic declared him dead at 2:35 a.m. on February 19.Following the emergency call a control room requested police officers assist; five were present in nearby Stow Police Station and heard this, amongst them Driver. According to three officers, Driver said he had already seen and tried to wake the men but left them there when he could not. These officers reported this and Driver was placed on restricted duties pending a misconduct investigation. The Independent Police Complaints Commission launched an investigation.A post mortem would later reveal Hathaway, 25, had consumed alcohol, steroids and opiates. A contributing factor was identified in the cold weather. Driver gave a statement saying he spoke to both men, helped Hathaway to his feet and watched the duo walk away. Later, he confessed to inventing this and a notebook entry saying the same thing. He would also claim a sergeant forced him to make claims regarding the night's events; the sergeant in question denies this.Driver also lied by claiming he had not been trained in how to respond to drunken, incapacitated people when the force was able to demonstrate he had, and by saying he had not examined the electronic police log's entry on the death. In reality, log records show he examined it repeatedly later the same morning. In light of this evidence, the Crown Prosecution Service decided to charge him and he was suspended. He resigned upon admitting the offences."This police officer owed a duty of care to the public and failed to exercise it when he found two young men unconscious on a very cold night," said IPCC Commissioner Rebecca Marsh. "He compounded this by repeatedly lying about the events of that night and offered a false account of his actions." In sentencing Driver for what was described as "panic borne of stupidity", Judge Alistair McCreath told him "[t]his young man may have been beyond help, but what you did was to create a risk of death or real harm." Gloucestershire Constabulary's Assistant Chief Constable Kevin Lambert apologised to Hathaway's family outside the court and said force procedure had been reviewed in light of the death. Marsh praised the actions of the trio of officers who reported Driver's actions.Driver was sentenced to twelve months in prison.The Ontario Court of Appeal yesterday has reaffirmed Ontario's right to negotiate with Six Nations protesters on the disputed Douglas Creek Estates, a housing development, which was bought by the province, in Caledonia, Ontario.The decision says that the attorney general and the OPP will decide if new proceedings will be launched against the protesters. The court decision also allows the protesters to continue occuping the land. It said Six Nations protesters are no longer occupying the land illegally because the Ontario government now owns the land and will let protesters continue, and that talks with both levels of government have "restored a measure of peace to the community.""Ontario is content to permit the peaceful occupation of its property," the decision reads. "It has the right to do so. As a property owner it has the right to use its own land as it sees fit."Caledonia Mayor Marie Trainer said the decision shows that aboriginals are above the law. Mayor Trainer also said that she hoped the court of appeal would upheld a lower court order to halt negotiations with the province and federal government until protesters cleared the disputed land."It shows two rules of law -- you and I couldn't stay there illegally but they [the aboriginals] apparently can. That's what's irritating for everyone," Trainer said. "It's frustrating, especially when it's illegal."Premier Dalton McGuinty said he was glad that the court reaffirmed the province's right to continue talks with protesters. He also added that the dispute is a federal issue."We are now waiting for the federal government to bring a substantive proposal to the table that would involve a number of aspects related to this land claim, including the use of this specific parcel," McGuinty said.The Caledonia land dispute has been going on since February 28 and still has not been resolved. The native protesters occupied the Douglas Creek Estates, southwest of Hamilton, saying that the property belongs to them.Two court filings in response to a lawsuit brought by Nebraska State Senator Ernie Chambers were filed on behalf of God, according to John Friend, clerk of the Douglas County District Court in Omaha, Nebraska.  "This one miraculously appeared on the counter. It just all of a sudden was here -- poof!" said Mr. Friend. In one filing, St. Michael the Archangel is listed as a witness.The response argues that the defendant is not subject to the jurisdiction and laws of the court.  According to the response read by Friend, God said, "I created man and woman with free will and next to the promise of immortal life, free will is my greatest gift to you."Reports say that the papers were filed by "King Cobra", a lawmaker in Nebraska.Chambers had sued God for "widespread death, destruction and terrorization of millions upon millions of the Earth's inhabitants." Chambers, an agnostic, argues that his lawsuit is "frivolous" and "anybody can sue anybody."Detroit — Nearly half a million motorists in Detroit alone have an opportunity to settle their delinquent traffic tickets at half the cost under an amnesty program that began April 1st — and they’d be fools not to take advantage of it.That was the message recently from judges and administrators of the ten Wayne County District Courts taking part in the 2009 Traffic Ticket Amnesty Program from April 1st through April 30th. "It provides an opportunity for citizens to take care of their traffic tickets, get their licenses back and generate revenue for Detroit," said 36th District Court Administrator Otis Davis.He said there are more than 450,000 delinquent tickets out of 36th District Court alone.The last time the 36th District Court offered an amnesty program was in 2002. At that time, the court collected $3 million in outstanding fines and netted $1 million for the city. Prior to 2002, the last amnesty program was in 1993. Chief Judge Marylin Atkins of the 36th District Court said her court tries to offer the amnesty program every 10 years, "but because of the economy, we decided to do it this year."As with a General Motors buyout, Atkins said this offer will not be extended. "We’re going to work with you, but you have to come in and see us during April," she said, "because after that, we will come after you with the full force of the law."Atkins’s court is offering a 50 percent reduction on the city fine, the state and ordinance late fees, the D36 cost and the late penalty on all civil infraction tickets. The tickets must be in default status or had a judgment from January 1, 2002, through December 31, 2008. Parking tickets are not included in the 36th District Court program.Nine other district courts are participating. They are 17th District Court, Redford; 18th District Court, Westland; 21st District Court, Garden City; 24th District Court, Allen Park and Melvindale; 28th District Court, Southgate; 29th District Court, Wayne; 31st District Court, Hamtramck; Grosse Pointe Park Municipal Court; and 33rd District Court, Woodhaven.The amnesty program varies among the courts. In Grosse Pointe Park, parking tickets are included, according to court administrator Karen Albrecht."In 2002, we got a lot of calls asking why we weren’t taking part in the program," Albrecht explained. She said only Grosse Pointe Park among the five Grosse Pointe communities was taking part in the amnesty program.Judge Richard Hammer of the 21st District Court in Garden City encouraged individuals with outstanding tickets to call their respective courts to get the details of their participation in the program. "We are fairly certain a great number of people are good, honest citizens who cannot get out from under their tickets," he said. Judge John T. Courtright of the 24th District Court in Allen Park and Melvindale concurred. "I would encourage all the citizens to take advantage of the program," he said.Payable parking tickets are included in the 24th District Court's amnesty offer and are also reduced in Wayne, Woodhaven, Allen Park, Melvindale and Redford. Judge Atkins in Detroit said her court does not have authority to reduce parking tickets.Judge Hammer said violators do not have to be residents of the city in which their tickets were issued in order to take advantage of the amnesty program. "Anyone coming to the same court will get the same treatment," he said.In some cases, the savings to motorists could be substantial. In Westland, for example, the 18th District Court will waive the $35 default late fee, the $50 warrant cost and the 20 percent late fee on eligible cases.In all courts, however, individuals who have had their licenses suspended must pay the $45 clearance fee to the State of Michigan. And in most, if not all, cases, adjusted fines must be paid in full. In most courts, credit cards, certified checks and money orders are accepted."While some other jurisdictions may be giving payment [plans], this court is not," Atkins said of the 36th District Court. "This is a one-shot deal. Bring your money in before April 30."Individuals who appear at their court to address violations covered under the program will not be arrested upon their voluntary appearance.The judges and court administrators agreed that sometimes people get buried by fines and cannot climb their way out, especially under the current economic conditions. "We find for some people their fines and fees just keep getting added on and on, and a person cannot pay a ticket even though they might have been able to otherwise," said Judge Courtwright of Allen Park.Motorists may call (313) 967-7400 or visit the 36th District Court's Website for more detailed information regarding each court participating in the amnesty program.Photos showing Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (FLDS) leader Warren Jeffs with child brides were entered into evidence Friday in a Texas court case involving children seized from the Yearning For Zion (YFZ) Ranch by State authorities in April. Texas officials removed over 400 children from the Eldorado, Texas YFZ Ranch in early April on suspicion of widespread child abuse.The photos were entered into evidence as part of the case in Tom Green County District Court. Officials claim there is a "pervasive pattern" of underage girls forced into marriage with older men. The photos show Warren Jeffs kissing and hugging young girls, and attorneys for Texas Child Protective Services claim that one of the girls shown in the photos is a 12-year old "bride". The photos are dated from July 2006 and January 2005.The State of Texas is seeking custody of a baby boy born to Louisa Bradshaw and her "husband" Dan Jessop. According to the Deseret News, Jessop was asked if he thought the photos of Jeffs and the girls was evidence of sexual abuse, to which he responded, "I do not consider a girl kissing a man sex abuse." Child Protective Services lawyers told the court that the photos show Jeffs kissing the girls similar to "how a husband kisses a wife". Deseret News reported that Protective Services lawyers did not say how the images of Jeffs were obtained, but said that the photos illustrate a culture of abuse at the compound. According to CNN, information revealed in court shows that one of the girls in the photos is an aunt to the children involved in the Texas custody hearing and lived on the YFZ Ranch. CNN reports that the girl's birth date was given as July 1994 and she is 13 years old. She was taken into state custody by Texas officials along with other children in April.ABC News reported that an alleged child bride shown in the photographs was set to give testimony in court, but state attorneys and FLDS representatives came to a resolution and agreed that Protective Services would retain custody of Louisa Bradshaw's baby. The baby was born in Texas state custody. Bradshaw was initially taken into custody as well because authorities thought she was under age, but it has since been revealed that she is over the age of 18. According to ABC News Bradshaw will remain with her baby in a shelter. Protective Services said that Bradshaw and Jessop lived in the same building as the 12-year old girl shown in the photographs with Jeffs. Jeffs is seen in one set of photos from January 26, 2005 labeled "First anniversary" with a girl called "Loretta". In another set dated July 27, 2005, Jeffs is shown with a girl referred to as "Merrianne". Child Protective Services officials said that they have evidence that "Merrianne" was 12 years old when she was married to Jeffs at the YFZ compound. The Vancouver Sun reported that, per a family member, "Loretta" was no older than 12 when she was married. Portions from the set of photos were displayed at media sites including Radar Online, CNN, FOX News, National Nine News and ABC News, and the website The Smoking Gun made three of the court exhibits available for viewing.In a statement made Tuesday to CNN, Salt Lake City, Utah attorney and spokesman for FLDS families Rod Parker said the photos were an effort by Child Protective Services to "get publicity" and "paint everybody with the same brush". "What I'm saying is, that isn't fair, and each parent of each family is entitled to stand on its own. And these photos have no ties to this particular family in a way that's relevant to these proceedings," said Parker."I'm sure law enforcement in several states will take a look to see what more can be done," said Utah Attorney General's Office Paul Murphy in a statement to ABC News. Murphy said that investigators may look further into the photographs to determine if evidence shows the girls were abused, and if so where, before charges could be brought. "Everyone who saw those photos did a complete gasp. I think they're shocking," he said.In a ruling made last week in a case involving 38 FLDS mothers and 124 children, the Texas 3rd District Court of Appeals said that the state did not have the right to remove those children from the compound. The appeals court said that Child Protective Services was unable to prove that the children in the compound were at risk of immediate physical harm. Texas law states that "a danger to the physical health or safety of the child which was caused by an act or failure to act of the person entitled to possession and for the child to remain in the home is contrary to the welfare of the child" must be shown in order to remove that child from the home. Texas Department of Family and Protective Services filed court papers Wednesday asserting that FLDS families may flee the state if they are reunited with their children after the Texas appeals court ruling. Protective Services officials are worried that if the families leave the court's jurisdiction, children could be at risk of abuse. In response, attorneys for mothers of the children in custody filed a counter-motion. The mothers claim that the children are under "continuing, irreparable harm every day that they are separated from their parents".Warren Jeffs was convicted in September 2007 of two counts of being an accomplice to rape related to a 2001 wedding he arranged between a 14-year old girl and her 19-year old cousin. He was sentenced to two consecutive five-year prison sentences in Utah, and faces an impending trial in Arizona on eight charges including sexual conduct with a minor, incest and conspiracy.The FLDS group has approximately 10,000 members total, and was founded in the 1930s. It split from the The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) after the LDS Church abandoned the practice of polygamy in 1890.File:PolanskiIFFKV.jpgSuperior Court Judge Peter Espinoza has today rejected a motion by lawyers for French film director Roman Polanski to have charges of unlawful sex with a child dismissed.In 1977, Polanski was arrested charged with sodomy, sexual assault and rape of a 13-year-old girl at Jack Nicholson's house in California, United States.Polanski agreed to plead guilty to unlawful sex with a child, often called statutory rape, in exchange for having the more serious charges dropped.However, in 1978, before his sentencing, Polanski fled the United States. He has since been a fugitive and faces arrest if he sets foot on US soil. France refuses to extradite him.Polanski's lawyers argued that there were irregularities and misconduct in the original handling of the case. While the Judge agreed, he rejected the notion that the charges should be dismissed on the grounds that Polanski cannot challenge the ruling while on the run as a fugitive.A recent revelation by American actor John Travolta in court testimony during an ongoing extortion case in The Bahamas that his late son Jett suffered from autism, has stirred debate and controversy over the disease. News media and critics have questioned whether Travolta and his wife Kelly Preston should have acknowledged Jett's illness sooner. In response to comments made Tuesday about the recent events on the ABC television program The View, the National Autism Association issued a press release stating they "very much support the Travolta family and all families affected by autism".Travolta's testimony last week admitting that his son was autistic was the first time he had stated as much publicly; previously he and his wife had only said Jett had experienced Kawasaki syndrome. Travolta's son Jett died in January 2009 at the age of 16 after experiencing a seizure. "My son was autistic and suffered from seizure disorder. Every five to ten days he suffered seizures which lasted 45 seconds to a minute," said Travolta in his court testimony on September 22. A piece in iVillage noted Travolta had been pressured for years to speak out publicly about his son Jett's autism. iVillage cited a 2007 piece in the New York Post, where a source commented "He could do so much good for autism awareness if he would just come forward."News media and critics have suggested that Travolta and his wife's allegiance to Scientology was behind their rationale for not previously acknowledging that Jett was autistic. The Church of Scientology opposes psychiatry and does not recognize autism as an affliction. Church representative Tommy Davis had told MSNBC that "The Church of Scientology has no position on autism," however a Scientology-founded organization the Citizens Commission On Human Rights stated to the United States Senate in 2008: "The Citizens Commission on Human Rights believes that there is no known medical treatment for autism except off-label drugs."Former Scientologists Tory Christman and Claire Headley were interviewed about the recent revelation by Travolta for The Daily Beast, and commented on its implications. Christman suffers from epilepsy, a condition which also causes seizures. She told The Daily Beast that the Church of Scientology pressured her to go off of her seizure medications, and instead take "vitamins and supplements". After doing so, Christman experienced a grand mal seizure and knocked out two of her teeth in the bathroom. Headley, who has filed a lawsuit against Scientology for labor-law violations, told The Daily Beast that the only techniques that Scientology would have sanctioned to help Jett would have been internal procedures known as "assists and objective processing". Church representative Tommy Davis responded to The Daily Beast: "This religion is utterly and completely about helping. It’s just insane to think that Scientology would be a factor in somebody not getting all the help they need."ABC News reported Tuesday that the president of the National Autism Association (NAA), Wendy Fournier, stated those that had experience with autism awareness had previously recognized signs from media video that Jett Travolta suffered from the disease. Fournier commented: "It didn't really come as a surprise for people. But I've read some things that really bother me - basically that they should have come forward sooner. Everybody handles autism in the best way that they can and for whatever personal reasons they had, they chose not to make it public. Just because you have a child with autism and you're a celebrity, it does not automatically mandate you to be a spokesperson for the disorder." Another official from the autism community, the national manager for Talk About Curing, Autism Rebecca Estepp, said to ABC News: "The Travoltas are suffering right now from a tragedy that could affect anyone. ... We've heard of several children passing away with seizures lately." On Tuesday's edition of the ABC television program The View, co-host Whoopi Goldberg commented on the statements made by the representative of the National Autism Association to ABC News about Travolta's admission of his son's autism. "Since John Travolta has testified his son Jett was autistic in this blackmail case, the National Autism Association has come out saying they didn't expect him to be a celebrity spokesperson for autism, but he should have come forward sooner," said Goldberg. The View co-hosts proceeded to discuss whether Travolta should have publicly revealed his son's ailment earlier, and the impact of labels in society and the media. Sherri Shepherd commented on the negative impact of labeling individuals, and guest-host Gloria Estefan remarked: "I don't like labels, period." "I guess what is stunning to me is that anyone has the right to expect you to say anything about your family," said Goldberg. "Isn't it partly that he's a Scientologist and that there's a reputation that Scientologists don't believe in diseases of certain kinds?" asked co-host Joy Behar. Goldberg asserted that it was the individual's decision whether or not to speak publicly about such an issue. Shepherd pointed out that celebrity actress Jenny McCarthy has spoken out publicly about autism, which her son suffers from, and noted that her voice has helped to focus public attention on the disease. Behar questioned Travolta's earlier statements that his son had Kawasaki disease: "The thing about Travolta though - he called it Kawasaki disease. Did he know that it was autism, and just said it was Kawasaki - was he making that up? I don't know." Goldberg said: "This is not the way to get people to come out and say, 'You know what, I'm going to take a stand.' It's just, it's none of your business until somebody wants to make it your business, but that's just me.After the program's broadcast, the National Autism Association came out with a press release Tuesday, in response to statements made on The View. "The National Autism Association stated today that they very much support the Travolta family and all families affected by autism", said the press release. The NAA clarified that the statement made to ABC News by its president Wendy Fournier was the opposite position of that quoted by Goldberg, asserting that it was taken out of context. "I agree with Ms. Goldberg, the Travoltas, like any other family struggling with the illness of their child, are entitled to their privacy. I have read hurtful, judgmental comments from individuals as well as organizations, suggesting that that the Travolta family owed it to the autism community to use their celebrity to bring awareness to the disorder. I couldn't disagree more," said Fournier.The organization's board chair, Lori McIlwain, commented in the press release: "NAA is here to support families and fellow parents. This debate does not serve anyone. As a nation, we need to instead focus on helping those affected by autism, which now affects 1 in 100 children." According to the release, the organization was founded in 2003, and is one of the largest in the United States. The NAA's mission includes educated families about autism and neurological disorders.Cleveland, Ohio-based University Hospitals Case Medical Center child and adolescent psychiatrist Dr. Marcie Hall said that according to studies one fourth of autistic children may concurrently have seizure disorder. The director of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Management Center at New York City's Montefiore Medical Center, Dr. Shlomo Shinnar, stated: "In neurologically-normal children with epilepsy, the risk of death is actually no different than for children without seizures."An appeals court in Texas has ruled that Texas Child Protective Services should not have taken the children from the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (FLDS) compound as they were unable to prove that the children in the compound were at risk of immediate physical harm.401 allegedly abused children were taken into state custody last month after officials received a call from a distressed 16-year-old girl. The children were found in a 1700-acre compound belonging to the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. It is now believed that the original phone call was actually a hoax.Police were monitoring the compound ever since it was bought by the group one year ago. According to Texas law there must have been "a danger to the physical health or safety of the child which was caused by an act or failure to act of the person entitled to possession and for the child to remain in the home is contrary to the welfare of the child". In addition to the above there must also be "the urgent need for protection required the immediate removal of the child and reasonable efforts, consistent with the circumstances and providing for the safety of the child, were made to eliminate or prevent the child’s removal"Finally, for state custody to be allowed there must also have been "reasonable efforts have been made to enable the child to return home". A lower court was given 10 days to make a decision on whether the above requirements are met. Although originally the mothers were allowed to stay with the children, they are not required to be separate unless the parents are aged under  eighteen or the children are very young. The FLDS said in an open letter to the Governor of Texas that a "critical crisis" was unfolding due to these recent incidents. The Texas courts system released documents on its website regarding the recent decision. It said that: "the only danger to the male children or the female children who had not reached puberty identified by the Department was the Department’s assertion that the pervasive belief system of the FLDS community groomed the males to be perpetrators of sexual abuse later in life and taught the girls to submit to sexual abuse after reaching puberty."The document also noted that: "There was no evidence that the male children, or the female children who had not reached puberty, were victims of sexual or other physical abuse or in danger of being victims of sexual or other physical abuse." The website reported that: "While there was evidence that twenty females had become pregnant between the ages of thirteen and seventeen, there was no evidence regarding the marital status of these girls when they became pregnant or the circumstances under which they became pregnant other than the general allegation that the girls were living in an FLDS community with a belief system that condoned underage marriage and sex."The report claimed there were five possible cases of abuse, "There was no evidence that any of the female children other than the five identified as having become pregnant between the ages of fifteen and seventeen were victims or potential victims of sexual or other physical abuse".In addition to Texas, the group has compounds in Hildale, Mancos and many other locations. The church has around 10,000 members in total, and was founded in the 1930s. The church split from the  Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints due to the fact that it abandoned polygamy.The Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints is led by Warren Jeffs – jailed last year for the rape and forced marriage of a 14 year old girl – is a breakaway branch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which abandoned the practice of polygamy in 1890.Sharman Networks, owner of the popular Kazaa peer-to-peer software, lost against a coalition of record labels in an Australian federal court. The court ruled that Kazaa infringed on artists' copyright and facilitated piracy. The list of plaintiffs included EMI, Sony BMG, Warner, Festival Mushroom and Universal. The court has ordered Sharman to modify the software within two months to prevent further piracy. While this order is only valid in Australia, Sharman is incorporated in the country and thus the effect of the ruling will be felt in the peer to peer community worldwide. Sharman was also ordered to pay 90% of the plaintiff's legal fees, with damages to be considered at a later date. Sharman has said it will appeal.It is unclear whether this will have a significant effect on preventing piracy in the music industry. Surveys have shown that users have already abandoned Kazaa, which used to be the dominant peer to peer program used for sharing files, in favour of newer networks such as eDonkey and BitTorrent. This trend amongst users was also observed to happen with Grokster and Napster, two legacy peer-to-peer networks which faced similar suits.This is not the first case in which Sharman has had to defend itself: in a related case in the U.S. Supreme Court which concluded two months ago, the court ruled that file sharing networks could be held responsible for the actions of their users in some circumstances. This may have influenced this most recent case, where the court found the Kazaa website encouraged visitors to feel 'cool' about breaking copyright law and downloading illegal music.Kazaa, or other versions of it, has been estimated to be installed on up to 300 million computers worldwide.In a unanimous decision, a US federal appeals court issued a ruling Friday against the federal government, in favor of Massey Energy Co, owner of the Upper Branch Mine in West Virginia, the location of last year's mine disaster that killed 29 workers. The court ruled the company may appeal the restrictions placed on it by a government order hindering the company's ability to conduct its own internal investigation of the disaster. The order controlling Massey's investigations into the disaster was placed on Massey immediately after the incident by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) when it seized control of the coal mine six hours after the blast on April 5.MSHA's controls prohibited Massey from "taking or retaining photographs, collecting and preserving mine dust samples, employing mine mapping technology, and participating in or objecting to any destructive testing of materials gathered underground." Massey said MSHA's restrictions prevented the company from evaluating the accident site before it was altered by investigators, and denied Massey the chance to gather evidence to use in the company's defense.Massey's appeal to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (the commission that decides disputes over mining regulations) to void the order by MSHA was denied by the commission. It based its decision on its interpretation of the Mine Act that it had no authority to consider Massey's appeal. The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit set aside this decision, finding the commission's interpretation of the act was "simply untenable" and the government's actions had denied Massey the opportunity to gather "potentially important exculpatory evidence".The court rejected the commission's position that the Mine Act's language was ambiguous, allowing the government flexibility in its implementation. Rather, the court said, "No matter how you parse it, [the act] is a model of near-perfect clarity. Indeed, it is hard to imagine a clearer expression of congressional language." It also rejected the commission's position that the case was moot: "This case is not moot. Indeed, even the [Labor] Secretary's counsel recognized the near-frivolity of this argument, and made only a half-hearted attempt to persuade us."The court's ruling comes after a state government-comissioned report issued on May 19 by investigators found Massey Energy responsible for the deaths of the 29 workers. The workers were killed in an explosion that could have been avoided, the report said, if Massey had put in place standard safety procedures."The story of Upper Big Branch is a cautionary tale of hubris. A company that was a towering presence in the Appalachian coal fields operated its mines in a profoundly reckless manner, and 29 coal miners paid with their lives for the corporate risk taking," the report read. "The company's ventilation system did not adequately ventilate the mine. As a result, explosive gases were allowed to build up." The report detailed claims Massey threatened miners with termination if they stopped work in areas that lacked adequate oxygen levels and listed numerous other state and federal safety standards that Massey failed to follow. Also blamed in the report was MSHA for failing to enforce federal regulations.The report was considered by the those in the mining industry as especially direct and "hard hitting". It firmly rejected conclusions reached by Massey officials that the incident was caused by an unexpected, massive, and uncontrollable methane bubble eruption, an occurrence that Massey said it could neither predict nor manage.  The company immediately challenged the report and issued its own report on June 3, blaming the blast on an act of nature and denying the company's safety culture was at fault. MSHA also have an as-yet unreleased report in the works.A U.S. federal judge upheld the expulsion of former New York State Senator Hiram Monserrate from the New York State Senate in a ruling on Friday. Monserrate had been found guilty in October of misdemeanor assault, in the criminal trial involving an alleged attack on his girlfriend Karla Giraldo. Monserrate was expelled from the New York State Senate last week by a majority vote of his fellow senators. The result of the vote was 53 to 8 in favor of expulsion.Federal judge William H. Pauley III denied a request to temporarily block the expulsion. A lawsuit had been filed by Monserrate, which had asked for a reversal of the former Senator's explusion and in addition sought a block on a March 16 special election for a replacement.The New York Civil Liberties Union supported Monserrate in the case. The former Senator argued that the act of being expelled from the Senate was not appropriate, as he claimed it violated due process.Judge Pauley ruled, "the question of who should represent the 13th Senatorial District is one for the voters, not for this court." The judge explained that the voting rights of the citizens of the district formerly represented by Monserrate would not be significantly negatively impacted, due to the proximity of the upcoming special election. Monserrate has stated that he will run in the special election, and he is not prohibited from doing so. The court's ruling determined that the expulsion by the New York State Senate was not inappropriate, stating, "the power of a body to determine the fitness of its members is embedded in American democracy." Judge Pauley noted, "Similar processes to discipline have long existed in deliberative bodies at all levels of government."New York State Attorney General Andrew Cuomo issued a statement in support of the judge's ruling. "We are gratified that the Court has confirmed our position that the Senate had the authority to expel Mr. Monserrate," said the Attorney General. According to The New York Times, Monserrate was expected to appeal the ruling of the court.Monserrate's misdemeanor assault conviction pertained to an incident where he dragged his girlfriend through the lobby while exiting his apartment building. He was acquitted by a judge of charges of felony assault. Felony conviction would have resulted in an immediate expulsion from the New York State Senate. Monserrate is the first politician to be expelled from the New York State Senate in almost a century. He is a former New York City police officer. Prior to becoming a member of the New York State Senate, he was a city councilman. He became a member of the New York State Senate weeks after the alleged conflict with Giraldo, and was made chair of the committee overseeing consumer affairs. Along with Democrat Pedro Espada Jr., Monserrate started a shift in control of the Senate by aligning with the Republican Party.In Sudan, Judge Muntasim Mohamed Saleh sentenced eight men from the rebel group Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) to death and found another not guilty. A 16-year-old defendant was referred a special juvenile court. The accused were being tried under counter-terrorism legislation over the 2008 attack on Omdurman and Khartoum."I find you guilty under the Sudanese counter-terrorism law, chapter five and six, and Sudanese criminal law, chapter 130, I sentence you to be hanged to death," Saleh told the eight men who stood in silence in the dock as the verdict was read out.Defence lawyers said that these special courts are unconstitutional and do not guarantee their clients' legal rights. "It is against Sudanese constitutional law because Sudanese constitutional law gives the citizen the right to be tried in the normal way. The defence team will appeal the decision of the court," said Kamal Omar—one of the defence lawyers—to Agence France-Presse. Under Sudanese law, all death sentences are ratified by an appeal court and the high court. They are then sent to the Sudanese president to be signed.Four Sudanese courts were held in Khartoum, Khartoum North and Omdurman to try dozens of suspects rounded up after the May 10 attack, which marked the first time decades of regional conflict reached the capital. More than 222 people were killed during this incident when rebels drove hundreds of kilometres from western Sudan's region of Darfur to Omdurman, just across the Nile from the presidential palace.According to Buffalo, New York police radio communications, a woman only named as 'Hartwell,' was reported to have been kidnapped from the area of 1770 Hertel Avenue in Buffalo. Police stated that she is scheduled to testify in court today against an unknown party and according to an individual who called 911, she was kidnapped by individuals affiliated with the unknown party. Further communications said that she was kidnapped from near the Hertel location, then driven to the Peace Bridge. Police state that when they arrived on scene at the Hertel location, the individual who called 911 was receiving text messages from Hartwell stating that they had already crossed the Bridge and made it into Canada.Further communications stated that there is no description of the vehicle that took her and the suspects descriptions are also not known. So far no amber alert has been issued regarding this incident.Ontario courtrooms could get cameras for Ontarians to watch court proceedings on television. This is awaiting approval by both the government and judges.Ontario Attorney General Michael Bryant released a report on justice and the media which recommends cameras to be allowed in courtrooms except during witness testimony. Bryant said he agreed with the suggestion from a panel of experts composed of court officials and members of news organizations. "I think that our justice system is ready for its close-up," Bryant said in Toronto.Bryant agreed Thursday, saying the compromise position would avoid sensational coverage of criminal trials often seen in the U.S."The panel looked at that and wanted to avoid the circus," said Bryant. "There were great concerns about television cameras reporting in a fashion that would intimidate witnesses. Some witnesses (and some victims) might not come forward if they thought they would be on television.""We're not talking about filming trials, we're talking about allowing cameras into the court to record legal argument," said Louise Botham, president of the Ontario Criminal Lawyer's Association.Proceedings at the Supreme Court of Canada are broadcast on the Canadian Parliamentary Affairs Channel (CPAC) and provinces such as British Columbia, Nova Scotia and Manitoba, with prior permission of the court. In Newfoundland, cameras are allowed into a courtroom up to the time the judge enters.An appeals court said a Pennsylvania police department was justified in firing an officer because he lost his sense of smell in an off-duty motorcycle accident.The court said the Collier Township firing was valid because police need their sense of smell to detect substances like drugs, alcohol, hazardous materials, the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court ruled.David Agostino, 44, suffered anosmia, a partial or full lack of sense of smell, due to head trauma suffered from a 2004 crash in Ohio. Officials in Collier Township, a Pittsburgh suburb in Allegheny County, honorably discharged him because they were worried the condition created a risk.Attorneys for Agostino unsuccessfully argued a sense of smell is not part of the physical exam for prospective police officers, and that there was no statute or police regulation that cited lack of sense of smell as grounds for firing a police officer.But during the court hearing, a fellow officer testified Agostino could not smell the odor of marijuana and alcohol after pulling over a motorist following a high-speed chase. His police chief also said he failed to smell leaking gas from an elderly resident's furnace."[The chief] explained that Agostino's inability to smell if the furnace was leaking gas created a hazardous situation, placing Agostino, the resident and the public in danger because 'it could have possibly caused an explosion,'" Judge Bernard L. McGinley wrote in the decision.Agostino, of South Fayette Township, could not be reached for comment by media reports after the decision by the three-judge Commonwealth Court panel.According to The Wall Street Journal, the U.S. Department of Transportation has analyzed data from the vehicles involved in accidents caused by sudden acceleration, which led to Toyota, the world's top automaker, recalling a large number of automobiles. Early analysis showed that the throttle was wide open and the brakes weren't engaged when the cars crashed, and suggests that the accidents may have been caused by drivers unintentionally flooring the accelerator instead of the brakes. The U.S. Department of Transportation did not confirm this report.However, Toyota is still under federal investigation for a number of known issues with its cars' acceleration.  The accelerator is known to not return to idle after it has been released, and the floor mats are known to trap the accelerator pedal.  Toyota is also suspected of having electronic glitches in its computer-controlled throttle systems, but released a statement on Wednesday saying that its investigations found no problems in the throttle systems.Over the years Toyota has received more than 3000 complaints about sudden acceleration.  These may have caused up to 75 fatal crashes that led to 93 deaths.  Due to these accidents, Toyota provided the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) with ten event data recorders from cars involved in accidents.  However, the NHTSA has only managed to confirm that one of these accidents was caused by malfunctions in the car – an accident in California this August that was caused by the floor mat trapping the gas pedal in a depressed position.The NHTSA, in conjunction with NASA, has begun a broader study into what caused these accidents, however conclusions aren't expected for months. The ongoing lawsuits against Toyota could result in more than $10 billion of damages.The Young Earth Creationist who sent threatening emails and letters tobiologists at the University of Colorado at Boulder also sent threatening letters to the University chancellor G.P.Peterson as well as the vice-chancellor of undergraduate education and others.The man who had sent the threats has been identified as Menachem "Michael" Korn, a former Orthodox Jew who converted to Messianic Judaism (no longer affiliated with either) and who now self-identifies as"Christian".  Claimed excerpts of the threats were posted on The Panda's Thumb, a biology blog that focuses on "the claims of the anti-evolution movement." Among other statements, Korn compared evolutionary biologists to child molesters and discussed killing the "enemies of Christian society" who are "terrorists against America". A spokesperson for Colorado University said that the excerpts were "consistent" with the threats but refused to confirm if they were actual excerpts. Korn had apparently distributed fliers on campus before and harassed professors but over the last few days the threats had become more extreme.Wikinews interviewed the creator of a parody website satirizing American political commentator Glenn Beck, about his thoughts after prevailing in a domain name dispute brought by Beck before the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) in Geneva, Switzerland. Florida resident Isaac Eiland-Hall created the website in September, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics "to spread lies and misinformation". Eiland-Hall was represented in the case by free speech lawyer Marc Randazza.Wikinews interviewed Randazza for the article "US free speech lawyer Marc Randazza discusses Glenn Beck parody", and previously reported on the Beck v. Eiland-Hall case in articles, "US free speech lawyer defends satire of Glenn Beck",  "Satirical website criticizes Glenn Beck for 'hypocritical' attempts to silence free speech", and "Glenn Beck loses domain name case over parody website".Creekstone Farms Premium Beef, an organic meatpacking company based in Arkansas City, Kansas, filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) for what the company claims is threats by the USDA that it would face prosecution if it proceeds with plans to test nearly 100% of its beef for Bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as mad cow disease or BSE.The USDA position is that allowing any meatpacking company to test every cow would undermine the agency's official position, a position that holds to random testing as a scientifically adequate measure to assure safety.  It also claims that 100% testing does not ensure food safety because the disease is difficult to detect in younger animals.The USDA currently tests about 1% of cattle slaughtered in the U.S. The USDA's objection is believed to be the result of pressure from larger meatpacking operations.  In 2004, the president of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association told the Washington Post that "If testing is allowed at Creekstone, we think it would become the international standard and the domestic standard, too." Creekstone Farms says tests cost about $20 per animal, increasing the cost of beef by about 10 cents per pound.Kent Hovind's Appeal for his and his wife, Jo's, felony convictions was recently denied by Eleventh Circuit Court.  The court found that the Hovinds' appeal was "without merit."  Kent and Jo were convicted of 58 and 44 tax-related felonies respectively, obstruction and intimidation of federal officers, willful failure to collect and pay taxes, and structuring to avoid bank reporting requirements.  Kent is a Pensacola young Earth creationist/Evangelist and operator of Dinosaur Adventure Land whose speaking engagements and merchandise earned US$5 million from 1999 to March 2004.The Appeal looked at several issues and concluded that there was enough evidence to convict the Hovinds and that the government did not err. Among other issues, it ruled "Sufficient evidence establishes that Kent failed to collect or pay withholding taxes." It cited that "Employees of Evangelism Enterprises, peers, and legal counsel testified that Kent disputed the authority of the Internal Revenue Service based on the separation of the church and state, debated the interpretation and application of the withholding requirements, and intentionally characterized Evangelism Enterprises as a 'church' and his employees as 'missionaries' to avoid tax obligations." The Appeals court also ruled that the Hovinds "challenge the validity of their convictions on the ground that the statute does not penalize transactions below $10,000," but the court ruled "this interpretation does not comport with the language of the statute." Furthermore, it found "that Kent intended to impede agents of the Revenue Service (IRS) in their efforts to investigate and prosecute Kent’s violations of the tax laws" by "fil[ing] complaints and sued agents of the Internal Revenue Service and instituted legal proceedings to circumvent the lawful seizure of his assets." Lastly, it affirmed the forfeiture of substitute property when the original property was transferred or deposited with a third party.On January 19, 2007 Kent was sentenced to ten years in prison and ordered to pay US$640,000 in owed funds to the IRS, pay prosecution's court costs of $7,078, and serve three years parole once released. Whereas, in June 2007 Jo was sentenced to one year and one day in prison, but the judge released her pending appeal.PONTIAC, Michigan — After spending weeks going over written statements, TV video and even fan shot video, Oakland County Prosecutor David Gorcyca announced criminal charges against five Indiana Pacer players and seven fans stemming from the November 19th brawl at The Palace Of Auburn Hills.Stephen Jackson, David Harison, Ron Artest and Anthony Johnson were all charged with one count of assault and battery.  Three time NBA All-Star Jermaine O’Neal was charged with two counts of assault and battery.  Each charge is a misdemeanor that carries a maximum penalty of 3 months in jail and a fine up to $500.Gorcyca also filed charges against seven fans.  John Green, John Ackerman, William Paulson, Bryant Jackson and David Wallace were all charged with assault and battery.  David Wallace is the brother of Detroit Piston star, Ben Wallace.  John Green was charged with two counts of assault and battery.  The first one for tossing the cup that started the brawl and another count for punching Artest from behind when Artest went into the stands.  Bryant Jackson also faces a felony assault charge for throwing a chair.  That is punishable by up to four years in jail, but Gorcyca said Jackson may serve more time based on his prior convictions.Two other fans, Charlie Haddad and Alvin Shackleford, were also charged with a local ordinance that prevents fans from walking onto the floor.   All seven fans have been banned from The Palace.Liverpool Crown Court jailed an ex-policeman who led a double life as a senior figure in a Preston, England drugs gang. Salim Razaq, described by his Assistant Chief Constable Andy Cooke of Lancashire Constabulary as "nothing short of a criminal in a police uniform", received eleven-and-a-half years imprisonment on Tuesday after being caught during a 'turf war' with a rival gang.The 33-year-old spoke to his brother over the phone while the latter was in jail on remand for kidnap and assault. Hafiz 'The Enforcer' 'Big Haf' Razaq was involved in hijacking Mohammed Begg's BMW and abducting him. Begg, linked to the Fishwick gang, was tortured and beaten for three hours by Hafiz and other Deepdale gang members. Salim and Hafiz discussed money laundering and plans to intimidate witnesses in Hafiz's trial. Other officers bugged the calls, their suspicions aroused when Salim improperly used the force computer system to check on family members and associates.Lancashire Police's Professional Standards Department then raided Salim's home in Walton-le-Dale, near Preston, and found £72,000 in laundered cash hidden in the police sergeant's bedroom. Three machine guns — two Uzis and a Sten — were concealed under the stairs. 228 bullets, a bullet-proof jacket, a balaclava, and a knuckle-duster were also confiscated.Last month he entered guilty pleas to two counts of perverting the course of justice, three counts of possession of a firearm, possession of ammunition, conspiracy to transfer criminal property, conspiracy to acquire or retain criminal property and misconduct in a public office. The conspiracies referred to money laundering; the misconduct was for abusing the police database.Salim joined the police in 2001 and served as a traffic cop patrolling motorways, before his promotion to sergeant in January last year. He was dismissed in June when the force convened a Special Case Hearing to fast-track the process. Salim and Hafiz's mother Gulshan admitted perverting the course of justice; her role was to intimidate witnesses. Hafiz entered guilty pleas to money laundering and two counts of perverting the course of justice. Two more gang members — Jason Lawrenson and Daniel Cookson — admitted money laundering, and another man, Louis Bamber, admitted possession of a firearm.Gulshan was given a 44-week sentence suspended for two years and Hafiz received three-and-a-half years, this in addition to a six-year sentence for the attack on Begg. It was this attack that initiated the war, with a Deepdale member being shot in the throat in retaliation.In sentencing Salim Judge Henry Globe QC said "The offending took place over an extended period of time. It amounts to a breach of trust, a dereliction of duty and it amounts to extremely serious and persistent criminal offending whilst ostensibly, supposedly upholding criminal justice in your capacity as a serving police officer. Your actions have brought potential discredit to the police force. It would have made the tasks of other officers more difficult. In particular, I make reference to the gravity of your offending in relation to the firearms offences."It cannot be exaggerated that the guns you knowingly had in your possession were three sub machine guns with many rounds of live ammunition to be used with them. There was no conceivable, lawful or justifiable purpose that anyone could have had to have them in their possession."Commander Ali Dizaei of London's Metropolitan Police Service today became the most senior officer anywhere in the United Kingdom to be convicted of offences by a court. Dizaei, who was branded a "criminal in uniform" by Independent Police Complaints Commission chair Nick Hardwick, has been jailed for four years after he attempted to frame an Iraqi businessman.It took a Southwark Crown Court jury under three hours to find Dizaei guilty of misconduct in a public office and attempting to pervert the course of justice. The charges carried a maximum of life imprisonment.Dizaei, 47, who is head of the National Black Police Association, had gone to the Yas Persian restaurant, run by one of his friends, and taken his wife Shy with him. They then went to their car and struck up a conversation through its open window with the restaurant's manager. During this conversation they were approached by Waad al-Baghdadi, an Iraqi website designer in his twenties. He requested that Dizaei pay £600 that he owed Baghdadi, who had constructed his website.According to the Crown, this dispute had been ongoing for months and Dizaei had been attempting to intimidate Baghdadi. He told the Iraqi to depart when he entered the restaurant; although the businessman did, he stayed nearby and rang the 999 emergency number.The exact content of the argument that led up to this is unclear. Dizaei and his wife testified that Baghdadi was abusive and threatening, telling the officer he would "extract the money out of your throat" while the owner of the Yas said he was "a crook basically... His history ... everybody knows he's not a good gentleman," said owner Sohrab Eshragi. Eshragi said that the request Baghdadi leave the premises was due to concerns of trouble, claiming Baghdadi had been in a previous fight. Baghdadi denied the allegations and the court rejected Dizaei's version of events.While Baghdadi was making his emergency call, Dizaei arrested him and made a 999 call of his own. He requested assistence from other officers, and said that Baghdadi had assaulted him by stabbing his stomach with a shisha pipe. He maintained this account when police arrived and kept it up in written statements, but although Baghdadi was found to be carrying such a pipe examination of Dizaei's wounds by a police doctor concluded he had inflicted them upon himself. A Home Office pathologist questioned this finding for the defence. Dr. Nat Cary said it was based on a "fundamentally flawed approach," and that the injuries were consistent with Dizaei's version of events. He has helped investigate the assassination of former Pakistani PM Benazir Bhutto, and the death newspaper seller Ian Thomlinson, the latter of whom died during a G20 protest.The Crown further alleged that Dizaei told Baghdadi "I'll fuck your life... You think I don't know what you do in London... I'll find every single detail of your life in London." The prosecution case was presented by Peter Wright QC, who has prosecuted in trials over serial murders of Suffolk sex workers and a plot to bomb transatlantic airliners. He said that Dizaei's actions were a "wholesale abuse of power by a senior police officer for entirely personal and oblique motives."Judge Justice Simon said that Dizaei had committed a "grave breach of public trust" and told him "This sentence needs to send a clear message that police officers of whatever rank are not above the law." A Crown Prosecution Service spokesman said outside the court that "He abused his power and ignored his responsibility," and that while corruption was unacceptable in any police officer it was particularly so in a senior member of the forces. "The public should have confidence that we will prosecute anyone, regardless of their position, if they commit serious offences. We believe justice has been served for the victim and the public." "[I]f he [Dizaei] had been successful, Mr al-Baghdadi may have been sent to prison," noted Hardwick. "Mr al-Baghdadi has shown tremendous strength of character throughout this case ‑ from the moment he was confronted by Ali Dizaei, throughout our investigation, and finally when giving evidence at court. We are grateful for the confidence he placed in the IPCC and, as a result of that, justice has been done today."Dizaei has been a policeman for 24 years, and at one stage was rumoured to be destined to take control of the Metropolitan Police, although the Metropolitan Police Authority may now choose to end this career. His trial, which began this month, is his second this decade. He was prosecuted in 2003 but cleared of any wrongdoing. The incident with Baghdadi was in June 2008 and Dizaei has been suspended on full pay since September of that year. Hardwick said that "The greatest threat to the reputation of the police service is criminals in uniform like Dizaei."Brazil — The mother of Brazilian soccer player Luis Fabiano has been kidnapped. According to the television channel TV ESPN Brasil, the kidnapping occurred Friday, March 11, by morning in Ponte Preta district, Campinas, 83.5 km (52 mi) of São Paulo.The police are not giving too many details, and a great part of local media is not reporting the case, afraid of putting the life of Fabiano's mother at risk.This is the third kidnapping of a soccer player's mother in four months. On February 23, Ilma de Castro Libânio, 51, the mother of the Brazilian soccer player Edinaldo Batista Libânio, 25, known as Grafite was kidnapped. On November 6, 2004, the mother of Robson dos Santos, or Robinho, was kidnapped.In both cases, the hostages were released and they are well, and the police arrested the suspects.It has recently been made public that on September 27, seventeen year old Shaun Dykes jumped off a multistory building following encouragement from the crowd. According to the BBC's Today programme, a variety of different people, including youths and middle aged citizens, were telling the teenager to jump.Alasdair Kay, director of the Derby City Mission, saw the incident unfold. He expressed his shock and disgust at the incident. "People were filming… we could hear people shouting '[J]ump, you,'" she said. "They weren't all just young people, some were middle-aged. To be honest with you I was sickened."Derbyshire's Chief Constable Mick Creedon, also yesterday commented on the indent. "The tragic death of Shaun Dykes at Derby on 27th September has attracted much comment and media speculation," he started. "The pain that Shaun's family and friends are suffering must be unimaginable and they have my deepest sympathy.""The primary responsibility of the police is the protection of life, and the Derbyshire Constabulary will always have this responsibility at the forefront of our response to such tragic events as Shaun's death last Saturday," he continued. "We have very well trained and experienced staff, well practiced in dealing with such incidents and I have no doubt that the officers involved in talking to Shaun on Saturday did their best with the situation they were presented with.""The fact that they were unsuccessful in negotiating Shaun to safety will have been very painful for them, particularly for the two officers who spent two hours talking directly to him. They have my sincere thanks for their efforts as, I'm sure, they have the thanks of the vast majority of those reading this."Shaun Dykes, had been raised in a single parent family in a village near Derbyshire and he recently returned from a business course to study to become an accountant or a pilot.Before his death, he was working part time in a local pub. Craig Doxey, his best friend, described Dykes. "He was always smiling and laughing about stuff. I think if it wasn't for the crowd, Shaun would have got down and got some help from all his mates, work colleagues and the police."He went to Heanor Gate Science College, and he was openly gay. According to one of his friends from that school, Rebkha Minkley, "he always came in, in the morning with a smile on his face."According to the Today program, Dykes is believed to have left a suicide note before jumping off the building.File:European court of human rights.JPGThe Strasbourg-based European Court of Human Rights ruled unanimously yesterday that state school classrooms displaying crucifixes do not violate the rights of non-Catholic pupils.In a reversal of the unanimous November 2009 decision the court said, although the crucifix is "above all a religious symbol", it is an "essentially passive symbol" and there is no evidence crucifixes displayed on classroom walls influence pupils.The court's final ruling reverses their 2009 decision in a case brought by a Finnish-born mother living in Italy who objected to the Roman Catholic symbols in her children's classrooms on the grounds that they violated the secular principles state schools should uphold. The court agreed, saying the crucifix might be "emotionally disturbing for pupils of other religions or those who profess no religion". But the decision created a vociferous outcry in many European countries, such as Italy, which argued the crucifix is a cultural symbol, and a part of Europe's culture and history.The appeal was handled by New York University legal scholar Joseph Weiler, arguing extreme secularism could threaten the use of British national anthem God Save the Queen.Italy's foreign minister, Franco Frattini, welcomed the reversal. According to the newspaper La Repubblica he said, "The decision underlines, above all, the rights of citizens to defend their own values and their own identities. I hope that following this verdict Europe will begin to examine issues of tolerance and religious freedom with the same courage." Friday's ruling is binding on the 47 countries that are members of the Council of Europe, the continent's monitor of human rights, paving the way for petitions to other governments to allow religious symbols in schools for those who want them.Tom Cruise: An Unauthorized Biography, a biography of actor Tom Cruise written by journalist Andrew Morton, was released in the United States yesterday amidst the potential for a US$100 million lawsuit against its publisher, St. Martin's Press.  The book will not be published in Australia, Britain, and New Zealand due to strict libel laws in those countries.  Morton had previously written the biography of Diana, Princess of Wales, Diana: Her True Story.  The book has reached number nine on Amazon.com's list of top sellers.The book describes Cruise as the No. 2 leader of the Church of Scientology, blames Scientologists for the breakup of Cruise and actress Nicole Kidman, and states that Cruise's latest mission is to recruit David Beckham and wife Victoria into Scientology.  The book also describes how some Scientology followers thought that Cruise's wife Katie Holmes was impregnated with frozen sperm from L. Ron Hubbard, founder of Scientology, and Morton compares the situation to Rosemary's Baby "In her more reflective moments, Katie might have felt as if she were in the middle of a real-life version of the horror movie ‘Rosemary’s Baby,’ in which an unsuspecting young woman is impregnated with the devil’s child." A 15-page statement released by the Church of Scientology denied Morton's assertions of Cruise's No. 2 standing within the organization.  In the statement the Church of Scientology claims that Morton did not respond to requests for an interview "The Church of Scientology requested to be interviewed or be presented with any allegations so we could respond. Morton refused despite our insistence in offering our cooperation."  The Church of Scientology also specifically responded to the claims regarding Hubbard's frozen sperm: "Was Katie impregnated by L. Ron Hubbard's frozen sperm? ... As distasteful as it is to have to say it, Mr. Hubbard's sperm was never frozen."  According to the AFP, "the Church of Scientology is reportedly considering legal action against US publishers St Martin's Press."  The Church of Scientology's general counsel, Eliot Abelson, discussed the potential for litigation in an interview with the Mail on Sunday "We are seriously considering legal action and will wait to see the public reaction."  Cruise's attorney Bertram Fields expressed thanks for the strict libel laws in Britain "It's not being published in England. The American publishers criticised the libel laws in Britain because they require an author to tell the truth. Well, thank God for the British libel laws."  New York's Daily News has reported that the Church of Scientology and lawyers for Cruise are planning a US$100 million lawsuit over the book's publication.  Rogers & Cowan, the public relations agency that represents Cruise, issued a statement which criticized Morton for not interviewing "one person who has known or worked with Tom" in the past twenty-five years.The Church of Scientology statement also pointed out that the book is not being published in Australia, Britain and New Zealand due to the countries' strict libel laws.  Australia-based companies Pan Macmillan Australia and retailer Dymocks Booksellers decided not to stock copies of the book on their shelves, due to fears of potential defamation actions against them.  A spokesperson for Pan Macmillan Australia stated that they had not received threats from Cruise's representatives or from Scientologists, but that their attorneys had advised them not to sell the book.  Don Grover, chief executive for Dymocks Group stated after legal advice their company had decided to "play it safe" - though neither their lawyers or publishers had read the book itself.  A representative of MacMillan stated that the book would not be published in New Zealand, but would make no further comment on the matter.  A Dymocks New Zealand representative explained that it was possible that the book could be published by their company in New Zealand, but would have to look into it further "The US has different legislation than New Zealand and Australia. There are some issues with the book having legal questions asked and we would need those tidied up before we stock it."Morton spent two years doing research for the book, and spoke with individuals who knew Cruise personally, and executives within the Church of Scientology.  Morton stated that some of these executives emailed him, confirming the accuracy of material within the book.  Morton described the desire for anonymity by some of the sources in the book "Some people, obviously, will not go on the record to talk about Tom Cruise because they’re scared of him."In an interview on The Today Show with Meredith Vieira, Morton defended his work and responded to the statement from the Church of Scientology.  Morton stated that it was unusual for a church to respond in such a way if Cruise is simply an ordinary member, asking "How many churches support one parishioner — a lowly parishioner — that way?"  Morton described the response as an attack "Their policy is always to attack the attacker. Their tactic is to denigrate those who seek to talk about it." He told Vieria that he had attempted to contact the head of the Church of Scientology, David Miscavige, but "They refused it. I formally asked for it. I was instructed to ask for it by the publisher’s attorneys, and so what they’re saying is nonsense."  Morton explained his motivation for writing the book "He's no longer just an actor or producer, but a powerful advocate for a cult that's out to expand, especially in Europe."  Morton stated that his interest was piqued after Cruise jumped on Oprah's couch during a May 23, 2005 appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show, and got into a heated debate with Matt Lauer about his beliefs regarding psychiatry during a June 24, 2005 appearance on The Today Show.A 15-year prison sentence was handed down by a Cuban court to US Agency for International Development (USAID) worker Alan Gross for crimes against the state.Gross was arrested in December 2009 while on a USAID mission intended to promote democracy by distributing satellite communications equipment to Jewish groups; these groups have denied any involvement in the matter. Such equipment, and distributing it, is illegal in Cuba.According to a Cuban court, Gross's activities were part of "a subversive project of the US government that aimed to destroy the Revolution through the use of communications systems out of the control of authorities."In response to the decision, a US National Security Council spokesperson said that the "sentencing adds another injustice to Alan Gross’s ordeal. He has already spent too many days in detention and should not spend one more."Gross's wife has requested that Cuba release her husband on humanitarian grounds; some political analysts expect this to eventually occur. Gross, aged 61, is reported to have lost 90 pounds while imprisoned since his arrest, and is affected by ulcers, gout, and arthritis.A curfew has been imposed in Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India and other nearby towns today to stop the march to Pampore by the Separatists. The march was organized to observe the death anniversary of Hurriyat leader Sheikh Abdul Aziz.The separatists asked people to close their businesses for the day and march to Pampore, where Aziz was buried. Aziz was killed during the 'Muzaffarabad chalo' by the soldiers on August 11, 2008. A senior police officer said, "Curfew is in place in old city areas of Srinagar, including uptown Maisuma and Batmaloo localities. Curfew has also been imposed in south Kashmir's Pampore, Pulwama, Kakpora and Tral towns to prevent separatist-incited violence." {{w|Syed Ali Shah Geelani]], a separatist leader, was also placed under house arrest.Tensions began in Kashmir after recovering the corpse of a teenager named Bukhari who went missing after his arrest this morning. "A missing report had been registered in the case and a special investigating team set up to establish the facts. Whosoever is found involved in the death of the teenager will be punished," a senior police officer said.The security men are at their level best to prevent any kind of violence. Three people were injured when the forces tried to disperse a march from Palhalan who had come attend Bukhari's funneral. Also, forces killed four others elsewhere.The militants have ambushed three army vehicles in Rajouri and killed three policemen at a local politician's house in Sopore.So far, 51 people have been killed in the riots and curfews since June 11, 2010 in Kashmir.Alan Shalleck, 76, associate in the children’s book series Curious George, was found dead in his driveway 8 February 2006. Covered in black garbage bags, his body had been disregarded by neighbors and passersby who presumably mistook it for a collection of refuse.Speculation has risen around the case due to the seemingly odd coincidence of Shelleck's death with the Curious George film's Friday release. As of yet, investigators are not releasing any solid information involving the case. A Boynton Beach, Florida Border’s Book and Music store employee, Shelleck had been missing from work for two days prior to the discovery of the body by Burt Venturelli, a maintenance worker at the retirement complex Shelleck called home. Venterelli told Sun-Sentinel reporters “I went to drag it this morning and said, ‘This is a body, this isn’t garbage.”’ He also stated that Shelleck's body was naked from the waist up and that there was "blood all over the place."File:TrialSaddam.jpgSaddam Hussein is reported by BBC to be already executed, at around 6:05 Baghdad time today.10:22PM EST, CBS broke into Friday night coverage to report Saddam was executed.As of 10:00PM EST, the nation of Iraq was awaiting word of Saddam's execution. The custody of Saddam Hussein has been turned over to the Iraqi government and a judge, who is to be present during the execution of the former Iraqi dictator, says that the execution will take place no later than Saturday.One of Nouri al-Maliki's advisers has stated that the execution will be carried out by 6 a.m. on Saturday (10 p.m. Friday EST)."A few minutes ago we received correspondence from the Americans saying that President Saddam Hussein is no longer under the control of United States forces," said a statement by Hussein's lawyers.At least one judge has stated that the execution could take place as early as "today.""Saddam will be executed today or tomorrow. All the measures have been done," said Munir Haddad, an appeal's court judge who upheld the vedict to have Hussein executed. Mr. Haddad is expected to be present during Hussein's execution."I am ready to attend and there is no reason for delay," added Haddad.Not everyone agrees that Hussein should be executed. The Prime Minister of Yemen is trying to urge U.S. President George W. Bush to stop the execution from taking place."The Yemeni government urges [Bush] to intercede to prevent this sentence from being carried out ... as it would lead to more internal strife and suffering for the Iraqi people," said a letter to Bush from Yemeni P.M., Abdul-Qader Bagammal.He is expected to be hanged on a custom-made gallows that has been kept in Camp Cropper, a U.S. military prison at Baghdad airport where Hussein has been imprisoned.The Cutty Sark, one of the most famous historic sailing ships in the world, was seriously damaged by fire in the early hours of Monday morning, May 21, 2007. The 19th century ship, which is in dry dock in Greenwich, London, England, set a speed record during its working days, and has been a popular tourist attraction for many years.The fire brigade was first called to the blaze on the tea clipper at 4:45 a.m. BST and reported that the flames had been extinguished by 7:00 a.m., but firefighters were still on the scene damping down at 8.30 a.m. The blaze was so intense that eight fire engines and 40 firefighters were sent to put out the fire. No injuries have been reported. Cutty Sark Trust chief executive Richard Doughty said he was told the blaze was being treated as suspicious. "We're losing history," he lamented. "It's unbelievable." He went on: "When you lose the original fabric, you lose the touch of the craftsmen; you lose history itself. What is special about Cutty Sark is the timber, the iron frames, that went to the South China Sea. To think that is threatened in any way is unbelievable. It is an unimaginable shock." However, Doughty also confirmed that half of the ship's planking, and all of the masts and rigging had been removed for renovations prior to the fire. The iron framework of the hull has been twisted and buckled.The Chairman of Cutty Sark Enterprises, Chris Levitt, speaking later at the scene, said: "We had removed 50% of the planking, so 50% of the planking wasn't on site and that's safe and secure, and from where I stand there is not a huge amount of damage to the planking that was left on. There are pockets of charred planking and some have gone, but it doesn't look as bad as first envisaged."Cutty Sark Trust curatorial consultant, Dr Eric Kentley was optimistic that the Ship is not completely devastated and can be saved. Speaking about the Cutty Sark, he said: "We will put her back together - but it's going to take much much longer and a lot more money than we originally thought." The historic ship, one of London's best known tourist attractions, has been in dry-dock in Greenwich since 1954. It is currently undergoing a £25 million renovation scheduled to last until 2009. It was feared that gas canisters used in the reconstruction work might explode in the blaze but the London Fire Brigade later confirmed that none were present, although concerns about the risk of explosion had caused some delay in tackling the fire. It is a Grade I listed monument and is on the Buildings At Risk Register in the UK.Recent cyber attacks in Estonia that have paralyzed the high tech country's Web sites are a threat to national security, according to the country's Minister of Defense. This has concerned NATO, seeing that Estonia is a member state of the organization. The attacks have subsided this week.The Defense Minister Jaak Aaviksoo also mentioned that Russia may have been behind the attacks. He stated that the IP numbers in the initial attack belong to Russian government offices, but says that it's insufficient evidence that the government is behind it. The Kremlin is dismissing the accusations, saying that its caused by hackers producing fake Kremlin IP addresses.The cyber attacks came after Estonia removed a Soviet-era statue of a Bronze Soldier in Tallinn, which angered many Russians. Riots have left 160 injured, and 1 dead.Both NATO and the European Union views this as an attack on one of their member states. Three hundred Estonian IT specialist worked day and night to fix the problem.The Estonian government plans to analyze server logs and data to find out who is behind the attacks.A 78-year-old male cyclist died yesterday after being hit by a car in the Scottish capital Edinburgh. The accident occurred when the car hit the cyclist on the B800 road at approximately 1000 UTC yesterday.The driver of the car, a black Mercedes-Benz B-Class vehicle, was not injured in the incident and has reportedly been cooperating with police as they investigate. During inquiries the road on which the accident occurred, which connects Kirkliston and South Queensferry, was closed.In appealing to witnesses, Sergeant Ross Drummond of Police Scotland said the force has yet to track down any witnesses to the incident. "I am appealing for anyone who saw either the man on his bike — he was wearing every day clothing and was not in specialised cycling clothes — or the car around this time," Sergeant Drummond said.A court in Cyprus has begun the trial of defunct airline Helios and four managers over an air disaster in Greece. The five are facing a total of 1,190 charges after Flight 522 went down near Athens in 2005, killing 121 people.All defendants entered not guilty pleas, and are alleged by prosecutors to have operated their business in an unsafe manner. It is alleged that the flight should never have been allowed to take off. As well as the company, executive chairman Andreas Drakos, managing director Demetris Pantazis, operations manager George Kikkides and head pilot Ianko Stoimenov will face a full trial when proceedings are resumed on November 27. They will return to the Nicosia court then. The charges include manslaughter and causing death via a careless act.The unresponsive Boeing 737, supposed to be flying between Lanarca to Prague, had entered Greek airspace, where it was intercepted by two F-16 fighter jets on August 14, 2005.The F-16 pilots reported the airliner's pilots were slumped over the controls. After flying on autopilot for two hours the aircraft crashed near Athens despite the efforts of a flight attendant, who was training to become a pilot, to take control and save the jet.The subsequent investigation discovered that the pilots failed to adequately monitor the pressurisation system. The plane lost cabin pressure and hypoxia caused the incapacitation of the passengers and flight crew. It is thought that the conscious flight attendant had used multiple crew oxygen cylinders to outlast the others on board. Investigators also believe that the equipment had been left in the wrong setting after testing by maintenance engineers and never checked before flight.After failing to resuscitate the pilot-in-command, the trainee pilot turned off the autopilot and attempted an emergency landing at Athens International Airport, which the aircraft had been circling in a holding pattern awaiting human input. However, the aircraft ran out of fuel before reaching the runway.A two-year trial concluded yesterday in Cyprus with the court in Nicosia clearing former senior staff of Helios Airways of manslaughter. They, alongside the defunct airline, had been accused of responsibility for killing 119 in a crash near Athens.All 121 on board Flight 522 were killed but the prosecution did not charge manslaughter in relation to the two flight crew, deeming them partially responsible for their own deaths. The accident remains the worst air disaster to befall both Greece and Cyprus. Most victims were Cypriot tourists.The Cypriot jet left Larnaca on August 14, 2005. It was headed for Prague in the Czech Republic. Contact was quickly lost with the aircraft, which flew itself as far as the Greek capital on autopilot. The Boeing 737's pressurisation system is believed to have been incorrectly set by maintenance and oxygen starvation had knocked out German Captain Hans-Jurgen Merten and Cypriot co-pilot Pambos Charalambous. They never checked the system before takeoff, which had undergone testing prior to flight.An alarm had sounded both on the ground and in the air but had been ignored by those flying, as the same alarm was used for a different problem and the pilots therefore misinterpreted the alarm. This design would later be cited by victims' relatives in a civil case against Boeing.As the unresponsive jet entered Greek airspace two F-16 fighter jets intercepted. The air force reported back that the civilian craft's pilots were slumped over the controls. Passengers were similarly incapacitated. The plane reached Athens International Airport — an intermediate stop in Athens was planned — by itself and then began circling the area awaiting human input.That input eventually came in the form of a trainee pilot working on-board as a flight attendant. Investigators believe Andreas Prodromou had used multiple crew oxygen cylinders to be the last conscious person on board. The fighter pilots were able to watch him enter the cockpit. F-16 pilot Panayiotis Athanasopoulos was the last person to see Prodromou alive. He previously told the trial of initially receiving no response when signalling the jet in an attempt to get the pilots to follow him, then discovering the flight crew unconscious. The captain was out of sight. He testified he also signalled people wearing oxygen masks in the passenger cabin with similar lack of response. Prodromou, 25, entered the cockpit as the jet began losing altitude. After trying but failing to resuscitate Merten, the fighter pilots saw the trainee pilot take over the controls himself in a bid to save the plane. He was out of time. By then the aircraft had been in the air for two hours, and it ran out of fuel before it could reach the runway. Although many were deeply comatose from lack of oxygen, everyone on board was still alive when the plane crashed into a mountain at Grammatiko, north of Athens.Athanasopoulos says he gesticulated to Proprodomou and signalled him to land upon getting his attention. The trainee pilot simply pointed downwards, after which he "looked ahead and did not look towards me again as the plane went down". The airliner struck the ground levelly on its underside after straightening out moments before impact. It was torn apart.The following year saw an air accident report primarily citing human error, and an inquiry by ex-Judge Panayiotis Kallis. The Kallis report was never made public. Helios, which was renamed Ajet Airways, closed down in 2006. Helios and Boeing were sued by victims' relatives; they sought €76 million but reached a settlement for an undisclosed sum. The accident report had also blamed Boeing for an "ineffectiveness of measures" over the dual-purpose alarm system.The five defendants were charged in 2008. The defunct airline and four senior staff members each faced 119 counts of manslaughter, and alternative counts of causing death by a reckless, thoughtless or dangerous act. This gave a total of 1,190 charges. Manslaughter carries a potential life sentence with up to four years available on the lesser charge. "The charges concern two of the three most serious offences under the Cyprus penal code," deputy attorney general Akis Papasavvas said at the time.The prosecution case was that the pilots were unfit to fly and the defendants were negligent in letting them at the controls. The state prosecutor therefore needed to prove the actions of Merten and Charalambous caused the disaster, as well as that those in the dock were responsible for their employment and aware — or ought to have been aware — of inadequacies in their competence.The prosecution had noted the accused failed to seek references from Jet2, Merten's last employer. He lost that job owing to failings in his duties and was later the subject of Helios co-pilots' complaints. Charalambous was considered unlikely to achieve promotion to pilot and his ability to handle stress was questioned at trial.In reaching a majority decision, two of the three judges noted Helios chief executive Andreas Drakos and managing director Demetris Pantazis would be acquitted even if the prosecution proved its case as they were not responsible for employing the pair. This fell to co-accused operations manager George Kikkides and chief pilot Ianko Stoimenov.In any event, the verdict described "a dead-end for any procedure of identifying the competence of Merten" with only Jet2 among his previous employers being known to have a negative view of him. Subsequent official evaluations rated both him and Charalambous suitably competent to fly."The lack of any causal association between the defendants and the negligence they were charged with for the fatal accident completely disconnects the defendants with the accident," said the 170-page verdict. "Regardless... [of] how the charges are viewed, they remain groundless and without supporting evidence. It's judged that this reason is sufficient to dismiss all charges and acquit all defendants." Assize Court President Charis Solomonides read the decision: "we conclude, without reservation, that no case has been proven prima-facie against all the defendants in all the charges they face and therefore, all the defendants are acquitted and charges are dropped." Solomonides made repeated mention of an inability for the prosecution to link the pilots' actions to those on trial, and noted that therefore no assessment had been made of their performance that day.Judge Nicolas Santis dissented. Nonetheless, he too had criticisms of the prosecution. He said they failed to properly define 'competence' and called very few experts to testify. Victims' relatives shouted in the courtroom after he finished reading his opinion; cries included "killers!" and "is this justice?".Victims' relatives had in fact predicted the acquittal and blamed the state for what they characterised as a poorly presented case. Relatives’ Committee president Nicolas Yiasoumis said "It was common knowledge that proceedings were weak due to the phrasing of the charges." There were also renewed calls for publication of the Kallis report. Yiasoumis claimed the Kallis report reached different conclusions to those used at trial, and said "We did not believe they could be convicted on the basis of the argument that they had not employed the appropriate staff."Attorney General Petros Clerides initially said an appeal will be decided upon once the decision has been read, and that the Law Office was presently studying it. Yiasoumis said relatives may take Cyprus to a European court over the case once Cypriot legal matters are concluded. Clerides has now confirmed an appeal will be filed, which the prosecution has two weeks to do. He defended the performance of those who prosecuted "this titanic case". The appeal would be to the Supreme Court.Cypriot prosecutors have charged five people over the 2005 crash of Helios Airways Flight 522. The loss of the Boeing 737 killed all 121 people on board in what was the deadliest air disaster for both Greece and Cyprus."The charge sheet was submitted to the court [in Nicosia] today [Tuesday], and a response to the charges has been set for February 26," said deputy attorney general Akis Papasavvas. The names of those charged were not released, and they face charges of manslaughter and causing death by a reckless, thoughtless or dangerous act, which carry life and four year terms respectively. They all worked for Helios."The charges concern two of the three most serious offences under the Cyprus penal code," said Papasavvas. Families of the victims, who had already called for criminal prosecutions, are still carrying out a civil action against the Cypriot civil aviation authority and airframer Boeing. Helios closed in 2006, having been renamed Ajet Airways.The unresponsive aircraft, supposed to be flying between Lanarca to Prague, entered Greek airspace, where it was intercepted by two F-16 fighter jets on August 14, 2005.The F-16 pilots reported the airliner's pilots were slumped over the controls. After flying on autopilot for two hours the aircraft crashed near Athens despite the efforts of a flight attendant, who was training to become a pilot, to take control and save the jet.The subsequent investigation discovered that the pilots failed to adequately monitor the pressurisation system. The plane lost cabin pressure and hypoxia caused the incapacitation of the passengers and flight crew. It is thought that the conscious flight attendant had used multiple crew oxygen cylinders to outlast the others on board. Investigators also believe that the equipment had been left in the wrong setting after testing by maintenance engineers and never checked before flight.After failing to resuscitate the pilot-in-command, the trainee pilot turned off the autopilot and attempted an emergency landing at Athens International Airport, which the aircraft had been circling in a holding pattern awaiting human input. However, the aircraft ran out of fuel before reaching the runway.Cypriot prosecutors have announced that they intend to charge five people over the 2005 crash of Helios Airways Flight 522. The loss of the Boeing 737 killed all 121 people on board.Attorney General Petros Clerides announced the plans today, but did not indicate who was to be charged or exactly what the offenses were."We came to the conclusion that, from the evidence gathered, a criminal prosecution is justified against several people whom we consider accountable for the plane crash," he said at a press conference in Nicosia.The unresponsive aircraft, supposed to be flying between Lanarca to Prague, entered Greek airspace where it was intercepted by two F-16 fighter jets on August 14, 2005.The F-16 pilots reported the airliner's pilots were slumped over the controls. After flying on autopilot for two hours the aircraft crashed near Athens despite the efforts of a flight attendant, who was training to become a pilot, to take control and save the jet.The subsequent investigation discovered that the pilots failed to adequately monitor the pressurisation system. The plane lost cabin pressure and hypoxia caused the incapacitation of the passengers and flight crew. It is thought that the conscious flight attendant had used multiple crew oxygen cylinders to outlast the others on board. Investigators also believe that the equipment had been left in the wrong setting after testing by maintenance engineers and never checked before flight.After failing to resuscitate the pilot-in-command, the trainee pilot turned off the autopilot and attempted an emergency landing at Athens International Airport, which the aircraft had been circling in a holding pattern awaiting human input. However, the aircraft ran out of fuel before reaching the runway.The Czech government on Monday announced its diplomats had secured the release of a Polish citizen imprisoned for terrorism in Syria. The Polish foreign ministry on Tuesday confirmed the release of Leszek Panek, 54, from Wrocław.File:الحميدية - panoramio (4).jpgPolish media reports Panek, who vanished in late 2015 after crossing into Syria via Lebanon, suffers ill mental health. He had previously been travelling around Poland to warn of impending nuclear Armageddon. A statement from the Czech Presidential office said Panek's condition was "satisfactory".Panek requires crutches after he was shot during his arrest by the Syrian army in Homs. He faced the death penalty after being accused of "activities linked to terrorism". The Czech statement said he was released for humanitarian reasons. When Polish authorities learned of Panek's location last year they tried to negotiate his release before seeking Czech help.The Czech embassy is the only representation of any European Union nation in Syria and as such it represents all other EU members as well as the United States in the nation. Hynek Kmoníček, head advisor on foreign policy for the Czech President, said Ambassador Eva Filipi in Syria and her counterpart in Lebanon secured the release with their "empathy and energy". Filipi has been praised by Syrian Deputy Foreign Minister Faisal Mekdad who last year spoke of her commitment to Syria despite danger and political turmoil.Kmoníček travelled to Beirut to witness Panek's transfer to the Polish embassy in Lebanon. The Polish foreign ministry says he is expected home imminently, and that he went to Syria in order to convert people away from Islam to instead follow Christianity. A Czech Presidential spokesperson said negotiators worked in both Prague in the Czech Republic and Damascus in Syria, where the Czech embassy is located, for several months.On Wednesday, the lower house of the Czech Republic's parliament voted in favour of expanding legal firearms possession, asserting safety of the state and citizens. 139 of 168 deputies voted to amend the Czech constitution, allowing firearms possession previously banned under European Union (EU) orders.Per the amendment, citizens can legally obtain guns, and carry them for the security of the country during militant attacks. Interior Minister Milan Chovanec said, "We do not want to disarm our citizens at a time when the security situation in Europe is getting worse" in Wednesday's parliamentary debate. The EU reformed the gun law in December, prohibiting citizens from possessing short semi-automated arms with more than 20 rounds, and long semi-automated arms with more than ten rounds. The rule was enacted in April; the Czech Republic, Poland, and Luxembourg opposed it.The EU's decision to call for stricter law for firearms came after the Paris attack in November 2015, and explosions at Brussels' airport and subway system in March 2016. Chovanec said, "Show me a single terrorist attack in Europe perpetrated using a legally-owned weapon." The amendment waits for the approval of the senate and the president. The Czech government is to lodge a complaint against the EU's orders in the European Court of Justice by August 17.In recent years, unlike the Czech Republic, European countries including the United Kingdom, France and Belgium suffered militant attacks. Last year's Global Peace Index listed the Czech Republic sixth in the safest countries.Vít Bárta, the Minister of Transport for the Czech Republic, has been banned from driving. Bárta has been banned for six months after being caught driving with a fake licence plate.The minister was driving with a sticker with his registration number written on it glued to the hood of his car. He was caught in July, while driving his Maserati home from his own wedding. He claimed to have lost the original licence plate while driving along a dirt road. It has been reported that Bárta does not plan to appeal the ban.As well as his six-month driving ban, Bárta has also been fined 5,000 koruna. The charges were announced by Karel Hanzelka, a spokesman for the Transport Ministry.Bárta spoke to reporters about his ban. He joked around saying that he wouldn't really miss his licence and that his "wife will drive him around". He also said that he accepted his punishment.The British newspaper Daily Mail claims that Scotland Yard has offered the family of Jean Charles de Menezes, who was mistaken for a suicide bomber and shot by British police on July 22nd, one million US$ (£560,000) in compensation. The paper quotes his parent as saying: "We will not be bought off. We will not be silenced. This is not about money, this is about justice."According to Yasmin Khan, of the Justice4Jean campaign, John Yates, deputy assistant commissioner at Scotland Yard, flew to Brazil about two weeks ago and made the initial offer. Khan said: "Money was being bandied about but was not accepted. The family felt it was insulting and was not prepared to be bought off." She also stated that she considers Scotland Yard's alleged actions to be part of a cover-up. Menezes' cousin Alessandro Pereira told the Daily Mail: "The police knew Jean was innocent, yet they let my family suffer. They let us suffer. Ian Blair (Metropolitan Police commissioner) let us suffer. For three weeks, we have had to listen to lie after lie about Jean and how he was killed. The police met my family yet they still didn't tell us the truth. Did they think because we are poor Brazilians we do not deserve the truth?" Scotland Yard has denied the reports. A Spokesman said: "The only discussions we have had so far with the family of Jean Charles de Menezes have been about initial expenses. We strongly refute any suggestion that a figure anywhere in the region of one million dollars has been offered as compensation."Former CBS Evening News anchor Dan Rather has filed a US$70 million lawsuit against CBS, three former co-workers and the "corporate parent" of CBS. Rather resigned after a scandal in 2004 involving faked government documents about United States President George W. Bush's service to the U.S. National Guard.CEO of CBS Leslie Moonves and Viacom are also listed as defendants in the lawsuit. According to reports, Rather is suing CBS because after they made him resign his position, they did not grant him sufficient time on-air while he hosted 60 Minutes. In regards to the fake document scandal, Rather also claims that CBS "committed fraud [and tried to] pacify the White House" when they "commissioned a biased and incomplete investigation" which "seriously damaged" his reputation as a journalist.According to reports, Rather states that if successful in receiving a judgment in his favor, he will donate nearly all of the money to "causes that will further journalistic independence."About 90 law enforcement officers from multiple agencies broke up what they said was a rave party on public and private property in the Diamond Fork area of Spanish Fork canyon, an hour outside of Salt Lake City, Utah, at about 11:30 p.m. Saturday (5:30 Sunday UTC).According to the county, the Sheriff's Office had been investigating similar parties since the beginning of the season.  In a press release from the Sheriff's Office in Utah County, the department states that previous allegations of sexual abuse at other raves, as well as various firearm and theft violations, were reasons for the investigation.  The release continues on to state that the proper permit was not obtained before the event started.The promoters deny this allegation and insist that all permits were legally obtained before the event.Armed with semi-automatic assault rifles, tasers, and tear gas, the police used dogs to sweep the crowd for narcotics. At least one helicopter was used in the operation, which served as a large spotlight for the ground teams.  Prior to raiding the show, several unnamed police informants had reportedly told police that they had observed some "illegal activities". The promoter says the party took place on private property, named Child's Ranch, with express permission from the owner. The property owner has apparently had at least one previous lawsuit with police over a similar event.  Utah County requires a permit, bond and county commission approval for all gatherings with more than 250 people present and which can be expected to continue for 12 hours or more. DJ time slots and Pro Audio and Lighting contracts show that the party was scheduled to go on for no more than ten hours. According to a DJ at the event, "They presold 700 tickets and they expected up to 3,000 people total."  He added that by the time police arrived "the crowd was about 1,500". The police have publicly stated that only a permit from the health department was obtained, and that a Utah mass gathering permit was needed. The promoters have stated that they had the required permit, and have given a permit number (# 2005-11). Jay Stone, who handles mass gathering permits for the Utah County Health Department’s Bureau of Environmental Health Services, has confirmed that the permit was applied for and granted for the party. Officials also claim that the party had spilled over onto public land, and that more than 60 arrests were made in total - for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, underage drinking, drug possession and distribution, resisting arrest, assault on a police officer, disorderly conduct, and one instance of a weapons offense, a pistol which was found in the home of the private property owners.  Among the confiscated items and drugs found were cocaine, ecstasy, marijuana, mushrooms, alcohol, and drug paraphernalia.  Some of the drugs may include those confiscated from attendees by private security guards - who were also arrested. Amateur video from the scene shows a number of SWAT police (Sheriff's press release places the figure at 90) screaming orders at the DJs to "Shut it down now!" and yelling at others to "get out now, or I'll kick your ass in jail."  Armed police are also seen tackling two attendees, Alaisha Matagi and Paul Maka. It is unclear from the video footage whether these actions were provoked or not.  However, those shown on the two-minute long footage that are being forced to the ground do not appear to be resisting arrest. Both Matagi and Maka are charged with failure to obey a police officer and resisting arrest - Maka is also charged with interfering with police. Sheriff Jim Tracy stated in an email that both of them were tackled and arrested after assaulting a deputy, however, neither of them are being charged with assaulting a police officer.A first hand account from a DJ booked to play at the party stated that while police were arresting a man accused of possession, the suspect was beaten to the ground and continually "kicked in the ribs" by four armed "soldiers" dressed in camouflage.  The item was not shown on the video footage. According to the account, nobody resisted the policemen, and the crowd was orderly, but tear gas was thrown at the partiers as they attempted to leave as instructed. The DJ also states that police were attempting to confiscate video equipment, but an amateur video has still surfaced on the internet (see sources below). The video appears to have been taken near the DJ stand before it was moved to show more of the action.Several attendees felt they should have the right to attend an event where drugs may be present, so long as they don't personally use them. "While it may be true that some individuals choose to take drugs at said events like this, myself as well as many others choose to go for the music. Just like anything, you have bad apples, but you shouldn't cut down the tree," said one attendee. "Raves are not the only musical gatherings where drugs are used and distributed," said another.Other event-goers felt that the use of force in the shutdown was excessive - numerous eyewitness accounts by concertgoers describe people being beaten, tasered, or attacked with dogs. An email from Sheriff Jim Tracy stated that dogs and tasers were present at the raid, however, he also states that the tasers were not used on anyone, and that no dogs were deployed against concertgoers.One account from an attendee, identified as "Colby", states: "I saw at least two people being beaten on the ground while barking, snarling dogs are held just a few feet from them. Weapons were being pointed at unarmed, peaceful civilians. A friend of mine was forced at gunpoint to put his hands on his head and turn around, because he asked if he could get his things from the tent."Utah County sheriff's Sergeant Darren Gilbert also alleged that a 17-year-old girl was found overdosed on ecstasy, and was treated and released to her parents.  According to an advertisement for the event, an attorney was present at the party.  The local sheriff is scheduled to appear on Utah TV.The Norwegian and Danish embassies in Damascus, Syria have been set alight by crowds numbering in the thousands.  Reports indicate both embassies have been destroyed by fire. The building hosting the Danish embassy also contained the embassies of Chile and Sweden.The Danish embassy was initially torched, at a time when it was reportedly empty.  Officials and staff had been evacuated.  Attempts to disperse the protest outside the embassy using tear gas were carried out by Syrian police and it is reported that a number of protesters were taken to hospital.The attacks on the embassies may have been provoked by text messages which reportedly circulated among Syrians claiming that Danes would burn copies of the Qur'an in a Copenhagen square. Some of those who gathered outside the embassies in Damascus were reported to have been chanting, "With our blood and souls we defend you, O Prophet of God. There is no god but God and Muhammad is the messenger of God."Earlier in the week, text messaging circulated in Egypt that said;"Denmark wants to burn the sacred Qur'an Saturday in Copenhagen in response to the Muslim boycott," and "Send (this message on) and you will be rewarded," the text said.Despite claims in the text messages that the holy book of Islam would be burned on Saturday, there were no reports to indicate that it occurred.A recently created Danish clothing company is selling on the internet T-shirts in order to support the clandestine radio station of the Colombian guerrilla group Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the graphical workshop of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP). In fact the money will be used by these groups to carry on their terrorist activities. FARC activities include kidnappings, masacres, bombs, extortions and the drug trade.Fighters and Lovers is selling the T-shirts at 170 DKK (US$27.6), from which 35 DKK (US$5.7) are to be destinated to support both armed groups.Anna Duever, Fighters and Lovers PR chief, said to Spanish news agency EFE that their objective is to "defend freedom and social justice, which is FARC and PFLP are fighting for". Duever believes the fact the FARC has been included by the EU in its terrorist group list is a "political game". "We pay our taxes in Denmark, and that money is used for financing the troops our government has sent to Iraq. That's terrorism. Besides, in Colombia there's a regime oppressing population and torturing and killing its people", she said.Colombian Foreign Affairs Minister, Carolina Barco, said to local media that "financing terrorist groups is unacceptable and goes against all the international norms. Yesterday [Tuesday 19] our ambassador contacted the Danish government, we sent a protest note and have demanded an explanation." A year ago, a Danish NGO named Oprør ("Rebelion") stated it had donated money to the Colombian guerrilla. A new antiterrorism law in Denmark may punish it.In the early hours of Tuesday, Denmark's Politiets Efterretningstjeneste (PET) (Danish Security Intelligence Service), arrested three people for their connection to an alleged plot to murder one of the cartoonists from the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy.On September 30, 2005, Jyllands-Posten a Danish newspaper, published twelve cartoons depicting the prophet Muhammad. The paper solicited the cartoons for an article that explored "self-censorship" with regards to criticism of Islam. One of the cartoonists that responded was Kurt Westergaard, who contributed an image of Muhammed with a turban that looks like a bomb.PET says that Westergaard was the target of an alleged plot to murder him. At 4:30 a.m. CET (UTC+1), in a pre-dawn raid, they arrested three men in Aarhus, Denmark. The men, two Tunisians and one Danish citizen of Moroccan origin, are suspected of planning to kill Westergaard.PET commissioner Jakob Scharf said, "The purpose of the clampdown was to prevent a terror- related homicide. The clampdown occurred after a long period of surveillance."The Danish citizen has been released. It is thought that this means that the evidence against him is not very strong. However, the 40-year-old man "will continue to be of interest for the PET" says Scharf.The two other men, said to be 25 and 36 years of age, and who by all accounts were in Denmark legally, face deportation back to Tunisia. They are due to remain in custody until a judge can review their case on Thursday. "I have no idea about what is going to happen next. The ball is in the court of PET, and they are they ones who need to start talking and explain the meaning of all this. I have no idea what the next step is," said the public defender assigned to the Tunisians.The government and the PET has yet to present their case in court. As a result, it is unknown what evidence there is of a plot. Also, it is unknown if the men were under orders from groups outside of Denmark, as has been speculated by media.However, Scharf says that the pre-emptive police action "was to prevent a planned killing of one of the cartoonists behind the Muhammed-drawings." The primary objective was not to jail or deport anyone, but to prevent a murder.The Prime Minister of Denmark, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, commented: "Unfortunately, this case shows, that in Denmark, too, there are groups of extremists, who do not recognize and respect the founding principles upon which the Danish people's government is built."Meanwhile, the editors-in-chief at the three biggest newspapers in Denmark have seen the alleged plot as a threat to their freedom of speech. These papers are Jyllands-Posten, Politiken og Berlingske Tidende.  To reassert their rights they all plan to republish the controversial Muhammad drawings on Wednesday."We must in Danish media send a clear and unambiguous message to all, that might get the same insane thoughts, as those who would attack Kurt Westergaard," says Berlingske Tidende chief-editor Lisbeth Knudsen.Westergaard, who is 73 years old, has been under police protection since he received death-threats shortly after the original publication of the cartoons. "I fear for my life, when the police tell me there are certain people who are working with concrete plans to kill me," he says.Ikeda Kanako, a 21-year-old senior student of the Meiji Gakuin University and the first daughter of celebrity surgeon Yuko Ikeda, was kidnapped at about 1225 (UTC+9), June 26, 2006, in Shibuya, Tokyo.A bullet was fired and one officer slightly cut when police stormed a Kawasaki apartment to rescue the girl.Kanako was dressed in a white light half-sleeved cardigan, blue jeans with a bistre belt made of leather, a spring green camisole and carried a bag of Vuitton when she was abducted at a bus stop.She was found unharmed 13 hours later by Japanese police at a condominium located in Nakahara-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa. The young woman's make-up was not disordered; Kanako's long brown fringe was not disheveled at all and she was wearing what she had been when she was kidnapped. The kidnapping of Kanako was a big story in Japanese media in June, 2006. The story appeared in many newspapers as the front-page news on June 27, 2006.Kanako and her kidnappers had been in touch with her mother using Kanako's mobile phone. The effort to free her was helped greatly by a woman who witnessed the moment Kanako was taken; she wrote down the license plate of the van and other details.Police traced mobile phone calls and were able to locate the van in Kawasaki where they detained two of the kidnappers as they went shopping.One conspirator Li Yong, 29, from China, led the policemen to the apartment and tricked Kaneo Ito, 49, from Japan, to open the door. Ito managed to discharge one bullet before being restrained by an assistant police inspector, the first man in the room.The other man involved in the kidnap of Kanako was Choi Gi Ho, 54, from South Korea. Kanato was freed unharmed.The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department arrested three men on suspicion of conspiring to kidnap a woman and hold her to a reported 300 million yen ransom.Davao City militant leaders known as Davao 8 announced last Monday, January 29, their vindication from the rebellion charges thrown against them March last year as police officers release a notarized apology and retraction letter last week.In a press conference headed by Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (BAYAN) Southern Mindanao, the militants are glad with what they described as a "tactical victory of the street parliamentarians in the struggle for justice and in the assertion of the rights and welfare ofthe ordinary Filipinos."Last year, eight local progressive leaders were linked to rebellion charges filed against Bayan Muna party-list Rep. Joel Virador in the heat of the crackdown against progressive groups during the pronouncement of the State of National Emergency or Presidential Proclamation 1017.In reaction to the accusations, Davao 8 filed before the People's Law Enforcement Board an administrative case against two (2) Criminal Investigation and Detention Group Region 11 (CIDG-11) operatives April 6 last year.BAYAN secretary general Ariel B. Casilao, Bayan Muna party-list regional coordinator Jeppie Ramada, Kalipunan ng Damayang Mahihirap (Urban Poor Union, KADAMAY) Davao City chairperson Editha Duterte, Samahan ng mga Maralitang Kababaihang Nagkakaisa (United Urban Poor Women, SAMAKANA) Davao City Chapter chairperson Corazon Espinoza, Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas (Peasant Movement of the Philippines, KMP) regional chairperson Antonio Flores and then Anakbayan (Youth of the Nation) leader Lorie Ann A. Cascaro filed affidavit-complaints attached with a copy of the false and perjured affidavit of Police Officer 3 Franco Duca and Chief Investigator 2 Rex Rodriguez both officers of the CIDG-11, Camp Leonor, San Pedro St., Davao City for their false, baseless and malicious accusation hurled against the eight leaders of progressive organizations in Davao City.The said police officers of the CIDG submitted an apology and retraction letter duly notarized to the accused progressive leaders and the case was amicably settled.Casilao said that the result of the case is a tactical victory for progressive organizations in the city. "Our vindication proves that what we fight for are the legitimate demands and causes of the people," he added.He cited this as proof that the police and the military are crafting charges against them to discredit their organizations despite the continuing crackdown against progressive militant leaders across the country."All they could produce are fabricated cases against us to blind the people from the truth. They continue to discredit us, tag us terrorists, when the real terrorists are being coddled in Malacañang, with its fascist, anti-people and pro-US policies," Casilao said.British Prime Minister David Cameron has stated that a change in police strategy is appropriate following what many feel to be an inadequate response to the rioting that has overrun many cities across England. Riots started in Tottenham on Saturday night after the fatal shooting by police of Mark Duggan, a 29-year-old taxi driver who the Independent Police Complaints Commission state was in possession of a handgun, but did not fire it.During the Parliamentary debate on the riots, David Milliband, the Labour leader, called on Cameron to reconsider cuts to police budgets. Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne described the communities where the rioting occurred as being "left behind" and "cut-off from the economic life-blood of the rest of the country", and called for solutions to the "deep-seated social problems"One avenue the Prime Minister is said to be considering is changing regulations on social media services like Twitter, Facebook and BlackBerry Messenger, the latter being used to communicate between groups of rioters. The Open Rights Group and Big Brother Watch came out in opposition to any plans to restrict communication using social media, with Jim Killock of the Open Rights Group warning that such regulation would be abused by the police and private companies.In Southampton, England, three people were arrested by police for the suspicion of using Twitter or BlackBerry Messenger to encourage the rioting. The government is "working with the police, the intelligence services and industry to look at whether it would be right to stop people communicating via these Web sites and services when we know they are plotting violence, disorder and criminality," said Cameron.The Prime Minister also announced that he would consider using the army to support the police in controlling future rioting, and also that he would consult with William J. Bratton, CBE, who had been the chief of police in Los Angeles and a police commissioner in New York City and Boston. Bratton is quoted as saying that arrests are not the only way to solve societal problems which lead to rioting and unrest: "You can't arrest your way out of the problem."Australian David Hicks, held for the past five years at the U.S. Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba, was flown to Adelaide, South Australia Sunday on board an Australian government-chartered aircraft. Hicks is now in the custody of South Australian Correctional Services.At a recent U.S. war crimes tribunal, Hicks pleaded guilty to providing material support to a listed terrorist organisation and was sentenced to seven years in prison. As part of the plea agreement, all but nine months of the sentence was suspended, which he will be allowed to serve out in an Australian prison."He [Hicks] has been transported to Yatala Labour Prison, where he will serve out his custodial sentence," said Alexander Downer, Foreign Minister and Philip Ruddock, Attorney-General in a joint press release. "Law enforcement and security agencies are working together to determine appropriate security arrangements. Consistent with longstanding practice, the Government does not intend to detail these measures, but the community should be assured that public safety is the primary concern."His lawyer, David McLeod, told reporters: "David is well and he enjoyed the trip...He was very glad to be back on Australian soil."Hicks was the first of hundreds of prisoners to be tried by the U.S. war crimes tribunal at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp in Cuba. Under the international transfer of prisoners scheme, Hicks was allowed to serve out the remaining time of his sentence in his home country. A contentious part of his sentence was a ban, or gag-order, placed on Hicks to prevent him from speaking with the media for a period of one year from the time he pleaded guilty, which was in March, 2007. It is unknown whether the U.S. gag-order could be legally enforced in Australia. For the five years Hicks spent in detention at Guantanamo Bay, his family and some supporters in Australia had been lobbying the Australian government to secure the quick return of Hicks.A small number of protesters waited outside the prison, with the media, for the arrival of Hicks. Some of the protesters were labeling Hicks a political prisoner and criticized the U.S. policy of holding people as unlawful combatants for so long without trial. "David Hicks is a political prisoner and it is just a complete human rights violation that our government can completely neglect one of its own citizens and leave him to rot in Guantanamo Bay," said Steve Patroni, one of the protesters.At his trial, Hicks admitted he attended training camps in Afghanistan, conducted surveillance of the U.S. Embassy in Kabul and revealed that he had met Osama bin Laden, leader of Al-Qaeda. He had participated in fighting against the U.S. and its allies in Afghanistan in late 2001, and was caught while trying to flee the area.Hicks is expected to be released from Australian prison by December, 2007.David S. Touretzky, prominent free speech activist and critic of Scientology, discussed his opinions on the recent Internet backlash against the Church of Scientology in an interview with former Scientologist and Wikinews reporter Nicholas Turnbull. The recent conflict on the Internet between critics of Scientology and the Church has been spurred on in declarations by a nebulous Internet entity using the name Anonymous that the Church of Scientology "will be destroyed". Anonymous has directed recent protests at Scientology centres across the world, which have attracted significant numbers of individuals supporting the cause. In recent e-mail correspondence with Wikinews, a representative of the Church of Scientology declared that the Church considers the activities of Anonymous to be illegal, and that Anonymous "will be handled and stopped".Touretzky, a research professor in artificial intelligence and computational neuroscience at Carnegie Mellon University, has been a prominent critic of the Church of Scientology since mid-1995, and has been protesting against Scientology vociferously since then; he has also run websites that publish material that Scientology wishes to keep suppressed from the public eye, such as extracts from Scientology's formerly-confidential Operating Thetan (OT) materials. Touretzky views the actions of the Church of Scientology as being "a threat to free speech", and has endured harassment by the Church of Scientology for his activities.  The Church of Scientology continues to suffer damage to its public reputation through increased exposure on the Internet and vocal protests by Scientology critics such as Prof. Touretzky. A recent event that focused intense attention on Scientology's totalitarian attitude was the leak of an internal Church of Scientology propaganda video to the Internet video sharing site YouTube, in which celebrity Scientologist Tom Cruise spoke heavily in Scientology's jargon and stated that that "we [Scientology] are the authorities" on resolving the difficulties of humanity. The declaration of war by Anonymous followed shortly after this leak, in the form of a video posted to the Internet. The ongoing dispute, cast by some as Scientology versus the Internet, brought Scientology terms such as  "SP" (Suppressive Person, an enemy of Scientology) and "KSW" (Keeping Scientology Working) into general usage by non-Scientologists from the late 1990s onwards; increased attention has been drawn to Scientology by the release of the Cruise video in addition to media coverage. This focus has caused an even greater propagation of these terms across the outside world, as Touretzky comments in the interview.Wikinews asked Prof. Touretzky about the impact that the activities of Anonymous will have on Scientology, the public relations effect of the Tom Cruise video, the recent departure of individuals from the Church of Scientology's executive management, the strategies that Anonymous will employ and Touretzky's experiences of picketing the Church.David Witt, father-in-law of Floyd Landis, the winner of the 2006 Tour De France, has died. Witt was found dead in his car in a parking garage on August 16. He died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, San Diego Police said. He was 57.Witt who was married to Rose, the mother of Amber, Floyd Landis' wife, introduced Amber to Landis. Witt was an amateur cyclist who became friends with Landis after having the same coach. At one time, they were even roommates.Witt and his wife co-own the "Hawthorn's" restaurant in San Diego and it is adorned with Landis memorabilia, including his jerseys and magazine covers. The two had also attended the Tour de France where they witnessed Floyd's victory.Floyd Landis did win the 2006 Tour de France, but the result is contested after he tested positive in a doping test. He is widely expected to be stripped of the title.On Tuesday the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) raided several dorms, homes and apartments in connection with a drug operation that focused on San Diego University campus. Several Theta Chi members have been arrested for possession and intent to distribute. In a press release the DEA states that a member of Theta Chi sent out a mass text message to his "faithful customers" stating that he and his "associates" would be unable to sell cocaine while they were in Las Vegas, Nevada for a fraternity formal, according to the DEA. The text promoted a cocaine "sale" and listed the reduced prices on bulk quantities. "Attn faithful customers both myself and my associates will be in Vegas this coming weekend," the 19-year-old Theta Chi member known only as "Kenny" wrote in the text message. "So stock up, we will be back Sunday night." The DEA made over 100 drug purchases through this operation before its May 6th raid.In response to this incident the Theta Chi National Fraternity ordered an immediate Suspension of the San Diego chapter. On May 7, SDSU officials stated that only 33 of those arrested were students, and that any inflated numbers issued originally to the press included students arrested months earlier, in some cases for simple possession.In Auckland's Harbour, a suitcase containing a dead body has been found. Police, first suspecting a possible kidnap and ransom plot, have now arrested two male students from China. They have not been accused of any crime, but they are in custody and "are helping police", as Detective Inspector Bernie Hollewand told IOL reporters.Specialists say the body had been dead for about 24 hours by the time it was found and had multiple injuries. Forensic police believe that the murder took place in an inner-city Auckland hotel.John Darwin, a canoeist who has been missing for over five years after disappearing while canoeing in 2002, has been arrested by Hampshire Police after walking into a police station in London, England. He is to be charged with fraud in connection with his disappearance in 2002.It is believed that he has been charged with fraud after a photo of Mr Darwin was released in a tabloid newspaper, the  Daily Mirror, apparently showing him in Panama with his wife last year.  His wife, who recently moved to Central America denies these claims saying that she had claimed the life insurance money and moved as she thought he would never return.Detective Superintendent Hutchinson, the officer in charge of the case, said that "He was in apparent good health, tanned, well nourished and dressed," when he walked into the West End Central Police station in London four days ago. He also said that the disappearance of Mr Darwin "raised a lot of questions."A public appeal for information about this incident was launched and it was made clear that the police believe that someone knows what happened to Mr Darwin. Also the police have confirmed that they had recently re-opened the investigation into Mr Darwin's disappearance due to "new evidence" being received.Mrs Darwin has said that she may struggle to repay the £300,000 she claimed on the life insurance as she has started to spend some of the money.The bodies of two children were found this morning in a car in Heathfield, East Sussex, in the United Kingdom. A 43-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of the murders.The boy and girl were both less than five years old, and were discovered at 11:46 this morning (GMT) when Sussex police officers forced their way into the vehicle, which was parked on Mill Close in Heathfield. The woman, who has yet to be identified, had visited Heathfield police station earlier this morning to report "an incident", and was later arrested on suspicion of murder. The police say that they have identified the bodies. The identities will be revealed when the post mortem examinations take place, which is scheduled for next Thursday.The woman was taken to Eastbourne District General Hospital, and has not yet been interviewed by the police. She is believed to be from Surrey but have connections with the Heathfield area. Mill Close, the road on which the incident occurred, has been closed, according to a police spokeswoman, who said, "An investigation is now under way and the area around the scene is cordoned off." Chief Inspector Julia Pope, Wealden district policing commander, said, "This is a very tragic incident, but I would like to reassure people that it is fully contained and there is no threat to anyone in the area. We will move to restore normality and access to Mill Close as quickly as possible."  A spokesman for the South East Coast Ambulance Service said, "We sent an ambulance and two response cars but sadly two young children were pronounced dead at the scene."Brussels —A new report by the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) documents 129 cases where media workers have been killed because of their work during 2004. They expect the number to increase as more information reaches them. This could make 2004 the deadliest year ever.49 casualties (close to 40%) occurred in Iraq, making it by far the deadliest country for journalists. At least 20 of those appeared to be cases where journalists were directly targeted because of their profession.Another country that deserved special attention was the Philippines, where 13 journalists appear to have been assassinated in separate incidents because of their reporting. None of the murderers have been apprehended by the police. In Nepal, two journalists were killed by security forces and one by the rebels. Another journalist was killed by a land mine.The fire that broke out in a Parisian building that housed black immigrants may have been caused by criminals who committed arson, authorities announced. Activist groups denounce housing and immigration policies.In the night of August 25 to August 26, a fire broke out a run-down apartment building located at 20, Bd Vincent Auriol in Paris, France. The building housed a number of immigrant families from Africa. These families had squatted the building illegally, until the building was bought by the local government and ran through some charity; even then, the building did not respect applicable safety norms.Experts have examined the situation. While no hydrocarbons (fuel etc.) were found on the scene, the speed of the fire seems to indicate a criminal origin. For this reason, the prosecution service of Paris (parquet) opened a criminal investigation for "arson resulting in death". An investigating magistrate has been named. Criminals face a maximal penalty of life imprisonment, though lesser criminal qualifications may be retained during the course of the enquiry.On Saturday 4, protests were staged denouncing the recent fires that killed black immigrant families housed in unsafe buildings. Left-wing groups such as the Revolutionary Communist League denounced the immigration, workforce and housing policies of the center-right government, as well as its center-left predecessor, as regressive and promoting racism.Heavy fighting in the Somali capital of Mogadishu between government troops and local police has killed at least thirteen people and injured another fourteen.The clashes began yesterday in the Hamarjajab district when a dispute started between the police and army. Abdullahi Mo'alim Kerow, a police officer, described the incident to Reuters; "[t]he clashes came after some of the government troops started to rob a civilian car and the police were trying to stop it. We have collected bodies of nine government troops [...] and three unidentified civilians."However, conflicting accounts claim it was police attempting to hijack trucks carrying food aid, and the army were intervening to prevent the theft.According to Kerow, the injured were hospitalised, and the clash stopped shortly after. Ten of the wounded were civilians, and one later died, said Alie Muse Abdi, coordinator of ambulance services in the capital.New 'deadly' sexual enhancement products have been found in Singaporean markets and can cause serious side effects on users.The Health Sciences Authority (HSA) announced the presence of the illegal drugs, known as Power 1 Walnut, Santi bovine penis erecting capsule, Zhong Hua Niu Bian and fake Cialis, which have been discovered over the past 3 months. Santi bovine penis erecting capsule has been found to contain high amounts of glibenclamide, a potent drug used to treat diabetes. The tablets also contain sildenafil and tadalafil - potent western medicines used to treat erectile dysfunction. Zhong Hua Niu Bian also contains sildenafil and glibenclamide.High consumption of the tablets can be potentially deadly as the glibenclamide in the capsules can lead to drastically reduced blood sugar levels which can lead to seizures, stroke, coma or death. Consuming half of a Power 1 Walnut capsule has led to unconsciousness and frothing at the mouth.Consumption of Power 1 Walnut has led to the death of a middle age man last week who fell into a coma. Currently, one death and two cases of coma have been reported from the total of 89 hospitalised cases linked with the consumption of the illegal drugs. It has been revealed that patients obtained the drugs by purchasing them from illegal peddlers located in various parts of Singapore.The HSA has advised people to stop consuming the drugs and to report on any cases of consumption to them.Eight people have been killed in a school shooting in Jokela, Finland according to an official police briefing. The victims are five male students and two female students and the principal of the Jokela High School. At least 12 people were injured from glass and other injuries during evacuation, but are not in serious danger. Besides the eight that perished, only one other person has been reported to have received a gunshot wound, but is also reported to be out of serious danger. At a news conference at 18:00 EET (UTC+2), police said that they arrested the shooter after a siege situation at the Jokela School Centre. The shooter is said to be an 18-year-old male student, named as Pekka-Eric Auvinen, who attended the school. The police say that the shooter had probably shot himself at some point in an apparent suicide attempt. He died at nearby Töölö Hospital at 22:14 EET. The police confirmed that they had not used weapons during the incident.Apparently, the killer had uploaded a home-made movie to YouTube announcing the "massacre" one day prior to the shooting. His profile featured several movies regarding an ongoing depression and unsuccessful treatment with SSRIs. Additionally, some movies of him shooting his new gun had been uploaded weeks prior to the shooting. Several hours after the event, YouTube decided to suspend his account due to terms of use violation. Auvinen also had a personal website which featured images, music and documents, including a manifesto. The site has since been removed by the service provider. In the manifesto, he called for a war on the "weak-minded masses" and said he was willing to die for his cause. "I cannot say that I am of the same race as this miserable, arrogant and selfish human race. No! I have evolved a step higher," he wrote.Prayer vigils are being held at churches around Finland. The Ministry of the Interior has said that flags should be flown at half-mast from 8 o'clock in the morning until sundown on Thursday.The Jokela School Centre has 460 students between the ages 12 and 18. Jokela is in the Tuusula municipality and is located just north of Helsinki.Kentucky State Police said yesterday that the September 12 death of census worker Bill Sparkman was suicide.  His body was found naked in a Clay County, Kentucky cemetery, with "Fed" written on his chest and his census identification taped to his neck.  This prompted widespread speculation that anti-government sentiment was responsible.  However, police now believe that Sparkman deliberately killed himself, and tried to make it look like murder so his son could receive an insurance payout.  Trooper Don Trosper, a Kentucky State Police spokesman, said, "[w]e believe this was an intentional act. We believe the aim was to take his own life."This conclusion is based on the police's analysis of several elements of the crime scene; Sparkman was not hanged in the typical manner; his knees were less than six inches off the ground, and he could have avoided death simply by standing up before he suffocated. Captain Lisa Rudzinski, a leader of the investigation stated, "We do not believe he was placed in that position."  The letters of the word "Fed" were written bottom first, which is unlikely if they had been written by an attacker.  The rag found in his mouth contained only Sparkman's DNA.  Police also believed he left glasses taped to his head so he could see while preparing.Police suspect Sparkman's motives included debt, failure to find a full-time job, and a desire to provide for his son through his life insurance.Wikinews has learned through an investigation that anonymous edits on the Wikipedia article Chris Benoit were added about the death of his wife Nancy Benoit 14 hours before police entered the Benoit home to find the former professional World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Canadian wrestler and his family dead.An anonymous edit from IP address 69.120.111.23 using the Internet service provider Optimum Online was made at 04:01 UTC on Chris Benoit's Wikipedia article. On a paragraph about an earlier fight: "However, Chris Benoit was replaced… due to personal issues,…", the anonymous editor added " stemming from the death of his wife Nancy." The edit was reversed just under one hour later with the comment: "Need a reliable source. Saying that his wife died is a pretty big statement, you need to back it up with something."Then just one hour later after the first edit reversion, another anonymous edit by 125.63.148.173 using unwiredAustralia.com.au, a wireless Internet service provider, was made adding about the aforementioned personal issues: "which according to several pro wrestling websites is attributed to the passing of Benoit's wife, Nancy." That edit was reverted just under 20 minutes later, with the comment: "Saying 'several pro wrestling websites' is still not reliable information."Further investigation shows that the IP address used to make the first edit is located in Connecticut, but the IP address is not linked to any computers or servers used by the WWE, but according to Cary Bass, Volunteer Coordinator for the Wikimedia Foundation, the IP address matches a location in Stamford, Connecticut where the WWE headquarters is located. Bass also informed the local authorities in Atlanta about the unusual edits, but it is not known if the edits were investigated by the police. The second edit was made by a computer in Australia from a wireless network."It didn't become apparent until someone put the pieces together and realized that the comment was made by someone who apparently knew about the murders," added Bass.Fayette County Sheriff deputy Lt. Tommy Pope stated that police found the family at about 2:30 p.m. ET, which is 18:30 UTC, on Monday when the WWE called police and asked them to do a "welfare check" after employees of WWE received calls and text messages from Chris Benoit. Early Sunday, Benoit sent repeated text messages that read "My physical address is 130 Green Meadow Lane, Fayetteville Georgia. 30215." Another text message reportedly said "The dogs are in the enclosed pool area. Garage side door is open." The messages were sent around 4:00 a.m. ET.Earlier, on Saturday afternoon, Chris Benoit placed a series of calls that explained why he missed his flight to Houston. The stories he told were mostly about his wife and son being sick with food poisoning and vomiting. Although, in one call he said that he and Nancy were at the hospital to be with Daniel who was hospitalized. Throughout he insisted that he would attend that live event in Houston.When he missed the live event on Sunday, and the WWE couldn't get hold of him, they contacted authorities. Police say that Benoit strangled his wife on Friday, smothered his son on late Friday or early Saturday, and then hanged himself inside his weight room on Sunday or Monday.The Wikinews investigation is unable to conclude whether the anonymous editors had inside information about the death of Nancy Benoit.This is not the first time Benoit's article has been edited to show false or unsourced information, as the article's edit history indicates a long history of promotional spam and vandalism. Around the time of the edits, the article contained a hidden warning to editors of the section mentioned, warning against adding rumours and speculations. For the time being, Benoit's article has been protected in an attempt to stop the addition of fraudulent information.Gloria Arroyo, President of the Philippines, has signed legislation abolishing the death penalty. This move comes on the eve of a visit to see Pope Benedict XVI and only two weeks after the legislation was confirmed by Congress. The change in sentencing law will lead to more than 1,200 prisoners having their sentences changed to life imprisonment.Arroyo has made assurances that "we shall continue to devote the increasing weight of our resources to the prevention and control of serious crimes, rather than take the lives of those who commit them". She was keen to emphasise that her country was not soft on terrorism.In the Philippines, the death penalty was originally abolished in 1987, but it was reintroduced in 1993. Since then seven people have been executed. Abolition of the death penalty has generally occurred in correlation with increasing democratisation in nation-states around the world. As of 2005, a majority of states (122) were abolitionist, and a minority (73) retained the death penalty.The Delhi high court awarded the death sentence today to Santosh Kumar Singh, who was convicted of rape and murder of a 23-year old Delhi University law student, Priyadarshini Mattoo on January 23, 1996.The order by the High Court Division Bench comprising Justices R. S. Sodhi and P. K. Bhasin came after three-hour long arguments by defence lawyers and prosecutors over the quantum of sentence. Singh, Matoo's senior in the law faculty of Delhi University, was convicted on the rape and murder charges by the Delhi high court on October 17, 2006.The court said, "Santosh Singh had been given many chances to reform by the police when Priyadarshini had complained that he was stalking her. However, he didn't mend his ways and eventually raped and killed her at her Vasant Kunj flat in Southwest Delhi." The Bench further observed, "We are of the opinion that a case of this kind in which the crime is committed in a pre-meditated approach and grotesque manner, the convict deserves nothing other than death penalty."On Thursday, the municipal intermediate people's court in Shijiazhuang, Hebei province, China pronounced sentences for 21 defendants implicated in the 2008 Chinese milk scandal which killed at least six infants and sickened nearly 300,000 others.In the local court's decision, 17 accused were indicted for the crimes of "producing, adding melamine-laced 'protein powder' to infant milk or selling tainted, fake and substandard milk to Sanlu Group or 21 other dairy companies, including six who were charged with the crime of endangering public security by dangerous means." Four other courts in Wuji County, in Hebei, China had also tried cases on the milk scandal.Zhang Yujun, age 40, of Quzhou County (Hebei), who produced and sold melamine-laced "protein powder" in the milk scandal, was convicted of endangering public security and sentenced to death by the Shijiazhuang intermediate people's court.The court also imposed the penalty of death upon Geng Jinping, who added 434 kg of melamine-laced powder to about 900 tons of fresh milk to artificially increase the protein content. He sold the tainted milk to Sanlu and some other dairy companies. His brother Geng Jinzhu was sentenced to eight years imprisonment for assisting in adding the melamine. A suspended capital punishment sentence, pending a review, with two years probation, was handed down to Gao Junjie. Under the law, a suspended death sentence is equivalent to life imprisonment with good behavior. The court ruled that Gao designed more than 70 tons of melamine-tainted "protein powder" in a Zhengding County underground factory near Shijiazhuang. His wife Xiao Yu who assisted him, was also sentenced to five years imprisonment.Sanlu Group General Manager Tian Wenhua, 66, a native of Nangang Village in Zhengding County, who was charged under Articles 144 and 150 of the criminal code, was sentenced to life imprisonment for producing and selling fake or substandard products. She was also fined 20 million yuan (US$2.92 million) while Sanlu, which has been declared bankrupt, was fined 49.37 million yuan ($7.3 million). Tian Wenhua plans to appeal the guilty verdict on grounds of lack of evidence, said her lawyer Liang Zikai on Saturday. Tian testified last month during her trial that she decided not to stop production of the tainted milk products because a Fonterra designated board member handed her a document which states that a maximum of 20 mg of melamine was allowed in every kg of milk in the European Union. Liang opined that Tian should instead be charged with "liability in a major accident," which is punishable by up to seven years imprisonment, instead of manufacturing and selling fake or substandard products. According to Zhang Deli, chief procurator of the Hebei Provincial People's Procuratorate, Chinese police have arrested another 39 people in connection with the scandal. Authorities last year also arrested 12 milk dealers and suppliers who allegedly sold contaminated milk to Sanlu, and six people were charged with selling melamine. In late December, 17 people involved in producing, selling, buying and adding melamine to raw milk went on trial. Tian Wenhua and three other Sanlu executives appeared in court in Shijiazhuang, charged with producing and selling fake or substandard milk contaminated with melamine. Tian pleaded guilty, and told the court during her 14-hour December 31 trial that she learned about the tainted milk complaints and problems with her company's BeiBei milk powder from consumer complaints in mid-May. She then apparently led a working team to handle the case, but her company did not stop producing and selling formula until about September 11. She also did not report to the Shijiazhuang city government until August 2.The court also sentenced Zhang Yanzhang, 20, to the lesser penalty of life imprisonment. Yanzhang worked with Zhang Yujun, buying and reselling the protein powder. The convicts were deprived of their political rights for life.Xue Jianzhong, owner of an industrial chemical shop, and Zhang Yanjun were punished with life imprisonment and 15 years jail sentence respectively. The court found them responsible for employment of workers to produce about 200 tons of the tainted infant milk formula, and selling supplies to Sanlu, earning more than one million yuan. "From October 2007 to August 2008, Zhang Yujun produced 775.6 tons of 'protein powder' that contained the toxic chemical of melamine, and sold more than 600 tons of it with a total value of 6.83 million yuan [$998,000]. He sold 230 tons of the "protein powder" to Zhang Yanzhang, who will stay behind bars for the rest of his life under the same charge. Both Zhangs were 'fully aware of the harm of melamine' while they produced and sold the chemical, and should be charged for endangering the public security," the Court ruled.The local court also imposed jail sentences of between five years and 15 years upon three top Sanlu executives. Wang Yuliang and Hang Zhiqi, both former deputy general managers, and Wu Jusheng, a former raw milk department manager, were respectively sentenced to 15 years, eight years and five years imprisonment. In addition, the court directed Wang to pay multi-million dollar fines. In December, Wang Yuliang had appeared at the Shijiazhuang local court in a wheelchair, after what the Chinese state-controlled media said was a failed suicide attempt.The judgment also states "the infant milk powder was then resold to private milk collectors in Shijiazhuang, Tangsan, Xingtai and Zhangjiakou in Hebei." Some collectors added it to raw milk to elevate apparent protein levels, and the milk was then resold to Sanlu Group."The Chinese government authorities have been paying great attention to food safety and product quality," Yu Jiang Yu, spokesperson for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said. "After the case broke out, the Chinese government strengthened rules and regulations and took a lot of other measures to strengthen regulations and monitor food safety," she added.In the People's Republic of China, the intermediate people's court is the second lowest local people's court. Under the Organic Law of the People's Courts of the People's Republic of China, it has jurisdiction over important local cases in the first instance and hear appeal cases from the basic people's court.The 2008 Chinese milk scandal was a food safety incident in China involving milk and infant formula, and other food materials and components, which had been adulterated with melamine. In November 2008, the Chinese government reported an estimated 300,000 victims have suffered; six infants have died from kidney stones and other acute renal infections, while 860 babies were hospitalized. Melamine is normally used to make plastics, fertilizer, coatings and laminates, wood adhesives, fabric coatings, ceiling tiles and flame retardants. It was added by the accused to infant milk powder, making it appear to have a higher protein content. In 2004, a watered-down milk resulted in 13 Chinese infant deaths from malnutrition.The tainted milk scandal hit the headlines on 16 July, after sixteen babies in Gansu Province who had been fed on milk powder produced by Shijiazhuang-based Sanlu Group were diagnosed with kidney stones. Sanlu is 43% owned by New Zealand's Fonterra. After the initial probe on Sanlu, government authorities confirmed the health problem existed to a lesser degree in products from 21 other companies, including Mengniu, Yili, and Yashili.From August 2 to September 12 last year Sanlu produced 904 tonnes of melamine-tainted infant milk powder. It sold 813 tonnes of the fake or substandard products, making 47.5 million yuan ($13.25 million). In December, Xinhua reported that the Ministry of Health confirmed 290,000 victims, including 51,900 hospitalized. It further acknowledged reports of "11 suspected deaths from melamine contaminated milk powder from provinces, but officially confirmed 3 deaths."Sanlu Group which filed a bankruptcy petition, that was accepted by the Shijiazhuang Intermediate People's Court last month, and the other 21 dairy companies, have proposed a 1.1 billion yuan ($160 million) compensation plan for court settlement. The court appointed receiver was granted six months to conclude the sale of Sanlu's assets for distribution to creditors. The 22 dairy companies offered "families whose children died would receive 200,000 yuan ($29,000), while others would receive 30,000 yuan ($4,380) for serious cases of kidney stones and 2,000 yuan ($290) for less severe cases."Sanlu stopped production on September 12 amid huge debts estimated at 1.1 billion yuan. On December 19, the company borrowed 902 million yuan for medical and compensation payment to victims of the scandal. On January 16, Sanlu paid compensation of 200,000 yuan (29,247 U.S. dollars) to Yi Yongsheng and Jiao Hongfang, Gangu County villagers, the parents of the first baby who died. "Children under three years old, who had drunk tainted milk and had disease symptoms could still come to local hospitals for check-ups, and would receive free treatment if diagnosed with stones in the urinary system," said Mao Qun'an, spokesman of the Ministry of Health on Thursday, adding that  "the nationwide screening for sickened children has basically come to an end." "As of Thursday, about 90% of families of 262,662 children who were sickened after drinking the melamine-contaminated milk products had signed compensation agreements with involved enterprises and accepted compensation," the China Dairy Industry Association said Friday, without revealing, however, the amount of damages paid. The Association (CDIA) also created a fund for payment of the medical bills for the sickened babies until they reach the age of 18. Chinese data shows that those parents who signed the state-backed compensation deal include the families of six children officially confirmed dead, and all but two of 891 made seriously ill, the report said. Families of 23,651 children made ill by melamine tainted milk, however, have not received the compensation offer, because of "wrong or untrue" registration details, said Xinhua.Several Chinese parents, however, demanded higher levels of damages from the government. Zhao Lianhai announced Friday that he and three other parents were filing a petition to the Ministry of Health. The letter calls for "free medical care and follow-up services for all victims, reimbursement for treatment already paid for, and further research into the long-term health effects of melamine among other demands," the petition duly signed by some 550 aggrieved parents and Zhao states. "Children are the future of every family, and moreover, they are the future of this country. As consumers, we have been greatly damaged," the petition alleged. Chinese investigators also confirmed the presence of  melamine in nearly 70 milk products from more than 20 companies, quality control official Li Changjiang admitted.In addition, a group of Chinese lawyers, led by administrator Lin Zheng, filed Tuesday a $5.2 million lawsuit with the Supreme People's Court of the People's Republic of China (under Chief Grand Justice Wang Shengjunin), in Beijing, on behalf of the families of 213 children's families. The class-action product liability case against 22 dairy companies, include the largest case seeking $73,000 compensation for a dead child.According to a statement to the Shanghai Stock Exchange Market Friday, China's Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group Company, which has a domestic market share of milk powder at 8 percent, reported a net loss in 2008 because of the milk scandal. A Morgan Stanley report states the expected company's 2008 loss at 2.3 billion yuan. The scandal also affected Yili's domestic rivals China Mengniu Dairy Company Limited and the Bright Group. Mengniu suffered an expected net loss of 900 million yuan despite earnings in the first half of 2008, while the Bright Group posted a third quarter loss at 271 million yuan last year.New Zealand dairy giant Fonterra, said Saturday it accepted the Chinese court's guilty verdicts but alleged it had no knowledge of the criminal actions taken by those involved. "We accept the court's findings but Fonterra supports the New Zealand Government's position on the death penalty. We have been shocked and disturbed by the information that has come to hand as a result of the judicial process," said Fonterra Chief Executive Andrew Ferrier. "Fonterra deeply regrets the harm and pain this tragedy has caused so many Chinese families," he added. "We certainly would never have approved of these actions. I am appalled that the four individuals deliberately released product containing melamine. These actions were never reported to the Sanlu Board and fundamentally go against the ethics and values of Fonterra," Ferrier noted.Fonterra, which controls more than 95 percent of New Zealand's milk supply, is the nation' biggest multinational business, its second-biggest foreign currency earner and accounts for more than 24 percent of the nation's exports. Fonterra was legally responsible for informing Chinese health authorities of the tainted milk scandal in August, and by December it had written off its $200 million investment in Sanlu Group.Amnesty International also strongly voiced its opposition to the imposition of capital punishment by the Chinese local court and raised concerns about New Zealand's implication in the milk scandal. "The death penalty will not put right the immense suffering caused by these men. The death penalty is the ultimate, cruel and inhumane punishment and New Zealand must take a stand to prevent further abuses of human rights." AI New Zealand chief executive Patrick Holmes said on Saturday."The New Zealand government does not condone the death sentence but we respect their right to take a very serious attitude to what was extremely serious offending," said John Phillip Key, the 38th and current Prime Minister of New Zealand and leader of the National Party. He criticized Fonterra's response Monday, saying, "Fonterra did not have control of the vertical production chain, in other words they were making the milk powder not the supply of the milk, so it was a difficult position and they did not know until quite late in the piece. Nevertheless they probably could front more for this sort of thing."Keith Locke, current New Zealand MP, and the opposition Green Party foreign affairs spokesman, who was first elected to parliament in 1999 called on the government and Fonterra to respond strongly against the Chinese verdict. "They show the harshness of the regime towards anyone who embarrasses it, whether they are real criminals, whistleblowers or dissenters," he said. "Many Chinese knew the milk was being contaminated but said nothing for fear of repercussions from those in authority. Fonterra could not get any action from local officials when it first discovered the contamination. There was only movement, some time later, when the matter became public," he noted.Green Party explained "it is time Fonterra drops its overly cautious act." The party, however, stressed the death penalty is not a answer to the problems which created the Chinese milk scandal. "The Green Party is totally opposed to the death penalty. We would like to see the government and, indeed, Fonterra, speaking out and urging the Chinese government to stop the death penalty," said Green Party MP Sue Kedgley.Nearly 30 people are now thought to have died after a 4-storey building collapsed in the Nigerian city of  Lagos. More bodies, some alive, and others dead, are still being recovered from the wreckage in the Ebute Metta area of Lagos after the apartment block suddenly gave in on Tuesday evening, local time. The building also housed restaurants and 18 shops on the ground floor and rescuers are unsure of how many people remain trapped below the ground. The Nigerian  Red Cross said it believed around 75 people may have been inside, but survivors are claiming the death toll is considerably higher. So far, 50 survivors have been hauled from the wreckage, and still, three days after the collapse, voices are being heard from below the rubble."People have survived in this kind of situation for up to five days,” Timothy Oladele, the Chairman of the Nigerian Red Cross told  Reuters, “We are just in the third day in our own case and by God's grace we will find some alive."The building, in Nigeria’s largest city, is thought to have been just three years old, and officials are blaming poor construction for the collapse. Local media are reporting that city planners only gave permission for a two storey building on the site, not four. The owner of the construction company is believed to have fled; Lagos Governor Bola Tinubu pledged to punish the rogue developer. ”We know their other buildings and definitely, they will not go unpunished," he told local press today.The sprawling industrial city of Lagos has a history of poor construction and maintenance. In March 2006, one of the city’s tallest buildings, damaged after a fire, collapsed during a thunderstorm.Ten years of messages and interviews with al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden have been leaked. Translated by the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the documents were posted on a blog Friday.Posted to Secrecy News blog on September 12, and copied to similar sites including Wikileaks.org, the ten years of messages span from 1994-2004. The packet, issued in 2004, is nearly 300 pages, and labeled "official use only". It was translated by the Foreign Broadcast Information Service (FBIS), a division of the CIA, and includes interviews with bin Laden from various news agencies and also includes messages he sent directly to the United States.One message includes bin Laden's denial of having anything to do with the September 11, 2001 attacks in New York City, Washington, D.C. and Pennsylvania."Following the latest explosions in the United States, some Americans are pointing the finger at me, but I deny that because I have not done it. The United States has always accused me of these incidents which have been caused by its enemies. Reiterating once again, I say that I have not done it, and the perpetrators have carried this out because of their own interest," said bin Laden on September 16, 2001, just five days after the attacks.Bin Laden also states that he was living in Afghanistan at the time of the attacks and that "I have held talks with His Eminence Amir ol-Momenin [Taleban leader Mola Mohammad Omar Mojahed], who does not allow such acts to be carried out from Afghanistan's territory." Again on September 28, 2001 in an interview with Karachi Ummat, bin Laden denies any involvement with the attacks and further denied that al-Qaeda had anything to do with plotting and carrying out the attacks.However, in May, just four months prior to the September 11 attacks, bin Laden reportedly says that if the Taliban allows him, he can make life for Americans very difficult."If the Taleban allowed, [I] could make life miserable for the United States. The United States [is] imposing unjust sanctions on Muslims. Imposing such sanctions and boasting of power[is] a US hobby. The U.S. will fall to pieces," stated bin Laden which was quoted by ANN on May 17, 2001. Five years before, bin Laden declared a "jihad" on the U.S..In April of 2002, the television station London MBC said it obtained a video reportedly showing bin Laden and an al-Qaeda spokesman praising the 9/11 attacks. It also allegedly showed, for the first time, images of some of the members of al-Qaeda responsible for hijacking the aircraft used in the attacks.Bin Laden also blames the U.S. for the bombings in China in 1997 saying that the U.S. was trying "to sabotage relations between China and the Muslim world through the CIA." He then goes on to say that he would "promise" to bring "action in the understanding between Pakistan, Iran and China."The current whereabouts of bin Laden are not known.More than 50 years after the end of the Korean War, recently released documents provide more detail on the mass murder of around 100,000 South Koreans by their own government in the war's first weeks.According to the Associated Press, South Korean investigators have gained access to newly declassified records that show that the American military did nothing to intervene. The mass executions of between 100,000 and 300,000 leftists and others during these purges in 1950 are said to have been carried out to stop them from joining the attacking North Korean Forces. The Associated Press says that the documents show no evidence that General Douglas MacArthur took action to halt or slow the summary executions, despite having knowledge of them.The Truth and Reconciliation Commission was commissioned by South Korea in 2005 to, amongst other things, uncover the truth of what happened during those first few weeks of the war. Evidence of the executions was suppressed during the authoritarian presidency of Park Chung-hee."The most important thing is that [the Americans] did not stop the executions," says commission member Jung Byung-joon. "They were at the crime scene, and took pictures and wrote reports."According to Workers World Party, Ahn Byung-ook, president of the commission, has identified 215 cases where United States forces were directly involved, out of a total of over 1,400 incidents of mass murder.Allan R. Millet, Professor emeritus of Ohio State University and Korean War scholar, said, "I'm not sure there's enough evidence to pin culpability on these guys," referring to the American advisers that were there at the time.The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which has a mandate to continue work through 2010, still has tens of thousands of declassified documents to read through."Our plan is that, when we complete our investigation of cases involving the U.S. Army, we'll make an overall recommendation, a request to the U.S. government to conduct an overall investigation," said Ahn Byung-ook.Queensland, Australia on Tuesday opened a specialist court dedicated to dealing with domestic violence cases. The Southport Court on the Gold Coast is to undergo a six-month trial, after which domestic violence courts may be opened across the rest of the state. The court's motto is "timeliness, access and resolution"; it aims to see domestic violence cases lodged and heard on the same day.Magistrate Colin Strofield, 57, highlighted the need for domestic violence cases to be heard as soon as possible: "If you are in fear of domestic violence or being subjected to domestic violence why should you need to wait one minute longer than you need to?"Police statistics indicate domestic violence cases in Queensland have risen from 3349 in 2010, to 4683 in 2014; Magistrate Strofield is hopeful the dedicated court will help these figures decline by getting more people to act against domestic violence. According to Strofield, Southport court gets more domestic violence applications than any other court in Queensland.Ted Hollis, a criminal attorney from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is suing the creator of a website which allows women to complain about men they have dated after being named by two women on the self-proclaimed controversial site.The website, DontDateHimGirl.com, allows women to use a search engine to find alleged deceivers. It calls itself "a powerful online resource that lets women out the men who have cheated on or lied to them". As well as featuring a discussion board that enables women to criticise partners, the website also includes the names, details, and photographs of so-called cheats. Men can respond to postings, but they can't get them erased.According to Hollis, two local women claimed the man was, among other things, two-timing. Mr Hollis added that he is blameless, and that the website should check the reliability of the information it contains.Tasha Joseph, the creator of DontDateHimGirl.com, notes that this is the first lawsuit filed against her website. She claims that she cannot be held responsible for the comments of others. This is due to her status as a provider, as opposed to a publisher or a writer, under Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act.A defendant on trial for rape in Atlanta, Georgia reportedly stole a deputy sheriff's handgun and used it to shoot the judge, court reporter, and two deputies Friday morning. Three people were killed and one was wounded.Fulton County Superior Court Judge Rowland W. Barnes has been confirmed dead along with the court reporter and one of the deputies. After the shootings, the suspect reportedly attempted to carjack several cars in a bid to escape. He attempted to carjack a green Honda Accord with license plate 6584-YN, from a newspaper reporter, but eventually fled by other means. The reporter in question, Don O'Briant from the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, was beaten by the suspect but was fortunate to receive only cuts to his face and a broken face from a fall.The car was listed as being used by the suspect in public alerts across the area before it was realised that the car was in fact still in the garage of the courthouse.The suspect has been identified as Brian Nichols, 34, who was facing a retrial for rape and kidnapping after the first trial ended with a hung jury. Police are desperately searching for Nichols, as he is considered armed and dangerous.The suspect reportedly stole the handgun by overpowering a deputy sheriff while he was being taken into the courtroom by the deputy, said Assistant Police Chief Alan Dreher. He then shot and critically wounded the female deputy, went to the courtroom where his trial was due to take place, and held about a dozen people at bay there before killing the judge and court reporter. He later shot and killed another deputy outside.The deputy from whom Nichols stole the handgun is now sedated and in critical condition after surgery and has a bruise in her brain, according to Jeffrey Salomone, an attending trauma surgeon at Grady Memorial Hospital. Although she was shot in the head, the bullet did not penetrate her skull, said Salomone.After a final piece of videotaped testimony from the accuser in the Michael Jackson case, the defense rested on Friday.The interview was taped by the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department on July 6, 2003.  The contents of the tape mostly repeated earlier testimony given by the boy describing Michael Jackson's alleged acts of molestation.  Judge Rodney S. Melville instructed the jurors "only to observe the demeanor, manner and attitude of the witness", and that the boy's "statements are not to be considered for the truth of the matter stated."Closing arguments could begin as early as Wednesday.18-year-old, Loyer D. Braden, who is being accused of shooting two Delaware State University students was arrested today by police.Braden has been charged with a gun charge, assault and reckless endangerment and attempted murder in connection with the shooting of two students on September 21, 2007, in Dover, Delaware, United States.Braden is currently being held on US$60,000 secure bond and was ordered to stay away from the victims and the University if bail is granted.Nathaniel Pugh III and Shalita Middleton, both 17-year-old students at the University, were injured by the attack on Friday. Pugh was shot in the ankle, while Middelton was shot twice in the abdomen.Court documents also say that Braden fired at a third student, James Richmond.Braden responded to questions by the media by saying "I'm sorry." And, when asked what exactly he was sorry for, he replied, "She's in the hospital."On Friday, the Delhi High Court restored a trial over claims of copyright infringement from photocopying of study materials for Delhi University (DU)  course packs.The charges of violation of copyright by DU's Rameshwari Photocopy Service was dismissed by justice Rajiv Sahan Endlaw in September saying there is no copyright infringement. But the bench of justice Pradeep Nandrajog and Yogesh Khanna said the case raises a "triable issue".The bench restored the case, meanwhile still allowing the Rameshwari Photocopy Service to sell course packs containing copyrighted material of the publications of claimants Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, and Taylor and Francis. The shop has been asked to report to the court every six months on what and how many course packs it photocopies and distributes.The owner of the photocopy service shop, Dharam Pal Singh, said there was no reason for preparation of a course pack beyond the curriculum. He said the course pack had only readings the professors require or recommend; only important sections of the published books were photocopied."We declare that the law in India would not warrant an approach to answer the question by looking at whether the course pack has become a textbook, but by considering whether the inclusion of the copyrighted work in the course pack was justified by the purpose of the course pack", the bench said.Dharam Pal said the students needed course packs because some books are limited by "availability, price and circulation". He said they are preserving data of some books last published more than half a century ago, and that some of the books cost more than ₹ 2000.The High Court said it needs "expert evidence" to judge whether it is copyright violation or, as judge Sahani ruled, a fair use.The case of copyright infringement was filled in the court in 2012. In September, Justice Endlaw said that, according to Section 52 of the Copyright Act, this instructional use did not amount to copyright infringement. He said, "Copyright, specially in literary works, is thus not an inevitable, divine, or natural right that confers on authors the absolute ownership of their creations." Endlaw added, "Copyright is intended to increase and not to impede the harvest of knowledge. It is intended to motivate the creative activity of authors and inventors in order to benefit the public."At least five bombs exploded in crowded markets and streets in the heart of India's capital New Delhi on Saturday killing 30 while injuring more than 100 people. The blasts at Ghaffar market in Karol Bagh, at Connaught Place and Greater Kailash took place in a quick succession.In an e-mail sent to a local television news channel, a group claiming to be the Indian Mujahideen, appeared to take responsibility for the explosions."In the name of Allah, the Indian Mujahideen has struck back again. Do whatever you want. Stop us if you can," the e-mail said. The station says it received the e-mail before the explosions occurred.Indian Mujahideen, a militant Islamist group, have claimed the responsibility of several attacks against civilian targets in India, claimed responsibility for the 2008 Delhi bombings through an e-mail sent to Indian media, which were all triggered within a 45-minute period. More than 400 people have died since October 2005 in bomb attacks on Indian cities such as Ahmedabad and Bangalore.The first explosion rocked Gaffar market area of Karol Bagh in central Delhi at 18:15 (IST) in which at least 20 people were injured. The explosive was kept near a Maruti car, and resulted in a cylinder blast in an auto rickshaw, which was subsequently thrown up several feet into the air.Immediately after, two explosions took place in Rajeev Chowk in which at least 10 people were injured. Police and witnesses said that went off in dustbins in and around Rajeev Chowk, a shopping and dining area popular with tourists and locals in the centre of the city. The first of these blasts occurred on Barakhamba Road, near Nirmal Tower and Gopal Das Bhavan. The second bomb exploded in the newly constructed Central Park in the centre of the Rajeev Chowk roundabout, built above one of the main stations of the Delhi Metro. An eyewitness reportedly saw two men place the bomb in a dustbin at Central Park.Two explosions rocked M-Block market in Greater Kailash-I at about 18:40 (IST), the first near the popular Prince Paan Corner, and the other near a Levi's store. The latter damaged 10 shops. Relief activities have been started while security has been put on high alert across the country following the deadly blasts in the Indian capital.Dell Inc., a global leader in computer hardware manufacturing and sales, announced yesterday that it will delay filing of its annual performance report, the Form 10-K, required for compliance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Nasdaq listing rules.In a press release, Dell explained that an audit committee of the company's board of directors is carrying out an investigation into accounting and financial reporting issues. The company stated that it would delay filing of the 10-K since the investigation had not been completed.The internal investigation has found evidence of accounting errors, misconduct, and deficiencies in areas of financial control.The chairman of Dell's audit committee, Thomas Luce III, indicated that the delay in filing would extend past the April 3, 2007 deadline as well as an April 18, 2007 extension date. "As we move toward the conclusion of our investigation, we are committing the time and resources required to ensure a thorough and comprehensive review and resolution of all identified issues and the implementation of appropriate remedial measures,” said Luce.The investigation is to determine whether the restatement of any financial disclosures are warranted, based on the accounting errors identified. The probe will also assess whether there are deficiencies in Dell’s internal control over financial reporting.Two Democrat aides working on the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC), Katie Barge, the committee's research director, and her deputy, Lauren Weiner are alleged to have fraudulently used Social Security numbers from court records, to illegally obtain Republican Lt. Governor Michael Steele's confidential credit report.  The aides worked for the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee (DSCC), run by Democrat Senator Charles Schumer from New York. The two apparently engaged in "opposition research" for the DSCC, investigating records of Lt. Gov. Steele's previous personal debt and other financial troubles,  a month after Steele formed a committee investigating a run for the Senate seat of Senator Paul Sarbanes. The pair admitted the act in July, were suspended August 31, and resigned earlier this month.  The DSCC fired the aides earlier this month  and also reported the incident to the U.S. Attorney's office which, along with the FBI, is investigating. Lt. Governor Steele wants the aides prosecuted.Under federal law, it is illegal to willfully obtain a credit report under false pretenses, and imposes a maximum 2-year prison sentence under the Fair Credit Reporting Act.  Senator Schumer, who runs the DSCC, and is a longtime advocate against identity theft, denies any knowledge of the scheme, and has not offered any apology for the theft of Lt. Governor Steele's personal data, nor given any indication of what his staffers were after or why they did it.The National Republican Senatorial Committee (NRSC), the counterpart to the DSCC, had its attorneys send a letter to the Democratic committee requesting information on which candidates' credit information had been accessed by Democrat staffers.  The letter, from William J. McGinley and Cleta Mitchel, asked for information on "how the credit report(s) were accessed, which credit report(s) were accessed, whether any other forms of private financial data were accessed and [whether staffers accessed] any other relevant information related to this serious situation."Marc E. Elias, an attorney for the Democratic committee has responded to the letter, stating  "This was a single incident involving two staffers who demonstrated poor judgment," and "No other candidates or senators had their credit reports accessed." Mr. Elias also said that the committee "took appropriate action to ensure there was neither use of the credit information nor any additional access to it."Republicans have questioned the characterization of the event by Democrats, that it was "isolated" and that the staffers had a "lapse in judgment."Maryland Governor Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. added that both parties were guilty of unsavory tactics, but that that is "Capitol Hill politics."Lt. Governor Steele is a Catholic, who earned his bachelor's degree from Johns Hopkins in 1981 and his law degree from Georgetown University Law Center in 1991.  The Lt. Governor also spent three years preparing for the priesthood.  He is the highest-ranking African-American Republican elected official in the country.Washington, D.C. — House Democrats called for an investigation into possible voting fraud and irregularities during the 2004 U.S. presidential election, according to a Dec. 23 letter from House Representative David Wu (D-OR).  Thousands of Ohio citizens have reported experiencing problems casting their votes due to long lines at polling places, malfunctioning voting machines, inexplicable numbers of votes cast, and disenfranchisement in urban areas."The integrity of our democracy is at stake. We need to give the American people confidence that each and every vote will be properly counted and that the democratic electoral process is respected," Wu said.  "I also understand concerns about the conflict of interest of having an official in charge of running elections in a key state also heading a presidential campaign. I agree that Ohio Secretary of State Blackwell's dual role calls into question any election decision he made that favored Republicans."Other Congressmen including John Conyers (D-MI), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Robert Wexler (D-FL) voiced similar concerns, and requested an investigation by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), citing specific cases in Ohio, Florida, North Carolina, and California.  In December, Conyers, the Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on the Judiciary, issued a series of letters about voting irregularities to the media, campaign officials, and manufacturers of voting equipment.  These letters seek to collect and preserve information regarding the conduct of the election.The U.S. Government Accountability Office previously reported on voting irregularities in eariler presidential elections.  A September 14, 2004 GAO report on the 2000 presidential elections detailed changes the DOJ implemented to try to ensure voter access to polls, and the importance of monitoring election-day activities.  The report warned that allegations in the 2000 election lacked sufficient specifics to enable the DOJ to perform and adequate investigation and recommended that more precise information be collected regarding voting for the 2004 presidential election.Demolition work is set to resume at the former Deutsche Bank Building in New York after work was halted last August over a fire that killed two firefighters. The city's Department of Buildings lifted an order to cease work imposed at the time as the buiding's owners have installed fire control systems at the condemned 26 storey office block.The building was seriously damaged in the September 11, 2001 attacks as the south tower of the World Trade Center collapsed, filling the building with debris, much of it toxic. In subsequent years fragmental remains of hundreds of victims from the disaster were removed from the building and regulators had lengthy debates over how the tower should be demolished.After the fire, work immediately halted and a grand jury criminal investigation followed. The fire is thought to have been triggered by a cigarette discarded by a worker on the site, which will ultimately home one of five new towers planned for the area devastated by the attacks. Of major importance were polyethylene and plywood decontamination barriers which both fueled the blaze and hindered the movement of firefighters. It is thought they may have blocked escape for the two who were killed by the fire.The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, who owns the property, says 300 asbestos removal workers are set to begin shifts of six days per week are set to clear toxic material remaining on 19 floors of the tower. This means the work force has increased by one hundred. Decontamination chambers will now be present across all floors instead of merely the ground floor.Amongst the new safety measures are fire-proof sheetrock decontaminaton chambers, improved safety within the actual chambers and two fire-rated interior stairways. The modifications were made by LVI Environmental Services with work commencing in February this year.The tower at 130 Liberty Street was originally intended to be gone by 2005, but the deadline was expanded to 2008. The fire means the work has been delayed a year with a revised estimated time of completion being 2009.On March 4, 2008 a demonstration against censorship is planned to be held at the Finnish Parliament, part of the continuing controversy over the Finnish Internet child porn filter. The organizers of the demonstration expect at least two-hundred participants, with representatives of the digital rights organization Electronic Frontier Finland (Effi) and several political parties will also present. The controversy arose after the Finnish National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) blacklisted censorship critic Matti Nikki's site. Matti Nikki himself is now under criminal investigation for aiding in the distribution of child pornography, as he published a large portion of the filtering blacklist on his still-censored website. MP Jyrki Kasvi has made an official inquiry in the Finnish Parliament on the matter, and Effi has filed an official complaint to the parliamentary ombudsman. The Finnish Minister of Communication, Suvi Lindén, and the NBI have been severely criticized over the filtering system, which has been under heavy scrutiny by the media. After stating that she will not tolerate discussion criticizing the filtering system, as the situation is not a matter of freedom of speech, a petition was signed by over 12,000 people demanding her resignation. This was accompanied by a Thai civil rights group questioning the blocking as child porn of a memorial site dedicated to a member of the Thai royal family. Eventually the NBI removed the memorial site from the blacklist, explaining that the DNS based system blocks only whole sites, and that there was child pornography site under the same domain; this raised questions about the efficiency of the filtering system.Lindén later admitted that she did not know the details of the filtering system, as it had been established by her predecessors, before the change of government in early 2007. She has nevertheless defended the system, citing the protection of children, but admitted that there are problems with the Finnish system, and in other countries with similar systems. The NBI have published a statement explaining their actions, at the request of Lindén. In it the NBI stated that there are filtered sites that do not contain any child pornography, but claimed that it was not their fault, rather a side effect of the system. They also noted that they are planning to address this issue by switching from a DNS based filter to a URL based system. According to a prominent Finnish expert of filtering technology, the planned URL filtering would cost least two million euros. This estimate comes at the same time that the government cut back funds for work against child abuse, causing further uproar.The NBI's official position is that they block pornographic sites where the actors look too young, and sites which link to these sites. The argument for the filtering is that there is a large amount of child pornography on the Internet, most of it based on servers in countries where the authorities are indifferent to the issue.The general opinion after analysis by multiple people is that the list of at least 1,700 sites contains a handful of actual child pornographic sites, most of which are not located in Western countries. However, some sites in the list are located in countries like the United States, the Netherlands, United Kingdom and Germany, and very few of those contain even questionable or borderline material. Dutch journalist Karin Spaink reviewed 40 sites on the list which were physically located in the Netherlands. She concluded that some of the sites have illegal child pornography, and that four of those are also blocked in the Netherlands by their equivalent filtering system. She estimated that about half of the 40 did not contain any illegal material. Effi's response to the NBI's statement was that the issue with censorship is not technical but that it has no place in an open, democratic society.Unconfirmed reports say that at least one person has been shot and killed, and several others were seriously wounded, during a rally against the re-election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in Azadi Square, Tehran, Iran. Reports say that pro-government militia opened fire on protesters after they attempted to storm a Revolutionary Guard compound.The defeated candidate, Mir Hossein Mousavi, appeared at the rally and addressed the crowd earlier in the day, in contravention of a ban. In the past few days there have been reports of violence and rioting, with many people arrested.Large clashes erupted in Istanbul, Turkey on Tuesday between protesters and security forces, near the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. The protests came as the head of the IMF warned policymakers from 186 countries of social upheaval as the world economic crisis continues.Demonstrators — chanting against the World Bank and IMF — marched to Taksim Square, in the heart of Istanbul.  The protests drew several thousand people — mostly leftists, anti-globalisation groups, liberal democrats and trade unionists.  Analysts say that the IMF and World Bank do not have a good reputation among many people in Turkey, because they have been associated with austerity programs and hardship.Monday's announcement by the Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan that his government is close to signing a new agreement with the IMF made some demonstrators angry.  "We are angry, but we know that we are right.  We want just to protect our rights — and for this, we are here," said one man.The demonstration was largely peaceful until protesters attempted to march to where the World Bank and IMF meetings were being held. Police moved in, using water cannons, tear gas and baton charges. The demonstrators responded by setting fires and throwing rocks at the police in the narrow back streets of Istanbul. The center of the city turned into chaos, with both shoppers and protesters running for cover.Armored cars were dispatched to restore order in the city, spraying water and tear gas at the protesters. The police also sent out several helicopters. Shops pulled down their shutters and banks closed. A taxi driver was reported to have had a heart attack from the effects of tear gas.While the clashes were ongoing, the IMF's Managing Director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, warned of the danger of social unrest in emerging economies due to the global economic downturn."Nineteen million people are about to be put into extreme poverty because of the crisis. What we are talking about is not only higher unemployment or lower purchasing power in the lower income countries; it is about life and death. We could see in those countries, social unrest, political instability, or even war," he said. However, Strauss-Kahn said the crisis could be worse and said international cooperation has prevented a more serious global recession. He said leaders should now try and take the opportunity to shape what he called "the post crisis world".Demonstrators and police clashed on Wednesday in Algiers, Algeria, after the residents of a slum district in the city took to the streets to demonstrate against housing and job shortages.The protest, led by residents of the Diar Echams area of the Algerian capital, conflicted with security forces after starting a protest late on Wednesday. Police officials said at least eleven officers were injured in the violence, but they have not released a civilian casualty figure.400 or so policemen, equipped with riot gear and an armoured vehicle, tried to break up the protests. Demonstrators hurled petrol bombs, stones, and other heavy objects at police.On Monday, June 2, the Danish embassy in Islamabad, Pakistan, was attacked with a car bomb. The bomb went off in the parking lot of the embassy at around 12:10 pm (UTC+5), killing at least six and wounding at least 30 others. One Danish citizen was killed."I think we can say with a reasonable degree of confidence that it was a suicide attack," said Tariq Pervez, the director-general of the Pakistani Federal Investigation Agency (FIA).The bomb forced the closure of the Danish embassy, as well as those of Norway and the Netherlands, which were nearby.While no group has claimed responsibility, the Danish national security intelligence agency PET has concluded that al-Qaeda was behind the attack. "Extremists can be inspired by the attack in Pakistan," said PET's director, Jakob Scharf in a statement."We are just trying to find any clue, any evidence," Pakistani investigator Muhammad Mustafa said to the Associated Press. "You know yesterday it was panic here. Usually we miss important things in panic.""Samples have been sent to the laboratory to determine what type of explosive was used," said Mohammad Ashraf Shah, who is in charge of the investigation. Investigators have found that the car with the bomb was a Toyota Corolla, which bore diplomatic license plates."One can of course only condemn it, it's terrible that terrorists commit such acts," said Per Stig Møller, the Foreign Minister of Denmark, on TV 2 television."It was to be expected that they would do something," said Ikram Sehgal to Reuters, referring to Ayman al-Zawahiri's recent video encouraging attacks against Denmark over the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy."I urge and incite every Muslim who can harm Denmark to do so in support of the prophet, God's peace and prayers be upon him, and in defense of his honorable stature," Ayman al-Zawahri said in a video which became public on April 21."This attack was not linked to any event in the country or the region, rather it was part of widespread outrage throughout the Islamic world against publishing blasphemous caricatures," a local official told Daily Times, adding that it would not affect Pakistani negotiations with "local" Taliban, which is considered separate from the Taliban in Afghanistan.On Friday, the High Court of Eastern Denmark (Østre Landsret) convicted three of four defendants of planning a terrorist attack against Denmark. The three were found guilty of acquiring triacetone triperoxide (TATP) in order to make bombs. TATP is believed to have been the explosive used in the London bombings of July 7, 2005.Two of the men are Danish citizens. Mohammad Zaher, age 34, is a Dane of Palestinian origin. Abdallah Andersen, age 32, is a Dane who converted to Islam. Ahmed Khaldhahi, age 22, is an Iraqi of Kurdish ethnicity. The fourth defendant, also a Danish citizen, Riad Anwar Daabas, age 19, was acquitted. Zaher and Khaldhahi were each sentenced to eleven years in prison, while Andersen received a four year sentence. All had faced life in prison, but the prosecutor asked for no more than 14 years.The evidence against the men included a bomb-making manual and about two ounces of TATP found at Zaher's home, as well as, wire-tapped conversations which were made possible by an uncover agent known only as Lars.Lars, age 33, is a Dane that converted to Islam. He contacted Politiets Efterretningstjeneste (PET), the national security intelligence agency of Denmark, after he encountered radical Muslims at the mosque he attended. The PET did acknowledge that Lars was a paid informant, with payments totalling some DKK84,000 (approximately US$16,700).The defense, which denied the charges, argued that the recordings were made of them while they were joking about possible attacks. The defense also said that Lars was the one that bought and paid for the chemicals needed to make TATP. They also said that Lars encouraged them to do and say things they would otherwise not have done or said.However, Judge Folmer Theilmann found that the anonymous witness Lars was both "credible" and a "good citizen" for his cooperation with the PET."There is every indication that the group had concrete and serious discussions about three possible targets in Copenhagen: the city hall square, the parliament and political meeting (areas)," said prosecutor Charlotte Alsing Juul.Magnus Ranstorp, an expert on terrorism, said to Berlingske Tidende: "The length of the sentences sends a clear signal, that if one sets out on this course of action, one risks severe punishments. It can contribute to discourage young muslims, who are entering a radical islamic milieu or are on the verge. Hopefully, they will think twice and change course."Ranstorp went on to say that the verdict was a validation of the investigative methods of the PET and its use of civilian informants. However, he thought that the criticism of Lars during this case, would result in the PET tightening their procedures.The defendants were arrested on September 5, 2006, in a sting operation that involved 400 police officers. Nine people were arrested in the Vollsmose neighborhood of Odense, on the island of Funen (Fyn). Two were released the day after the arrest. Four others, including Daabas, were released later. Only those convicted remained jailed throughout.The U.S. Defense Department has denied federal funding to two law schools because they do not allow military recruiters on campus. Now the U.S. House of Representatives is putting forward a new law that would require the Secretary of Defense to compile a list of colleges and universities that don't allow the military to recruit on campus.William Mitchell College of Law and Vermont Law School (not affiliated with the University of Vermont) have already been barred from federal funding for violating the Solomon amendment, a 10-year old law that "the armed forces cannot be denied access to students".  Legislators recently passed a measure that would require the Secretary of Defense to provide a list of schools whose cooperation it is unsatisfied with.Representative Cliff Sterns (R-FL) is pushing through the House an amendment that would toughen the Solomon amendment, a law which states "Any college that prohibits the U.S. military from establishing or operating an ROTC unit on campus or denies military recruiters access to students is ineligible for federal funding."  Sterns' amendment is part of the Defense Department Authorization Act.Sterns claims that Yale University is discriminating against military recruiters. Yale denies this. Rich Jacobs, a representative of Yale, in a prepared statement, said "Yale has sought to comply fully with the Solomon amendment as it applies to ROTC and Yale university."  Yale gives ROTC a room on campus, but does not help arrange interviews.  According to Yale's website, "The defense department's 'Don't ask, don't tell' policy, which prevents openly [public] gays, lesbians, and bisexuals from serving in the military, violates the school's non-discrimination policy." The Defense Department has declined to sign the school's non-discriminatory policy.  In the fall the U.S. Supreme Court is lined up to hear a case involving several colleges and regarding military recruitment at universities.Mauritania's President Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi has been freed "without conditions" from house arrest by the military junta on Sunday.Sidi Mohamed Ould Cheikh Abdallahi (Arabic: سيدي محمد ولد الشيخ عبد الله) is a Mauritanian politician who served in the government during the 1970s, and after a long period of absence from politics he won the March 2007 presidential election, taking office on 19 April 2007. He was deposed in a military coup d'etat on August 6, 2008. He was removed from Lemden to his soldiers guarded private residence in Nouakchott (Arabic: نواكشوط or انواكشوط), the Capital and by far the largest city of Mauritania. It is one of the largest cities in the Sahara. The city is the administrative and economic centre of Mauritania.Sidi's release is a result of protracted and intense international pressure on the ruling military High Council of State headed by General Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz, to restore constitutional rule to the nation. France and the US had canceled their aid, while the African Union has also suspended the country due to the 6 August coup d'état. But the leaders still refused to reinstate Sidi, amid the demands of the EU, the United States and other major donors.Reuters has reported that "the EU says it will avoid sanctions that would hurt Mauritania's 3 million people, and continues to pay Nouakchott over $100 million a year for fishing rights, underpinning the state budget." Further, the United States on Friday announced it would cut trade benefits for Mauritania as of January 1. It is expected that Sidi will be allowed to participate in a "national consultation meeting" on December 27. But in an interview by the French newspaper Le Monde, he said that "participating in the December 27 talks would be to legitimise the coup d'état".Anchorage, Alaska — A group calling itself "Alaska Women Reject Palin" held an anti-Sarah Palin rally Saturday, despite receiving threatening phone calls last week. Palin is the vice presidential candidate, running with John McCain, on the Republican ticket in the American presidential election to be held on Nov. 4.On Wednesday, the group sent a press release to the local media about the rally. The press release, a copy of which was obtained by Wikinews, says that Alaska Women Reject Palin is a group "who challenge the claim that Palin's value systems and ideals reflect all women and middle-class American families, and who urge voters to scrutinize Palin's politics, and decide for themselves if hers is the example by which they and their families want to live.""The whole thing grew out of frustration," Charla Sterne, one of Alaska Women Reject Palin's group members and an organizer of the rally, told The Washington Post. "Last week this was just ten women sitting around talking about this perception that all of Alaska supports Sarah Palin. We apparently hit a nerve and started a movement."File:Anti-Sarah Palin Rally Sept 13 2008 64.jpgEddie Burke, a KBYR talk radio host, broadcast the names and contact information of two of the group's members on the air."They're a bunch of socialist maggots, that's what I'm going to call them — socialist maggots, that's what they are, a bunch of socialist baby-killing maggots," Burke said on his radio show, according to local television news station KTUU 2.Burke says he's conservative and a "Palinista," but on Thursday he admitted to KTUU news that he "... was probably a little over the top."According to KTUU, Burke encouraged his listeners to call the two organizers listed in the press release.Burke called the document public, but one organizer objected to the release of information on ethical grounds."I was honestly shocked because I couldn't believe that a member of the media would take information that I think is pretty standard in a press release and use it for what seems like pretty unethical purposes, for one thing," an organizer told KTUU.The organizer's name was not released by KTUU, and her image was distorted on television broadcasts.KTUU broadcast part of one message sent to an organizer, "You liberals need to get a life. What is wrong with you? You think you speak for everybody? You don't speak for nobody but your individual, stupid selves."Alaska Public Radio published portions of three messages, including the one broadcast by KTUU. "[a]nd don't go around and tell people that you are standing up for all the women of Alaska," one woman said, "that's not right. ... ""I just heard on Eddie Burke about you," another woman said, "you people are disgusting, how can you call yourself a woman."Both organizers said their voice mail systems were "full of messages.""We were bombarded with all kinds of hateful, abusive, intimidating phone calls," organizer Sterne told the Anchorage Daily News. It not clear if Sterne is the same woman interviewed by KTUU, but Alaska Public Radio said that Sterne considered not attending the rally, but decided to go through with it.According to KTUU, the two organizers contacted police, and were told that they could file an alleged-harassment report, but as of Thursday, had not done so. KTUU cites Anchorage Police Department Lt. Paul Honeman as saying that Burke's on-air encouragement instigated the harassment. As of Thursday, Burke has not been punished in any way.Prosecutor Christian Du Four has released more details on the fatal stabbing in a day care center in East Flanders, Belgium, yesterday, in which two children (six and nine months old) and one employee were killed. Ten children and two adults were injured.The alleged perpetrator, a 20-year-old man from nearby Sint-Niklaas, was arrested in the neighbouring municipality of Lebbeke shortly after the crime. Belgian news website nieuwsblad.be have named the arrested man as Kim De Gelder.Mohamed Tamalt, a journalist imprisoned in Algeria for insulting President Abdelaziz Bouteflika, died in hospital while serving his sentence. His lawyer on Sunday announced his death.Tamalt, 42, lived in England, basing himself in London, and had UK-Algerian dual citizenship. He was arrested on June 27 near his parents' Algiers home after writing a poem on Facebook. Human Rights Watch said he began a hunger strike immediately. On June 11 he was fined 200,000 dinars (£1,400; US$1,800) and imprisoned for two years. This was upheld on appeal.Tamalt fell into a coma which his lawyer, Amine Sidhoum, said lasted three months. He was undergoing treatment in Bab el-Oued hospital. Human Rights Watch had asked Algeria to release him when reportedly in critical condition in August.Reporters Without Borders called Tamalt's death a shocking blow to Algerian free speech. "Why was there such a conviction just for words on Facebook which did no harm to anyone?" asked the organisation's North African head, Yasmine Kacha. Amnesty International have sought an "independent and transparent investigation into the circumstances" of Tamalt's death.Tamalt was convicted of insulting President Bouteflika and defaming a public organisation, both breaches of the national Penal Code. Sidhoum told al-Jazeera the occasion marked "the first time since Algeria gained its independence from France that a journalist died in jail because of what he wrote on the Internet." He also said he was "really sad at the lack of support from his fellow Algerian journalists, who left him and abandoned him."Sidhoum said Tamalt's funeral was scheduled for Monday. Afterwards, "we, his family and lawyers, will figure out in the following days what we can do to find out exactly what happened to him in prison." His family have alleged he was mistreated in prison and denied visits. Justice Minister Tayeb Louh in October promised investigations would uncover any wrongdoing by authorities.The prison service said Tamalt was found to be suffering pneumonia, beginning treatment on December 4. It said this killed him. Amnesty spokesperson Brahim Mahdid in remarks to al-Jazeera said "we can't say for sure what the cause of his death was[...] Nor are we sure if Tamalt received the proper treatment during his hunger strike." Mahdid said local media were "facing increasing pressure" and "a hostile environment."The family of a Detroit, Michigan woman plans to file a wrongful-death lawsuit against the city after her six-year-old son's calls to emergency operators were allegedly dismissed as a prank.  The family released the tapes of the emergency calls to the media on Friday.Sherrill Turner, 46, died on February 20 of complications from an enlarged heart.  Her son Robert made two calls to 911 to report the emergency."My mom is passed out," said Robert Turner when he called 911 the first time."Where's Mister Turner at?" asked the operator. Robert replied that his mother was unable to speak. "Okay, well, I'm going to send the police over to your house to find out what's going on," added the operator, before hanging up on the boy.  However, the police never came, and an ambulance was never dispatched to the home.The boy called 911 three hours later, and reports say the operator who answered the call may have been the same operator that answered the first call. The operator asked to speak to the mother before saying "before I send the police over there." Then she said to the boy, "You shouldn't be playing on the phone. Now put her on the phone before I send the police over there to knock on the door, and you're going to be in trouble.""It was taking too long," said Robert. Delaina Patterson, the boy's older sister, who lives in Novi, Michigan, said that after 9:00 p.m. help did come, but only the police and no EMS or medical personnel.The operator, whose name has not been released, remains on the job pending an investigation by city officials.This morning local time an explosion, now officially considered a terrorist incident, was reported on a London underground train which was stopped at Parsons Green in south-west London.The explosion has been officially confirmed caused by an improvised device placed in a white bucket inside a Lidl shopping bag. Reports also indicate a timer attached to the explosive. At least 29 people were injured, NHS England said this afternoon.Officers and ambulance staff were on the scene this morning, with reports of burn and crush injuries. Detectives and MI5 were investigating.BBC News presenter Sophie Raworth described seeing a woman on a stretcher with face and leg burns.In a statement after the incident, British Prime Minister Theresa May said, "My thoughts are with those injured at Parsons Green and emergency services who are responding bravely to this terrorist incident."A rooftop protest at a Devon (UK) jail has ended peacefully after almost 28 hours.The protest, involving 10 inmates, at HMP Channings Wood started after prisoners complained their meals were being prepared by sex offenders. The category C training prison in Newton Abbot, Devon presently holds 663 inmates, with units dedicated to sex offenders and drug offenders.A Home Office spokesman said: "The rooftop protest at HMP Channings Wood has ended peacefully with no injuries to prisoners or prison staff." The Prison Service has so far refused to confirm the extent of the damage done during the protest, but it is believed to run into thousands of pounds with glass being smashed and paving slabs being torn up.Earlier on Monday afternoon three prisoners had already given up their protest, leaving ten remaining on the roof. They eventually came down at around 6:30 p.m. BST after speaking with trained negotiators.The Prison Service has launched an internal enquiry into the protest.On Thursday, Dhaka high court sentenced former Bangladeshi Prime Minister Khaleda Zia to a five year prison term for corruption. Her son Tarique Rahman and four others involved in the case were each sentenced to ten years.Zia was prosecuted for embezzling ৳21 million (about US$250 thousand) from foreign donations to an orphanage while she was prime minister. 72-year-old Zia, who became the first female to head the Bangladeshi government in 1991, was sent to jail minutes after the ruling. Her son Tarique Rahman, who lives in England, was not present for the hearing.Judge Mohammad Akhteruzzaman said Zia "was given a shorter term considering her health and social status". According to the Law Minister Anisul Huq, Zia can apply for bail and also go to the Supreme Court. Zia's lawyer Khandker Mahbub Hossain said, "We didn't get justice. We'll go to the higher court". Per Bangladeshi law, if a person is jailed for over two years, they are ineligible to stand in election for a period of five years. Parliamentary polls of Bangladesh are scheduled to be conducted in December.Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) leader Ruhul Kabir Rizvi said the ruling was "an attempt to eliminate the opponent" for the upcoming polls. Anisul Huq said the verdict "proves that Bangladesh has the rule of law and that no one is above the law". Huq also noted Zia would not be eligible to run for the December polls if she loses the case in the Supreme Court after the appeal.BNP secretary general Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir said, "this verdict will deepen the country's existing political crisis and will damage people's faith in judiciary". Thousands of supporters of Zia gathered and protested against the ruling. According to news reports, protesters set fire to motorbikes, and police used teargas to disperse some crowds.The United States Department of Homeland Security has announced the awarding of a $3 million grant to Rutgers University to lead a consortium researching advanced information analysis and computational technologies to protect the United States.Under the agreement, Rutgers will also coordinate a team of four university-based centers at the University of Southern California, the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the University of Pittsburgh. Plans call for a total of $10.2 million in funding over three years for Rutgers and these institutions to advance efforts aimed at identifying common patterns from numerous sources of information.According to Fred Roberts, director of Rutgers' Center for Discrete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science (DIMACS), the efforts will "develop real-time streaming algorithms to find patterns and relationships in communications, such as among writers who may be hiding their identities, and to rate information sources for their reliability and trustworthiness." The computer applications developed by the program will focus on analyzing data from public sources, including news stories, open-source web logs, and other accessible information, to quickly identify emerging indicators of possible terrorist activity.The 8th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals has ruled that the Department of Homeland Security was wrong in using the online encyclopedia Wikipedia as a reference when deciding whether to allow asylum seekers to stay in the United States.The department used the Wikipedia article named laissez-passer to decide whether the document was a valid form of identification. This is despite the fact that the article had a large orange notice at the top of the article saying that "this article does not cite any references or sources."The Board of Immigration Appeals has stated that it doesn't "encourage the use of resources such as Wikipedia.com [sic] in reaching pivotal decisions in immigration proceedings." They said that they allowed the decision to stand due to the fact that the information seemed accurate.The appeals court noted when making the decision that Wikipedia admits that articles will stay inaccurate and unbalanced for long periods of time. Below is the extract from the court documents that makes this point:Cary Bass, the volunteer coordinator of the Wikimedia Foundation, gave Wikinews the following statement on this issue:Los Angeles County prosecutors have brought three felony charges against Stephen Heller for stealing documents from his employer, the law firm Jones Day.The legal documents discussed the legal ramifications of activist allegations that Diebold Election Systems had used uncertified voting systems in Alameda County elections beginning in 2002. Jones Day represented the controversial electronic voting machine manufacturer at the time. The firm's lawyers concluded that if such uncertified systems were used, then Diebold could be sued by Alameda County for millions of dollars. The memos also discussed whether the California's secretary of state had the authority to investigate Diebold.Mr. Heller has been charged with felony access to computer data, commercial burglary and receiving stolen property.  He has pled not guilty.Blair Berk, Heller's attorney said, "It's a devastating allegation for a whistle-blower.  Certainly, someone who saw those documents could have reasonably believed that thousands of voters were going to be potentially disenfranchised in upcoming elections."Articles dated 14 to 25 December 2004 are included in the compilation below.< 26 December-31 December 2004 • Index • 11-18 January 2005 >Articles dated 1 to 10 January 2005 are included in the compilation below.Experimental Format< 15-22 November 2004 • Index • 29 November-5 December 2004 >This a collection of articles whose datelines read between 22 and 29 November. They have not necessarily gone through a peer-review process, and may not even be done. This is essentially an index right now. Click on an article's title to read it in full.Activists protest against School of the Americas22 November, 2004, United States Antiwar magazines report up to 16,000 protesters demonstrated outside a United States military school this weekend, demanding it be closed in connection with accused human rights violations.Dan Rather resigns as anchor, to stay on as correspondent22 November, 2004, USADan Rather has announced that he will retire on March 9th, 2005 as anchor of CBS Evening News. He will continue to be an investigative reporter for both of the 60 Minutes shows.Indonesian police arrest four suspects wanted over Australian Embassy bombing24 November, 2004, Jakarta, Indonesia.Associated Press and Reuters are both reporting that Indonesian police have arrested four suspects for the bombing of the Australian embassy in Jakarta on September 9th, which killed 10 people.Ukrainian opposition leader calls for police and army to join revolution24 November, 2004, UkraineAmid protests of up to 200,000 over Ukraine's disputed presidential election, officially declared loser Viktor Yushchenko has called on the army and police to join a revolution against the government. Internal emails expose Boeing-Air Force contract discussions24 November, 2004, United StatesEmails exchanged among United States Air Force officials regarding a USD$23 billion dollar deal with aircraft manufacturer Boeing have been entered into the public record. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) entered them into the Congressional Record during a speech last week against the now-cancelled deal to lease 100 mid-air tanker aircraft from Boeing.Australia in a good position after first day of Adelaide test match26 November, 2004, Adelaide, South AustraliaAt stumps on day one, Australia has opened a commanding lead in the second cricket test against New Zealand.Record computer outage at UK government departmentNovember 27 2004, United Kingdom. A computer outage beginning on Monday afternoon at the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) has caused delays in the processing of new claims. 80% of the DWP's desktop computers were put out of action by a software update. This story is being widely reported but details are scarce. Most of the talk is about the severity of the problem and the pattern of failures associated with IT outsourcing in the government.170 workers trapped in Chinese mine after explosion28 November, 2004, Shaanxi province. Early in the morning on Sunday November 28th, 170 workers were trapped in the Chinese Chenjiashan mine, the BBC reports. According to Chinese state officials, 123 workers managed to escape the facilities. Many of those who escaped the mines are suffering from carbon monoxide poisoning. Since the accident, there has been no contact with the 170 workers trapped inside, although the initial number of 183 people still in the complex was revised downwards.Researchers discover high temperature enables more efficient hydrogen generationSunday, November 28th, 2004Researchers in Salt Lake City Utah, at Ceramtech Incorporated, hand in hand with workers at The Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory stated that they had learned that through superheating thewater to 800 degrees Celsius, far less electricity was required to produce the same volume of hydrogen.USL v. BSDi settlement agreement unsealed28 November, 2004, United StatesThe 1994 settlement agreement between UNIX Systems Laboratories (USL) and BSDi (USL v. BSDi) was unsealed in November 2004 under the California Public Records Act (California Code § 6250-6270). The details of the settlement may have ramifications with respect to the SCO v. IBM case with SCO believing it is the successor in interest to USL.American teenage girl charged with murder of her own mother29 November, 2004, United States.Rachelle Waterman, (aka Rachelle Ann Monica Waterman and "smchyrocky"), a 16-year-old girl from Craig, Alaska, USA, has been charged with the first degree murder of her own mother.World's Largest Ball of Twine Turns 5029 November, 2004, Cawker City, Kansas.People in Kansas like to just go have a look at things from time to time, particularly if it is kitchy and big. Frank Stoeber died in 1974, but not before he left behind a legacy of twine. Frank started a building a ball of sisal twine (a form of hemp) in 1953, which as grown to 40 ft in diameter hence. The ball of twine's domicile is a mini-museam located in the downtown of Cawker City, Kansas, which onlookers can simple look at or add twine to.< 22-29 November 2004 • Index • 6-13 December 2004 >Articles dated 29 November to 5 December 2004 are included in the compilation below. Their status in the current proposed review policy at time of compilation is noted next to each date of articles of some length, with articles only in development being listed at bottom.< 29 November-5 December 2004 • Index • 14-25 December 2004 >Articles dated 6 to 13 December 2004 are included in the compilation below. Their status in the current proposed review policy at time of compilation is noted next to each date of articles of some length, with articles only in development being listed at bottom.On Monday, digital security researchers Mathy Vanhoef and Frank Piessens of Belgium's KU Leuven university publicly disclosed a security vulnerability in the WPA2 Wi-Fi (wireless local-area networking) protocol, which they called KRACK (for Key Reinstallation Attack). Their study claimed KRACK affects every modern device using Wi-Fi; it can be fixed by a software update, researchers said.Vanhoef wrote, "Attackers can use this novel attack technique to read information that was previously assumed to be safely encrypted. This can be abused to steal sensitive information such as credit card numbers, passwords, chat messages, emails, photos and so on." Vanhoef notified vendors about the flaw in July, including UNIX-like operating system OpenBSD. "If your device supports Wi-Fi, it is most likely affected. [...] In general, any data or information that the victim transmits can be decrypted", he wrote.The study papers, which were submitted for review on May 19, were kept in confidence allowing companies to fix the security flaw. The United States-based Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) informed vendors on August 28. The Wi-Fi Alliance said it "could be resolved through a straightforward software update." OpenBSD released their software patch on August 30.Exploring the flaw which affected every device the researchers had tested, National Cyber Security Centre of the UK said "the attacker would have to be physically close to the target". But due to this flaw, an attacker can send malware or ransomware on the websites, Vanhoef claimed. Linux-based operating systems including Android v6.0 and higher are especially affected by this flaw, while Windows and iOS are not as vulnerable as Android by this flaw as they do not fully implement WPA2.Microsoft reportedly has released security patches for Windows 7, 8, 8.1 and 10. Google said Android operating systems would receive the updates in the software update scheduled to be made available on November 6. Apple has implemented the patch in the beta versions of their operating system iOS, macOS, tvOS and watchOS, however it is yet to roll out patches for stable operating systems.WPA2 protocol has been used for more than a decade, and has been compulsory for Wi-Fi since 2006. KRACK would also affect various home appliances which can be controlled over Wi-Fi, within the so-called "Internet of things". Andrew Martin from Oxford University said, "We can be sure a lot of these devices won’t be patched[...] Whether that matters for this attack or only for some future attack is yet to be seen."The study and its findings are scheduled for presentation at the ACM (Association for Computing Machinery) Computer and Communications Security conference on November 1.On Friday, a network of diverse Internet-connected devices targeted the Dyn domain registration service provider. It took down Dyn clients, including several popular websites such as Twitter, Netflix, Spotify, Reddit, New York Times, and Wired.The attack involved targeting Dyn's domain name system servers with a large volume of requests, rendering it incapable of serving replies to legitimate requests — a DDoS (distributed denial of service) attack. Users' browsers and other clients sent requests to Dyn to resolve the respective web sites' domain names to an IP, but did not get a reply within the time required.The first attack started at about 7am local time (UTC-4) and was resolved in two hours. A second attack started at mid-day, and a third attack started at about 4pm local time. Tens of millions of malicious request sources were observed, interfering with legitimate Dyn traffic.The reports noted the malicious devices included internet-connected devices — not only servers and desktops, but also webcams, digital video recorders, routers — referred to as the Internet of Things.On Friday evening Dyn said a security company Flashpoint and a cloud services provider Akamai identified symptoms of malware Mirai participating in the attacks. The malware infects the devices by brute forcing their passwords. This strategy may work as a consequence of users' negligence towards password security of stationary devices, which the users do not directly interact with in their everyday life while leaving them exposed to the Internet.Matthew Prince, the CEO of an Internet infrastructure company Cloudflare said it's a known issue, "There's nothing really new about [this type of DDoS attack]. We've seen them for at least the last three years, they tend to be difficult to stop".Public release of Mirai source code was announced at Hackforums on September 30.Dyn's corporate headquarters are in New Hampshire.Michelle Rhee, the controversial chancellor of Washington, D.C.'s public school system, announced her resignation on Wednesday. Rhee, who has held the position for over three years, will be replaced by Deputy Chancellor Kaya Henderson at the end of this month.Rhee, aged 40, chose to step down after current Washington, D.C. Mayor Adrian Fenty failed to be reelected in a primary election last month. Fenty, who had long backed Rhee's educational policies, lost to D.C. City Council Chairman Vincent C. Gray. In a Wednesday morning press conference, Rhee said that she and Gray decided together that she should resign. "This was not a decision that we made lightly," she said, "but it is one that I believe is absolutely essential to allow Chairman Gray to pursue our shared goal of unifying the city behind the school reform efforts that are making such a large difference in the lives of the children across the city. In short we have agreed together that the best way to keep the reforms going is for this reformer to step aside."Rhee said she "completely enjoyed every minute of" her tenure as chancellor, and that leaving is "the right thing for the school system and the right thing most importantly for the children of D.C." She was charged by Fenty in 2007 to improve the city's failing public school district, but her no-nonsense tactics caused much controversy among other educators and the D.C. community, despite managing to raise test scores and lowering dropout rates.In July, Rhee took drastic measures to reform the city's educational system by firing 241 teachers and putting 737 more on notice to improve in one year or lose their jobs as well. She pushed for performance-based evaluations, following recommendations in U.S. President Barack Obama's "Race to the Top" initiative. Teacher unions and other educators, along with city residents, criticized Rhee's actions. Chester Finn, president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute for education research, says that many people find mass layoffs and school closings troubling, even in the name of reform.Fenty, who made Rhee head of D.C. schools in June 2007, lost his reelection bid in part due to his support of Rhee's methods. Fenty said at the press conference that she "exceeded all of [his] expectations." It wasn't just the results, he said, it was Rhee's "tough decision-making, what residents believe is a breath of fresh air, and a willingness to do what is right even if it has political consequences."Gray, who is now running for mayor unopposed, agreed to a deal in which Henderson would become interim chancellor after Rhee leaves at the end of the month. The current educational leadership team will remain unchanged until the end of the school year to avoid any possible disruption of classes. Even though she is leaving, Rhee said, "All of the reforms can continue as planned." Those reforms include the new evaluation system, changes to special education, and expansion of standardized testing. However, former Assistant Secretary of Education Diane Ravitch says that Rhee's departure shows that her tactics will be unsuccessful in the long run. "Rhee is out because her patron lost the election, and that loss should have taught the leaders of this movement that they are headed in the wrong direction. Public schools cannot be reformed without public support," wrote Ravitch.During the press conference, Gray said that "school reform will move forward under the Gray administration. Our schools must continue to operate under the leadership of a strong, empowered chancellor who will move school reform forward, take it to the next level and work with the community so that all our stakeholders are invested in the process." When asked why Rhee would not be retained as chancellor, Gray said that it was a "mutual decision" for her to step down.Rhee was featured in the recent documentary Waiting for Superman, which highlights issues with the country's school systems. She became "a pivotal leader in the school reform movement," said U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan. Fenty praised Rhee's accomplishments, saying, "All across the country now because of Chancellor Rhee and her team, from the White House to documentaries, people are touting D.C. as a model for how to attack bureaucracy and get results in an urban school system."Although she has not publicly disclosed her next steps, Rhee said that her "goal is to continue to serve the children of this nation." She plans to "take a little time off and figure out what's next," but will be going to California to marry her fiancé, Sacramento Mayor Kevin Johnson. Rhee, born to South Korean immigrant parents, graduated from Cornell University and earned a master’s degree at Harvard University.Thirty fans were arrested and five officers were injured Saturday night in Liverpool following Manchester United's 2-0 win at Everton in an FA Cup match up.Officers in riot gear were called out to the Everton Valley section of the city to separate the rival fans of the teams. It is believed that Ill-feeling marking Wayne Rooney's return to Goodison Park erupted outside the ground into what Merseyside Police called "large-scale disturbances". Officers were hit by rock, bottles, and other projectiles, several needed to be taken to area hospitals for treatment of their injuries.During the match, a missile from the crowd struck United keeper Roy Carroll. Everton have vowed to ban for life the fan who threw the projectile, believed to be a coin, which injured Carroll. Police also reported recovering a mobile phone which was thrown onto the pitch during the game.Dr. Francisco Supe Jr., a forensic analyst from the DNA Analysis Section of the Philippine National Police (PNP) Crime Laboratory, took the stand and disclosed in court for the first time that DNA was present in two pieces of evidence. According to Supe, DNA of complainant "Nicole" was found in samples of "biological fluid" found on the panties she was wearing on the night of Nov. 1, 2005 and in the condom purportedly used by accused Lance Corporal Daniel Smith in committing the alleged rape.The used condom was retrieved at Subic's Alava Pier where a distraught Nicole was found after the alleged rape. "The condom and the underwear had female DNA, and they matched. They are the same DNA profiles ... which means they most likely belong to the same person," the expert witness said during direct examination by State Prosecutor Hazel Valdez.Only Nicole's underwear tested positive for male DNA---a result that Supe attributed to the possible "degradation" of bodily fluids on the condom to "environmental insults, particularly the humid condition, bacterial factors that may have contaminated it ... and the enzyme inside DNA which destroys it when functioning outside a living system."In reply to Valdez’s question, Supe said that while it was possible that the evidence had not been handled properly before the turnover, he said the condom and the panties were not contaminated as they still yielded DNA samples.Upon Valdez's questioning, Supe related how analysts came to match the female DNA found in both specimens with that of the complainant.He said Nicole's DNA, extracted from a blood sample that she had voluntarily provided, was the same as that found in the panties and the condom."I am comparing now, and it appears that they match exactly -- the DNA profiles generated from the blood sample and the samples generated from the condom and the underwear," said Supe, referring to two DNA test results he was holding.Valdez then sought Supe's expertise on the possible indications of the presence of male DNA in a woman’s underwear, and asked him its possible source.Supe replied: "We're dealing here with a [pair of panties] and you would think of areas that come in contact with a panty... The most probable source is either saliva or seminal stains. But if you go by logic, I don't see any reason why anybody would lick a panty."  While the test may lead experts to areas where DNA can be extracted, it cannot specify which part of the body the spots came from, Supe had explained.Supe said the owner of the male DNA could not be identified as yet, as the crime laboratory lacked a sample with which to compare the results.   None of the accused----Smith, Lance Corporals Keith Silkwood and Dominic Duplantis, and Staff Sgt. Chad Carpentier---had submitted his specimen for DNA testing.  The prosecution panel had filed a motion on July 17, asking the court to compel the accused to submit blood samples for comparison with the male DNA found in Nicole's panties.  Defense lawyers told the court that they would file their reply on July 20.In response to the question on how could a female's DNA be in a used condom, Supe replied:  "The most plausible is that the inside of the condom came in contact with [Nicole]... Maybe that part of the condom was rubbed with [Nicole]," he said.  "Most likely it came in contact with the genital area, [but it] was turned inside out most likely, such that the [DNA] specimen was preserved."When asked to demonstrate how a condom could have been reversed, Supe had apparently anticipated the question and brought a condom.  He then demonstrated how a condom could have been turned inside out in the act of removing it.Defense lawyer Jose Justiniano said Supe's testimony did not help prove rape. He said the presence of the male and female DNA in the specimen could at most prove that a man and a woman had sex, not whether or not there was "a presence of force or intimidation,"This case has garnered nationwide attention in Philippines because it involves US military men stationed in Philippines.  As required by the Visiting Forces Agreement, the case has to be resolved within one year.  Cross-examination of Supe is scheduled for Thursday, July 20.Virginia’s outgoing governor and possible 2008 presidential contender Mark Warner ordered on Thursday that DNA testing should be performed on Roger Keith Coleman, a Grundy, Virginia man executed in May 1992 for the rape and murder in 1981 of Wanda Fay McCoy. The death penalty was re-instated in the United States after a Supreme Court ruling in 1976, reversing its brief suspension from 1973. A total of 1,004 prisoners have been executed since then, but none yet have been posthumously exonerated. That could change if the more precise DNA testing methods available today find Coleman innocent.Coleman, 33, maintained his innocence to the end, saying "An innocent man is going to be murdered tonight. When my innocence is proven, I hope America will realize the injustice of the death penalty as all other civilized countries have," as his final words before being strapped into the electric chair. Governor Warner said regarding the Coleman case, "[that] technology has advanced significantly and can be applied in the case of someone who consistently maintained his innocence until execution… My prayers are with the family of Wanda McCoy as we take this extraordinary step." Coleman's resolute insistence on his innocence drew national attention when he was pictured on the cover of TIME magazine, focusing attention on capital punishment.The victim was a 19-year-old housewife and Coleman’s sister-in-law. DNA work done on sperm evidence during the 1990’s found that Coleman was within 2% of the possible population of people who could have committed the crime. Coleman’s execution was allowed to proceed by then governor Douglas Wilder.The biological evidence used during Coleman's post-conviction appeal process has been under negotiation for months to agree on a proper method to have it re-tested. Four Virginia newspapers and the Centurion Ministries, a New Jersey organization, asked for the re-testing. The request was denied by the Virginia Supreme Court. With negotiations over the biological evidence successfully concluded, and with a new appeal from the Centurion Ministries to Governor Warner, the testing has begun and may conclude before the end of Warner’s governorship on January 14.The sperm has been kept frozen at a California laboratory for 15 years. Dr. Blake, the head of the lab, submitted an affidavit attesting to the integrity of the samples. The first set of samples was sent to the Ontario Centre of Forensic Sciences lab in Toronto on December 15. A second delivery currently is underway."We have found that the latest DNA technology—in certain instances where the other facts of a case support it—has provided a definitive result not available at the time of trial or post-conviction testing," said Governor Warner.A 34 year old obstetrician from Forestville on Sydney's Northern Beaches has escaped after he was robbed, car-jacked and locked in the boot (trunk) of his BMW, which was set alight. Police say the doctor was locked in the boot while his car was set alight, but was allowed to escape before flames engulfed the vehicle.The Doctor was believed to have been heading to The Mater Hospital in North Sydney when he was waiting at the intersection of West and Falcon Streets in Chatswood around 3:15AM AEDT when a small red sedan with two men claiming to be police officers signalled him to stop. After crossing the intersection, the doctor stopped his car at the side of the road.The doctor was then approached by the two men and when he asked to see identification, one man grabbed the keys from his car's ignition before they both pulled the doctor out of his vehicle, hit him in the stomach with a hammer and stole his mobile phone and wallet. The robbers also demanded his key and credit cards along with their access codes before locking him in the boot.Police allege that the men drove to several locations to withdraw cash and buy things before driving to Carisbook Street in Linley Point at around 4 a.m. local time where they set the car alight with the doctor still in the boot.Crime Manager of the Harbourside Local Area Command, Detective Inspector Houlahan said that the doctor then "heard a click in the boot area and he heard someone call out: 'Get out of the car'""When he pushed the boot up he found his car engulfed in flames."Det. Insp. Houlahan said the doctor told police he did not unlock the boot himself, and it appeared the man's captors unlocked it before fleeing.Det Insp Houlahan said that the doctor appeared to be "very distraught" and tired after the ordeal, and wanted to get home and see his wife and two young daughters.He could only provide police with a vague description of his captors, but said the men were both Caucasian males aged in their 20s, and that one of them was about six feet tall (183cm) with short blond hair and medium build said Det. Insp. Houlahan.A doctor who worked at Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania will be charged with aggravated murder after her mother was found dead in the trunk of her car Wednesday, authorities in Ohio say.  Dr. Malar Balasubramanian, 29, was found in Blue Ash, Ohio, a suburb approximately 15 miles north of Cincinnati lying on the ground beside the road in a T-shirt and underwear in an apparently heavily medicated state.  She directed officers to her black Oldsmobile Intrigue which was 500 feet away.  There, they found the body of Saroja Balasubramanian, 53, covered with blood-stained blankets. Police said that the body appeared to have been there for about a day.Dr. Malar Balasubramanian, formerly of the Squirrel Hill neighborhood of Pittsburgh, worked at Children's Hospital from June 2001 to June 2004, according to Melanie Finnigan, a hospital spokeswoman.  She had recently returned from work in India.Two doctors who treated actor John Ritter for chest pain in Burbank, California were cleared of a negligence lawsuit on Friday. Ritter was an American television and film actor who died of aortic dissection on 11 September 2003.Ritter's children and widow (Amy Yasbeck) filed a US$67 million lawsuit claiming negligence by the doctors, both at the time Ritter fell ill and at a medical checkup two years earlier where problems with Ritter's aorta could have been spotted.A jury hearing the case at Los Angeles County Superior Court voted 9-3 to dismiss the claims, satisfied that the defendants, Dr. Joseph Lee and Dr. Matthew Lotysch, acted properly during their examination and treatment of Ritter.Ritter's last role was in leading the cast of the television series 8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter whose production was disrupted by his death.A documentary set to be shown on October 10, 2010 in Australia about the life and times of the soon to be canonised Mary MacKillop — who will be the first Australian to be made a saint — suggests that nuns including MacKillop of the Sisterhood of St Joseph of the Sacred Heart in South Australia were condemned and even excommunicated by high-ranking priests for informing the authorities of the apparent paedophilic acts of Father Patrick Keating at a local public school in Kapunda, South Australia.The excommunication of MacKillop and other nuns was performed by the Bishop of Adelaide, Laurence Bonaventure Sheil, in 1871, but the documentary is set to suggest that the influence of Father Charles Horan was the driving force behind the act. "She submitted to a farcical ceremony where the bishop was, I'm not sure you should use this word, gaga, but he had lost it and he was being manipulated by malicious priests," Father Paul Gardiner, a prominent figure in the canonisation of Mary McKillop, claims.According to Ignatius Fennessy in the Journal of the Galway Archaeological and Historical Society:"One Thursday evening, 21 September 1871, Horan told Mary MacKillop that the bishop (who had called while she was out that day) wanted her to go to another convent. She could not go that night and wanted to discuss matters with the sisters and the bishop as well. Horan told her that the bishop would not see her and added, 'I suppose you won't go.' She answered: 'Father, how can I under these circumstances.' Horan led her to believe that she was excommunicated. The next morning the bishop arrived with four priests and, in a ranting mood, amid the hysteria of some of the sisters, and with MacKillop kneeling down on her knees in the chapel, he excommunicated her and sent her back into the world."Bishop Shiel renounced the excommunications on his deathbed five months later.  The alleged paedophile priest, Father Keating, returned to Ireland, where he continued in fatherhood in the Catholic Church.Mary MacKillop officially becomes the first sainted Australian on October 17, 2010 in a ceremony at The Vatican.At a press conference today, Dallas County district attorney Craig Watkins presented several documents and items relating to the 1963 assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy. They were discovered over a year ago in a safe at the county courthouse.Among these items is a two-page transcript of a conversation alleged to have taken place between Lee Harvey Oswald, who was arrested for assassinating Kennedy, and Jack Ruby, who shot and killed Oswald two days after he was arrested. If the conversation was found to be real, it would provide support for many conspiracy theories regarding the assassination. "It will open up the debate as to whether or not there was a conspiracy to assassinate the president," Watkins said.The transcript suggests that Oswald and Ruby met at Ruby's nightclub on October 4, 1963, where they discussed a plan to "get rid of" then-Attorney General Robert Kennedy by shooting his brother, the President. "I can still do it, all I need is my rifle and a tall building," Oswald purportedly said. "But it will take time, maybe six months to find the right place..." Ruby says the money for the operation will be coming from the Mafia, but when Oswald asks Ruby if he is with the Mafia, Ruby replies with, "You're asking too many questions."Some have dismissed the transcript as fake, saying it reads more like a screenplay than an actual conversation. "It's not real. Crooks don't talk like that," said Terri Moore, top assistant to Craig Watkins. Also found in the safe were letters written by former District Attorney Henry Wade regarding a movie he was working on, titled Countdown in Dallas. It is unclear how much work was done on the film, although a movie deal signed by Wade was among the documents found. "The fact that it's sitting in Henry Wade's file, and he didn't do anything, indicates he thought it wasn't worth anything," said Gary Mack, curator of the Sixth Floor Museum. "He probably kept it because it was funny. It's hilarious. It's like a bad B movie." Mack says the conversation could not have taken place, as Oswald is believed to have been in Irving the night of October 4. Although Craig Watkins believes the transcript is likely a fake, he said he could not immediately dismiss it as such. Even if the document is bogus, he says, he had always questioned the official explanation for Kennedy's death. "You know me: I'm always a conspiracy theorist," Watkins said. "It was too simple of an explanation. I don't see that."The other items found in the safe, including Jack Ruby's brass knuckles, a leather gun holster, documents from Ruby's trial, and clothes belonging to Ruby and Oswald, are believed to be genuine. After all the items have been scanned, Watkins plans to donate them to a third party, so that they can be viewed by the public. "Our motto has always been that everything is open. We have nothing to hide. So we’re making public everything that we have found in the safe," Watkins said.During a court case between two US charter aircraft companies, documents have been released detailing flights chartered by the US government from private sector companies in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks to transport prisoners suspected of links to terrorism.The documents, totalling more than 1,700 pages, were released as part of a court case dating to 2007 between Sportsflight and Richmor Aviation.  The case concerned over US$1.15 million Richmor claimed it was owed by Sportsflight to cover costs associated with flights operated for the US government by DynCorp, another company involved in what have been dubbed rendition flights. Both companies referenced the practice in their legal arguments.Details within the files, including flights of aircraft, correspond to known flights made as part of the program; for example, one file matches the transportation of Abu Omar, an Egyptian cleric, to Cairo, where Omar claimed he was tortured.  Another matches the transportation of Encep Nuraman, an Indonesian terrorist.Other disclosures include that DynCorp, a major government contractor, was the main contractor for the rendition flights; Dyncorp had not been previously linked to the program. It was also revealed that letters from the US State Department were used to provide diplomatic cover for the operations, as well as evidence that the letters were possibly not genuine, since an official that signed them does not seem to exist.According to the files, Richmor, working with DynCorp, provided private jets and crews to the US government between May 2002 and January 2005, at a rate of about once a month. The planes were provided with State Department letters claiming their operations were "global support for U.S. embassies worldwide," and signed by a Terry A. Hogan, whom an Associated Press investigation failed to locate.The rendition flights were operated by DynCorp, which used aircraft supplied by Richmor, while Sportsflight and another broker, Capital Aviation, handled the finances.Amid publicity that arose from deaths and injuries due to dog attacks in the region, the Spotsylvania County Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to impose tougher penalties on dog owners who let their dogs run free.  After a public hearing Tuesday evening, the board voted for a new animal control ordinance.  Now dog owners who are repeat offenders face a misdemeanor crime of $2,500 or up to a year in jail.Dogs that repeatedly chase cars and run free, or otherwise trespass on property, could be euthanized if so ordered by a judge. A dog that is "roaming, running or self-hunting off the property or premises of its owner or custodian and not under the immediate control of the owner or custodian or his agent," meets the county's legal definition of a dog running at large. The mauling death of an elderly woman by 3 Pit Bulls in her front yard sparked a public debate on animal control.  At the hearing, State Senator Edward Houke said he would raise dog law issues in the January meeting of the Virginia General Assembly.  According to The Free Lance Star, Houke said, "It's pretty obvious to me that the state law needs to be changed, but saying that and it happening, is two completely different phenomena.  If there's one thing you learn quickly it's that you don't bring dog bills to the Virginia General Assembly."The Sullivan daughters, who lost their mother in the mauling attack, circulated petitions in the county and also attended the hearing. Board chairman Robert Hagan noted the Sullivan family presence and thanked them for their efforts to prevent more tragedies.Two dog attacks in a week puts Spotsylania County authorities in the spotlight to take action on pet owners for their dog's behavior. In unrelated incidences, an elderly woman was killed and another woman was bitten. Three dogs have been shot dead by police.An 82 year old woman was walking her Shih Tzu breed of dog in her front yard last week when she came under attack by three Pit Bulls. She died being transported to the hospital after police responded and shot two of the attacking dogs. They later captured the third dog and euthanized it.More recently, a 31 year old woman was bitten on her hand during a fight that ensued between two Pit Bulls in her back yard. The responding police officer shot the aggressor dog.Public outcry over the death of the elderly woman stirred procecutors to charge the dogs’ owner, Deeana Large, with involuntary manslaughter. This is a first for the Commonwealth of Virginia where charges that carry a maximum penalty of 10 years are leveled in a case involving a pet's owner. In order to gain an indictment, prosecuters will have to prove the dogs' owner was criminally negligent.  In the biting incident, the attacking dog’s owner faces a misdemeanor charge of letting the dog run at large.Deeana Large, who initially said she owned only 1 of the 3 dogs involved in the mauling case, has not yet been formally charged and awaits indictment. Investigators in the case say there were earlier reports of her dogs allegedly killing a German Shepard and a kittten in her neighborhood. Complaints by neighbors spurred an animal control officer to be looking for the dogs at the time the woman was killed.In what the RSPCA calls a "horrific" case of animal cruelty, a dog's jaw was taped shut, and its throat cut, in  Cairns, Australia.The Staffordshire mix, who was found by police in a critical condition last Thursday, was reportedly struggling to breath and bleeding heavily due to her throat being slashed and her muzzle being bound."The way they cut was almost down to the larynx, so muscles were cut but luckily they missed the jugular veins," said Sarah Gill, the vet who stitched the 10 cm long, 3 cm deep cut.In a statement reported on Tuesday, Inspector Cameron Buswell, a law enforcement officer with the RSPCA animal welfare charity, said it is hard to comprehend that there are people in the community capable of this level of cruelty."This would have to be up there as one of the more horrific cases we've dealt with [...]The poor dog must have been petrified. How she didn't die is miraculous." he said.Named 'Franky' by rescuers, the dog is progressing well along her road to recovery, has a warm, loving and kind nature, and has begun to come out of her shell, Buswell said."She is a really nice natured animal and she loves being with people."This has become apart of string of violent attacks on pets in  Queensland. Another dog in North Queensland named 'Boof' was beaten and left to die with a 30 kg chain around his neck in January. In May, a family dog in Toowoomba had its throat slit and a rubber band placed around the wound, twice. The RSPCA is appealing for information from the public regarding the person or persons responsible for the latest attack.A man who allegedly cut his girlfriend's throat, slashed the face of the woman that came to her defense, and cut his own wrists and stomach before fleeing, has been found after a 3-1/2 hour search.  23-year-old Aaron Noel Camey Valenzuela was apparently discovered hiding in a crate by cameraman George Rodrique.“There were all these boxes of firewood, and as I was sitting there looking around, I saw the lid coming slowly up and a guy who looked to be on the phone. I had to look twice because I didn’t think it was happening because there were a lot of police officers standing around.” Rodrique said. He promptly reported his sighting to the police, who apparently contacted Valenzuela on his cell phone before taking him into custody. They were unable to find weapons of any kind on his person or anywhere on Sholan Farms, the city-owned apple orchard where the suspect was discovered.The police arrived at the United Solutions plastics factory in Leominster, Massachusetts, around 7 a.m. Sunday morning responding to a 911 call from another worker at the plant. "An employee cut his girlfriend's throat. He cut his own throat and he's cutting his wrists right now. He's got a knife cutting his wrist," the caller allegedly told the dispatcher. By the time they arrived, Valenzuela had already fled the scene.The victims were given immediate care, as the girlfriend and her unidentified coworker were rushed to separate local hospitals. The police have stated that the girlfriend was taken into surgery for her injuries, and is currently in stable condition. Neither victim has been identified.After the suspect's discovery and subsequent surrender to police, he was also taken to Leominster Hospital, where he is currently recuperating from his self-inflicted wounds. Identified by police by his consulate ID card from Guatemala, Valenzuela was allegedly deported from the U.S. four years ago, but re-entered the country illegally at an undetermined date.Reports differ as to whether the suspect and the woman whose throat he slashed were in a relationship at the time of the incident, or whether they had separated. Police have said that there was a domestic dispute between the couple at the plant about three weeks ago, which was handled by the company's human resource department. Apparently the two were moved to different parts of the plant after the dispute.Valenzuela is currently being held on $25,000 bail, and is charged with two counts of assault and battery with a dangerous weapon and attempt to murder. His arraignment is scheduled for Monday, February 1st.Yesterday's  discovery of a bound man, believed to be of Haitian ancestry, hanged from a tree in Santiago, Dominican Republic has drawn attention to anti-Hatian sentiments in the nation.The Dominican Republic and Haiti between them make up the island of Hispaniola and Dominicans have grown concerned by Haitian immigration in recent years. Police say they believe the man, known to his friends as Tulile, was murdered during a robbery. Police officers anonymously told reporters a winning lottery ticket may have been the motive.Aged around 23, Tulile made his living shining shoes and taking commissions from money lending in the area he was murdered. Bound hand and foot, his body was found at dawn in Ercilia Pepín park, Sabana Larga street. The scene is close to the University Hospital Jose Maria Cabral y Báe, around which Tulile worked.This week saw the public burning of Haiti's flag in Santiago by local residents, saying it symbolised their rejection of Haitian immigration. The issue is a hot topic, with a court ruling two years ago retrospectively stripping Dominicans born to unregistered Haitian parents from 1930 onwards of their citizenship.Only 7,000 of an estimated 200,000 eligible residents have signed up for residency cards, a scheme instigated by the government in the face of international pressure. The deadline to apply for the permits, which allow citizenship after two years, has passed."They shouldn't have to apply for residency," said Santiago Canton of the Robert F Kennedy Center for Human Rights in a Guardian interview. "They are Dominicans." Canton said the murder should be viewed "in the context of constant discrimination and violence against Haitians".Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the head of the International Monetary Fund, has been refused bail after appearing in court in New York charged with sexually assaulting a chambermaid at a hotel in Manhattan. The decision by the judge to remand him in custody yesterday will likely disrupt emergency talks over the European debt crisis, demolish hopes that he will challenge Nicolas Sarkozy for the French presidency, and spell the end of his political career.In court, Strauss-Kahn appeared sombre and tired. The judge agreed with the argument by the prosecution that the French politician was a flight risk after he reportedly tried to flee the country on a passenger jet for Paris. The defence said Strauss-Kahn denied the charges against him and offered $1,000,000 bail and said he would reside in Manhattan with an electronic bracelet, but the judge refused. Afterwards, defence lawyer Benjamin Brafman said: "This battle has just begun."The politician appeared in court charged with three crimes, including attempted rape, after a chambermaid told detectives she had been sexually assaulted by Strauss-Kahn in a luxury hotel near Times Square. "The maid described being forcibly attacked, locked in the room and sexually assaulted," a spokesperson for the New York Police Department said. Detectives said the politician was detained in the first class cabin of the passenger plane which was minutes from leaving for Paris. Strauss-Kahn had reportedly fled the hotel "in a hurry" after the attack, leaving a number of personal effects behind. Prosecutors have last night announced they are investigating claims made by a French author, Tristane Banon, that she was sexually assaulted by Strauss-Kahn in 2002. At the time, her mother—socialist councillor Anne Mansouret— persuaded her not to press charges against him, but yesterday she told French television that Strauss-Kahn had an "addiction" to "preying" on women, and had "a difficulty in controlling his impulses." The author's lawyer has announced he is planning to file a complaint with Banon to officials about the alleged attack. Kahn can be convicted and sentenced over the alleged attacks on the chambermaid and on Banon because he does not have diplomatic immunity.Strauss-Kahn was considered a serious contender and was expected to announce his candidacy against Sarkozy this month, but the allegations are expected to destroy the hopes of his supporters, increase infighting among the French left, and leave his political career in tatters. His arrest comes at a critical moment for the IMF, and will likely plunge efforts to stabilise the financial states of struggling eurozone countries into chaos. Strauss-Kahn was meant to discuss the bailouts of Greece and Portugal with European Union financial officials at a meeting in Brussels this week.Dominique Strauss-Kahn has resigned as the head of the International Monetary Fund after he was arrested and charged with sexually attacking a chambermaid at a hotel in New York. In a statement to the executive board of the IMF, he said he was resigning from his position "with immediate effect" to "devote all my strength, all my time, and all my energy to proving my innocence." Officials at the IMF said they would soon be releasing information about his successor.In the statement to the board, he said it was "with infinite sadness" that he had to resign, and paid tribute to the IMF. "To all, I want to say that I deny with the greatest possible firmness all of the allegations that have been made against me," he said. The politician is currently being held at the notorious Rikers Island, where he has been put on suicide watch, after a judge at a court in Manhattan denied him bail for fears he was a flight risk after he reportedly tried to flee the country on a passenger jet. In court earlier this week, where Strauss-Kahn appeared tired, he denied the charges against him and offered $1,000,000 bail, but the judge refused.Prosecutors allege Strauss-Kahn sexually assaulted a chambermaid at a luxury hotel near Times Square. "The maid described being forcibly attacked, locked in the room and sexually assaulted," a spokesperson for the New York Police Department said. Detectives said the politician was detained in the first class cabin of the Air France passenger plane which was minutes from leaving for Paris. Strauss-Kahn had reportedly fled the hotel "in a hurry" after the attack, leaving a number of personal effects behind. He was charged with committing a criminal sexual act, attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching.Investigators have this week continued to search the hotel room where the alleged attack took place, removing a piece of carpet in the suite which they hope will prove the allegation by the chambermaid that he forced her to have oral sex. Benjamin Brafman, the lawyer defending Strauss-Kahn, said forensic evidence found in the room at the Sofitel New York hotel "will not be consistent with a forcible encounter". Strauss-Kahn is to make another court appearance to plead for bail again this morning, Brafman said; the defence is reportedly considering telling the judge he will surrender his passport, wear an electronic tag, and remain under strict living conditions.The IMF has said it will soon release information about Strauss-Kahn's successor; John Lipsky, the deputy head, has been acting as head since the arrest at the weekend. The incident comes at a critical time for the IMF as it tries to the financial states of struggling eurozone countries. Strauss-Kahn was meant to discuss the bailouts of Greece and Portugal with European Union financial officials at a meeting in Brussels earlier this week. Before his arrest he was expected to announce his candicacy in the race for the French presidency, and analysts suggested he posed a real threat to Nicolas Sarkozy, but the charges will likely put and end to the hopes of his supporters.Don Imus has reportedly reached a settlement with CBS and is now negotiating with New York's WABC radio for a job there.CBS spokesman Dana McClintock said Imus and CBS Radio reached a settlement to pre-empt Imus' threatened $120 million breach-of-contract lawsuit.Martin Garbus, Imus' lawyer, and CBS Radio issued a joint statement, saying "[Imus and CBS Radio] have mutually agreed to settle claims that each had against the other regarding the Imus radio program on CBS,"  but did not release any specific details about the settlement.Imus was fired from both CBS radio and MSNBC in April after using the phrase "nappy headed hos" when describing the Rutgers women's basketball team.CBS and MSNBC argued Imus' remark was racist and sexist. Meanwhile, Imus' attorney cited a clause in his contract that said CBS acknowledged that Imus' services were "unique, extraordinary, irreverent, intellectual, topical, controversial."On the same day, Imus was sued by Kia Vaughn, a Rutgers team member. That suit also named NBC and CBS as defendants. The suit alleges libel and seeks monetary damages as of yet unannounced.A G8 summit has been planned to take place from 15-17 July in St Petersburg, Russia. Several sources have reported that a systematic police crackdown on people participating in alternative meetings (a Libertarian Forum and the Russian Social Forum) and critical of the official meeting has begun almost a week prior to the summit. Estimates range from dozens to one or two hundred arrests and detentions.For the past several years, especially since the 27th G8 summit in 2001 in Genoa, the G8 summits of the leaders of seven of the world's richest industrialised countries and of Russia have been regularly met by popular protests by critics who assert that members of G8 are responsible for global issues such as global warming due to carbon dioxide emission, poverty in Africa and developing countries due to debt crisis and unfair trade policy, exacerbating the AIDS crisis by medicine patent policy and other problems that are related to globalization. These protests have been met by massive numbers of arrests and police violence, on some occasions.In contrast to previous G8 meetings, this time arrests have been taking place a week before the official meeting itself has started. At least 23-25 human rights activists and political activists, including two German citizens, have been detained by police in Moscow, St Petersburg and other cities in Russia since 7 July. Many of them have been sentenced to ten days' imprisonment, enough to prevent them from participation in political protests until the end of the official summit.Some sources claim that the true detention rate may be much higher, such as an unconfirmed report attributed to the Siberian Confederation of Labour (Сибирской Конфедерации Труда) claiming 200 arrests. The activists' legal team claims that more than 100 arrests and detainments have occurred.Discussions on global energy issues and other themes have started at the Libertarian Forum despite the arrests, and the Russian Social Forum is expected to start on schedule on 13 July, followed by the official G8 meeting on 15-17 July. Permission to carry out a street demonstration by the Russian Social Forum has been refused by the authorities.Russian authorities say that demonstrations are permitted, but only in the location set aside for them - a sports stadium about 25 km (16 miles) from the Constantine Palace, which will house the summit. The Russian Deputy Interior Minister Alexander Chekalin said that allegations of harassment were "from the realms of supposition". "The police's actions are commensurate with the situation at hand. The situation demands particular measures, sometimes intensified. Sometimes it demands that we visit a family in their apartment," He said.Before turning the gun on himself, a 20-year-old male opened fire at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, killing 28 people, 20 of them children ranging from five to ten years old. Approximately 600 students were inside the school. The New York Post identifies the shooter as 20-year-old Adam Lanza. He was reported to be in possession of a .223-caliber assault rifle and two hand guns when he opened fire inside the school. His motives are not yet clear, but reports say his mother Nancy, who was also killed, may have been the target. She was a teacher of a kindergarten class at the school. Adam's brother Ryan, who was initially reported to be the shooter, is also in police custody.United States president Barack Obama spoke in a televised address saying, "The majority of those who died today were children — beautiful little kids between the ages of 5 and 10 years old.  They had their entire lives ahead of them — birthdays, graduations, weddings, kids of their own. Among the fallen were also teachers — men and women who devoted their lives to helping our children fulfill their dreams. "So our hearts are broken today — for the parents and grandparents, sisters and brothers of these little children, and for the families of the adults who were lost. Our hearts are broken for the parents of the survivors as well, for as blessed as they are to have their children home tonight, they know that their children’s innocence has been torn away from them too early, and there are no words that will ease their pain."  A hospital near the school, in Danbury, Connecticut, is currently on lock down. According to The New York Times and Danbury Hospital's Facebook page, the hospital is treating three of the shooting victims.As of today, as many as 84 people are reported dead since Wednesday after drinking toxic homemade alcohol sold in a slum in Malad in northern Mumbai. More than twenty others are reported admitted to hospital for alcohol poisoning.File:Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis.jpgPolice said five people have been arrested for the transport and sale of the alcohol with three men ages 30 to 50 taken into police custody on Thursday night, and eight police suspended for failing to prevent the incident.An investigation has been ordered by Devendra Fadnavis, the present chief minister of Maharashtra state.Illicit alcohol is commonly sold in India usually in the poorer, more rural areas of the country and deaths from alcohol poisoning are not uncommon. However, this is the largest rash of deaths in Mumbai since the Vikhroli hooch tragedy of 2004 where more than 100 people died due to low-cost alcohol.As many as 45 people have been killed and six others were injured after at least four gunmen with grenades stormed a wedding reception in the village of Bilge located in Turkey. Many of those killed were women and children. The attack is not believed to be related to terrorism."According to our investigations so far nothing indicates that this is a terror attack but a larger investigation is being run by the regional prosecutor," said the interior minister of Turkey, Besir Atalay. The attack is believed to be part of an ongoing blood feud between two families. Al Jazeera says the attack may also be related to rival gangs of village guards.According to one unnamed witness as quoted by Reuters, "a few people" wearing masks entered the house where the reception was being held, "spraying the place with bullets" and began to shoot people, with the attack lasting at nearly 15 minutes. At least 200 people were believed to have been attending the reception.Dozens of people have been killed in Mexico after two separate prison riots broke out in the city of Mazatlan.According to the Public Safety Secretary, in the first attack, which occurred Monday, twenty inmates of the jail were shot to death after members of a gang started shooting at a rival group. Jail security staff managed to regain control of the prison, and found two assault rifles inside.Another inmate was hospitalised and later died; three policemen were also wounded, and one is in serious condition.Eight hours afterwards, another clash erupted, this time when inmates were stabbed by fellow prisoners, according to Public Safety Department spokesman Angeles Moreno. He added that police are investigating the cause of the attacks.Almost 100 cats and one dog were found living in a feces- and filth-ridden New Jersey house, in what local authorities are calling among the worst cases of animal cruelty they have ever seen.Authorities had to wear masks in order to help them breathe through the stench of urine as they removed cats from the million-dollar, two-story brick house in Chester Township."The conditions were absolutely horrific," said Rick Yocum, a lieutenant with the New Jersey Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. "There wasn't one inch of that house that wasn't covered in feces or urine. There were three foot piles of feces in the hallways.Wanda Oughton, the homeowner who lives there with two adult children, is expected to face criminal and civil charges, possibly as early as this weekend.According to media reports, the floors, couches and tables of the home were littered with waste, and garbage was crammed into microwaves and ovens. The bottom of a bathtub had an eight-inch mound of feces, authorities said."It was horrible to go in there," SPCA spokesman Matt Stanton said. "Our people had to fill their nostrils with Vick's VapoRub and wear masks. They could only go in for five minutes at a time and had to come out to get fresh air again."Oughton refused to leave the house during the initial investigation and declined to speak to reporters."Go away. Go away. We have a call in to the police," two women yelled at reporters through the front door.SPCA officials believe Oughton and her family to be animal hoarders, not "horrible people", said SPCA Superintendent Frank Rizzo."For hoarders, the animal is the most important thing," Rizzo said. "More important than their own health."Yocum said they plan to ask Oughton to undergo a mental health assessment.About 20 cats were removed from the house Thursday and are being treated for upper respiratory problems. The remaining cats are to be taken out Friday, and will be distributed to different veterinarians so no one office is too overwhelmed.In November 2006 Pensacola, Florida evangelist Kent Hovind and his wife, Jo, were found guilty on 58 federal counts of "willful failure" to payroll taxes, structuring bank withdrawals, and obstructing federal agents. On January 19, 2007 Hovind was given ten years in federal prison, ordered to pay $640,000 in owed funds to the Internal Revenue Service, pay prosecution's court costs of $7,078, and serve three years parole once released. Originally in November, Hovind was ordered to forfeit $430,400 and faced a maximum of 288 years in prison.A driver has been fined after following the directions of his satellite navigation system, leading him to the edge of a massive cliff drop in West Yorkshire, England. Robert Jones, who is 43 years old, appeared in Calderdale Magistrates Court on Tuesday, representing himself. He was prosecuted by Waseem Raja. Waseem told the court: "The defendant was using a TomTom satellite navigation system. The defendant followed that system to the letter, so much so it led him up a lane clearly unsuitable for motor vehicles.""The path was such it was not designed for use of motor vehicles yet Mr Jones slavishly continued to follow the satnav system to the point where his eyes and his brain must have been telling him otherwise to such a degree he was not exercising proper control of the vehicle."On March 22, 2009, Robert Jones was driving a BMW 5 Series and was trying to get to his home in Doncaster, South Yorkshire after staying with friends in Todmorden, West Yorkshire. He was unsure of the route home and so followed his satellite navigation system, which was in the car. He continued to follow instructions despite being told that the narrowing dirt track he was driving on was actually a road. At the time the petrol gauge in the car indicated that he had just seven miles of fuel left. Because of this, Jones was desperate to find a filling station. He became so distracted by the sat-nav that he didn't realise his mistakes until he struck a fence on the edge of a 100 foot (30.5 metre) drop. The battery on his mobile phone had run out so he had to walk to a nearby village to get help.In his defence, Robert told the court: "I might have been an idiot for taking the wrong road or carrying on but I have not driven without due care or attention. I'm sorry it happened. I certainly would not do it again. I drive 5,000 miles a week and I never have had a problem with it. I had no reason not to trust it."Jones was found guilty of driving without due care and attention. He was fined £370 (US$610) with £500 ($824) costs and ordered to pay a £15 ($24) victim surcharge. He also got six points on his licence and had to pay £1,000 ($1,624) in recovery charges.Acting via his lawyers, Volodoymyr Zhukovskyy, 23, pleaded not guilty on Tuesday to seven counts of negligent homicide in New Hampshire, United States.  Zhukovskyy waived arraignment and did not physically appear in court. According to police and county officials, Zhukovskyy was driving a pickup truck "erratically and across the double-yellow center line" on U.S. Route 2 in Randolph, New Hampshire on the night of June 21 and struck a group of motorcycles, killing seven riders and injuring three more.Travis Hood, who witnessed the collision, said "I don't really don't know what he was doing [...] The truck pretty much was like in the middle of the yellow line, and the guy pretty much cleaned out the whole — the bikes were riding side-by-side, and the guy cleaned out pretty much every bike that was there besides one of them."Zhukovskyy was arrested Monday at his home in the neighboring state of Massachusetts and waived extradition to New Hampshire.According to police in Baytown, Texas, Zhukovskyy has been involved in traffic collisions before. Reportedly, he struck a guard rail on June 3 and flipped the Mack truck he had been driving on its side.  According to investigators, Zhukovskyy said he had over-corrected after being cut off by another driver, and he was not cited for the incident.  The Associated Press reports Zhukovskyy has also been stopped for suspicion of driving while inebriated.The court determined Zhukovskyy's driving history rendered him a danger to himself or to the public. For this reason, he was not granted bail. His trial has been scheduled for November.LOS ANGELES — Eleven charges of murder have been brought against the driver who caused the Glendale train crash, in which 11 people died. Juan Manuel Alvarez, 25, could well face the death penalty for his actions. It appears he parked his Jeep Cherokee on the railway line with the intention of committing suicide, but then changed his mind and left the vehicle. Three trains carrying approximately 350 people were involved in the crash, injuring up to 200 passengers.His arraignment was delayed from Thursday to Friday due to his medical condition. He was charged with 11 counts of murder and was held without bail in a hospital's jail ward after apparently slitting his own wrists and stabbing himself in the chest. Prosecutors have filed 10 counts of murder with so-called special circumstances, and will add the 11th victim to the complaint shortly. Under California law, this makes Alvarez eligible for the death penalty.The accident was caused as a result of a chain-reaction derailment of three Union Pacific trains. Investigators are continuing to try to determine the exact sequence of events.A training program in which officers observe volunteers who may be high on drugs, and is used in 30 U.S. states, has the Edmonton Police Service and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) in a public relations nightmare.  Acting police chief Mike Bradshaw says "the training is meant to help police officers identify how people behave when they are on drugs."Bradshaw is also quoted saying police did not provide the men and women - some of them prostitutes - with any drugs during a training session in December. Cpl. Wayne Oakes of the RCMP clarified the issue of who gave the volunteers the drugs, claiming the police officers were not even present when the drugs were administered, the volunteers used their own drugs.Bradshaw says the police asked the Metis Child and Family Services Society to provide the nine volunteers, however not all of them were aboriginal. They may or may not have been high during the session.The volunteers were anonymous and were not promised anything in return for their participation. An internal investigation has been launched into the program because of one complaint -- not from any of the volunteers -- although police said that's a standard procedure.On Thursday, several shootouts occurred in Mexico leaving nine cartel suspects dead, killing seven police officers, and injuring close to 30 others.Following the several gun battles, police seized 1.2 million pesos (more than US$92,000), cocaine, assault rifles, police uniforms, bullet proof vests, handcuffs, hand grenades, and a variety of other military weapons.Federal agents went missing and a search initiated by the Hidalgo state police found them alive near an auto racetrack in the Mineral de la Reforma municipality. Shortly after their discovery a shootout took place. Acting on a tip, police pulled over four trucks near Pachuca which resulted in a firefight, lasting 20 minutes, after which cartel suspects fled the scene. Over a dozen were left dead and 22 injured including several police agents in Pachuca. The cities of Silao, La Calera and Irapuato in the state of Guanajuato suffered both grenade and artillery shootouts which took the life of one police officer, killed an innocent bystander, and critically injured another 18. The police station in Silao was attacked by hand grenades, AK-47 assault rifles and R-15 semi-automatic rifles; the attacks killed two people and placed ten in the hospital. Nine cartel suspects were killed in the city of La Calera. Another attack Thursday night killed a police investigator in the city of Ciudad Juárez in the state of Chihuahua.Mexican federal police recently arrested top leaders of the La Familia Michoacana drug cartel, making these attacks likely retaliation. A similar modus operandi was seen where simultaneous shootouts across Mexico occurred targeting police stations in July.The President of Mexico Felipe Calderón, along with US President, Barack Obama, have initiated a crack down on drug gangs. The Mexican Drug War which began in December 2006 has resulted in an estimated 10,000 fatalities, of which about 10% have been police officials.New South Wales Police, on Monday arrested and charged two people in separate simultaneous raids in Northern NSW. The raids follow an investigation into cannabis supply by Strike Force Bayan.Police conducted three separate raids simultaneously around 7:30 p.m. on properties in Mullaway, Woolgoolga and Halfway Creek, all just North of Coffs Harbour on the NSW North Coast.Police claim to have seized AUD $400,000 worth of cannabis at a property in Mullaway and have arrested and charged a 35 year-old man with drug possession.The other person caught by the operation was a 46 year-old woman at the Woolgoolga property. She was charged with supplying cocaine.Police found a large amount of cannabis and money at the Halfway Creek property but are yet to lay charges over the discovery.Back in December 2000, a Alcohol and Other Drug Sector Agency Forum discovered that the rate of cannabis use among young people in the Coffs Harbour area was particularly high and that many cannabis users come from families where parents and even grandparents use the drug.California high school students’ consumption of alcohol, tobacco and illegal drugs is headed up, according to a nationwide study of teen substance abuse released in April.  The report, released by the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, compared substance abuse statistics from their latest survey, in 2004, with statistics collected in 2002. It was based on interviews of more than 135,000 people.Nationwide, the rate of underaged drinking remained basically unchanged, but in California, it rose from 15.28 percent of California children between 12 and 17-years-old who said they had consumed alcohol in the previous month in 2002, to 16.81 percent who said they had in 2004.Binge drinking, defined as drinking five or more drinks on the same occasion (i.e., at the same time or within a couple of hours of each other) on at least one day in the past 30 days, was reported by 10.27 percent of kids in 2004, up from the 9.16 percent who said they binged in 2002.The report found that, in 2004, 10.9 percent of the nation’s kids from the ages of 12 to 17 had used an illegal drug in the past month, down from 11.4 percent in 2002.In California, the number of kids who said they had used an illicit drug in the past month rose, from 11.44 percent in 2002 to 12.05 percent in 2004.Among California’s 12- to 17-year-olds, those who said they had used marijuana in the previous month rose from 7.66 percent in 2002 to 8.52 percent in 2004. Those who had used marijuana in the past year rose from 14.11 percent to 14.6 percent over the period.Only cocaine use was down among the age group, from 1.7 percent who said they had used it in the past year to 1.61 percent.The use of any illicit drug, other than marijuana, in the month preceding the interviews of the 12- to 17-year-olds rose from 5.79 percent to 5.97 percent, according to the report. Nearly 8 percent of the age group in California had used pain relievers for “non-medical” purposes, such as getting high, the survey reported, a topic not explored in the previous survey.More than 9 percent of California kids from 12-17 said they were abusers of or dependent on alcohol or illicit drugs in the 2004 survey, up from just over 8 percent in 2002.Tobacco use, including chewing tobacco, increased in the age group from 9.22 percent to 10.88 percent. Cigarette smoking rose from 7.48 percent to 8.69 percent. Fewer smokers, however, reported being at great risk of smoking a pack or more a day.The report, State Estimates of Substance Use from the 2003-2004 National Surveys on Drug Use and Health, issued April 6, estimates state rates of use of illegal drugs, binge and underage drinking, serious mental illness and tobacco use. SAMHSA combined two years of data from the annual National Survey on Drug Use and Health to enhance the precision of estimates for the less populous states.The report shows that California increased from 24.7 percent of 12 to 20 year olds using alcohol in the past month to 26.3 percent, while Wisconsin increased from 34.7 percent to 38.3 percent. Michigan and South Carolina, however, showed decreases in underage drinking from 31.8 percent to 30.2 percent for Michigan and from 27.3 percent to 24.1 percent for South Carolina.For illegal drug use, six states registered decreases in current use among youth ages 12-17, Illinois, Nebraska, North Carolina, South Dakota, Vermont and Virginia. There were no statistically significant increases in current drug use among youth in any state, and there were no increases in either the 18-to-25 year old age group or the 26- and -older age group.“While we are making progress on drug and tobacco use among youth, underage drinking continues as a stubbornly persistent problem,” SAMHSA Administrator Charles Curie said. “It’s time to change attitudes toward teen drinking from acceptance to abstinence. It begins by recognizing the importance of parents talking to their children early and often about alcohol, especially before they’ve started drinking.”The estimates show that past month use of any illicit drug in 2003-2004 ranged from a low of 5.8 percent in Mississippi to a high of 11.8 percent in Alaska for all persons aged 12 and older. Four jurisdictions showed decreases from 2002-2003 in current use of any illicit drug: the District of Columbia, Florida, Nevada and Washington.“State-by-state data is a powerful tool for policymakers at the federal, state and local levels to identify needs and target prevention and treatment resources. It is clear from the findings that illicit drug, alcohol and tobacco use varies substantially among states and regions. That is why we continue to work though innovative programs like Access to Recovery to increase the flexibility of federal funding available to states and communities,” Curie said.Mississippi and Utah had the lowest rate of past month marijuana use (4.2 percent) in 2003-2004 for population ages 12 and older, while Alaska had the highest rate (9.9 percent). Eight states were ranked in the top fifth nationally for past month marijuana use in all three age groups, 12 to 17, 18 to 25 and 26 and older. These states are Alaska, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Mexico, Oregon, Rhode Island and Vermont.Seven jurisdictions had decreases in past month use of marijuana between 2002-2003 and 2003-2004 for those ages 12 and older: Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, and Washington.Rhode Island had the highest percentage of persons aged 12 or older using cocaine in the past year, 3.5 percent. Ohio was the only state to show a decline in the use of cocaine in the past year, from 2.5 percent to 2.1 percent of persons aged 12 and older.In the District of Columbia and Hawaii, approximately 3.1 percent of those 12 or older used narcotic pain relievers nonmedically, while 6.3 percent of those in Kentucky did. Washington and Kentucky were in the highest fifth for use of prescription pain relievers nonmedically in all three age groups. Arkansas and Maine had increases in the 12-17 age group, while California, Montana and New York had increases in nonmedical use of prescription pain medications among those ages 18 to 25. A decrease in nonmedical use of pain relievers was seen among those ages 12 and older in Hawaii (from 3.9 to 3.1 percent).Eight states were in the top fifth for both underage use of alcohol and underage binge use of alcohol: Iowa, Massachusetts, Montana, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Rhode Island, South Dakota and Wisconsin.Tobacco use in the past month by youth increased in California, but overall in California, tobacco use by those 12 and older fell from 22.5 percent to 20.7 percent due to a decrease among persons aged 26 and older. In Kansas, the percentage of persons aged 18-25 using tobacco in the past month increased from 45.7 percent to 49.9 percent.The data show that West Virginia had the highest rate of serious psychological distress among persons aged 18 and older in the past year (12.7 percent) while Hawaii had the lowest rate (7.1 percent). Increases in serious psychological distress appeared in 10 states, Arizona, California, Florida, Illinois, Iowa, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Texas, West Virginia and Wyoming, generally the result of increases among persons aged 26 and older.Rio de Janeiro —At least 11 people were killed Dec. 26 and 27 in neighborhood gang turf fights between drug dealers at shantytown "morro da Mineira" (Miner Hill) in the Catumbi neighborhood of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.The fight originated when  Gilson Ramos da Silva, 21, a.k.a. "Gilson Aritana," a member of the ADA ("Amigos do Bairro") gang led other members into the "morro da Mineira" (Miner Hill) to sell  drugs, Ricardo Teixeira Dias, a local police official said.The region is controlled by rival gang Comando Vermelho (Red Command), which does not approve of other gangs selling drugs in the region. Comando Vermelho members started attacking the rival members of ADA to protect their turf.On Dec. 26, one man was killed and five others hurt in a gang gunfight with police. There was panic and several residents from the neighborhood could not get into their houses and were forced to seek shelter elsewhere.  That afternoon, a burned body was found at Presidente Vargas Ave. near "Sambódromo" plaza not far from "morro da Mineira".Police found seven beheaded and burned bodies at "morro da Mineira", in a dump area. The police arrived there after receiving an anonymous tip presumably from a resident of the neighborhood. The police believe there are more dead at nearby "morro do Zinco" (Zinc Hill) neighborhood.  The  morning of Dec. 27, Anderson Santos de Oliveira, 21, was killed by the police in a gunfight. The police said he was carrying a .38 calibre pistol, a 380 pistol  and marijuana. By 4:00 P.M. Luciano da Costa Pinto, 22, had also been killed by police in a different incident where police recovered rifles and drugs.The driver of a National Express coach has been arrested on suspicion of Drunk Driving and Dangerous Driving after his coach clipped the curb and overturned, hitting a lamp post and tree, at Newport Pagnell services, in Buckinghamshire, United Kingdom, at around 16:00 BST.Six of the 33 passengers were seriously injured and another 24 sustained minor injuries on the 777 service carrying holiday makers from Birmingham to London Stansted.  First Aid was administered by the staff at the services before the 15 ambulances and 4 air ambulances arrived at the scene.After firefighters arrived at the scene it took them 40 minutes to remove the driver from the wreckage on the entrance slip to the services and the scene remains closed as investigation work continues.It is the second recent incident involving a National Express coach, the previous involving the overturning of a double decker coach which caused the death of three passengers.A woman with a blood alcohol reading of 0.14 has been arrested and charged after crashing into a police car in Kings Cross, a suburb of Eastern Sydney early this morning.Police officials claim the 27 year old woman was driving a Volkswagen the wrong way down a one way street when she collided with a police car parked outside Kings Cross Police Station. Following the collision, the woman drove off. Police later found the woman's car in a nearby alleyway where she and a male were standing.Both the woman and her companion were taken to Kings Cross Police Station where they were questioned about the incident. While at the station, police conducted a breath test on the woman, which returned a reading of 0.14 - almost 3 times the blood alcohol limit of 0.05 in New South Wales. Further investigation revealed that the woman did not hold a driver's licence.The woman was charged with mid-range PCA (driving under the influence of alcohol), driving whilst unlicensed and failing to give particulars after an accident.The woman was not injured in the accident and the police car suffered only minor damage.An international holiday flight was diverted after a British passenger allegedly became abusive to cabin crew. The Boeing 767, owned by Thomson Airways, landed in Bermuda; the woman is said to have attacked crewmembers.The flight was carrying 260 passengers to Punta Cana in the Dominican Republic from Manchester Airport. According to The Sun, the 45-year-old women was drinking alcohol from a secret stash. Cabin crew restrained her over disruption; she was handcuffed to her seat over the alleged assault.Brett Kenyon, 27, a passenger, said she was "shouting incoherently... She went for them [crew] and hit one of the male stewards. He had a big shiner. Even when police took her she was struggling and tried to run off."Thomson Airways released a statement saying the flight had diverted "following an incident involving a female passenger. The local authorities were notified of this incident and, in accordance with our procedures, the aircraft was met by the police upon landing at Bermuda airport where the passenger was removed from the flight".The women has since returned to the UK after she was escorted by two Bermudian police officers to Manchester Airport.Amid an escalating rape and racial discrimination scandal involving  members of the Duke University Men's Lacrosse team, Monday the university announced it has cancelled the rest of the team's season. Head coach Mike Pressler has also resigned after 16 seasons with the Blue Devils, winning last year's Atlantic Coast Conference championships, and leading his 2005 squad to the national title game.Allegations of rape surfaced last week when an African-American exotic dancer came forward, saying she was forcefully engaged into sexual intercourse by a group of caucasian lacrosse players at a house party. The investigation is continuing, with investigators awaiting DNA test results from all 46 white athletes on the team of 47. No charges have been filed. However, a team member has been suspended from the University for an e-mail proposing a grisly entertainment in his dorm room.  DNA samples have been taken from the 46 caucasian team members.A worker at a Dunedin, New Zealand Subway has been sacked from her full-time job for "serious misconduct". Her manager sacked her when she shared some of her free Diet Coke with a friend in distress. After being sacked, she was also charged with the theft of two NZ$4.00 drinks by the New Zealand Police.Jackie Lang, the employee, was entitled to a free drink while she was working at the George Street franchise of Subway. "They are allowed endless amounts of soft drink if they work there. Her friend came in all upset and distressed, so Jackie took a break, poured a drink and sat down with her," Bill Clark, from the Autonomous Workers Union, said.Mr. Clark said it was the most vicious action that a company has done in relation to the offence that he has had to deal with, a view shared with Ms Lang. Ms Lang said, "I shared my drink with my friend. I was only trying to comfort her. Isn't it what most people would do? I mean, I wasn't trying to do anything wrong. I did what I thought any person would do in the situation."Ms. Lang was suspended for two weeks following the incident after management was shown video footage on March 19. After being suspended she filed a personal grievance case, at which point the franchise owners went to the police. She was subsequently arrested and put in jail for two hours 20 days after being suspended. The video shows that Ms. Lang took a break following her friend coming into the workplace. She then shares her drink, gets a free refill and leaves it with her friend while she continued her work.At 12.00 p.m. (NZST) the Otago University Young Labour branch organised a protest, starting at the university and finishing at the George Street Subway. President of the university's Young Labour branch, Ashley Murchison said, "I’m disappointed that any employer would treat their workers like this, especially over a matter this trivial, which could have easily been resolved internally."Before the incident, Jackie Lang had a clean employment history and no criminal record, which is why she is surprised the case wasn't handled internally. "It's a human thing to do to offer a drink as comfort. If Subway doesn't like it, they have internal procedures to deal with that," she said.Prior to the protest, Young Labour announced a nationwide boycott of Subway, though promoting a focus on Dunedin.The franchise co-owner, Rob Nicol, has refused to comment on the matter stating it is a matter between herself, her business partner, the police and the employee.Ms. Lang will appear in Dunedin District Court later this month.Dutch Minister Alexander Pechtold's radical suggestion to legalise cannabis in the Netherlands has been supported by the mayors of 20 out of 30 of the largest Dutch cities, including the mayors of Leeuwarden, Utrecht, Lelystad, Deventer, and Tilburg, according to an investigation by the Dutch newspaper Trouw. Pechtold promoted the legalisation of cannabis throughout Europe earlier this week. Pechtold's plans are opposed by Justice Minister Piet Hein Donner however, who is advocating a tougher policy against cannabis.The possession, consumption, and selling of cannabis, claimed by some to be less harmful and less addictive than tobacco, though not strictly legal, has been tolerated in the Netherlands for a number of years. The cultivation of cannabis, however, still poses a problem to most cities. Utrecht Mayor Annie Brouwer noted fire risks, tensions with residential areas and the illegal tapping of electricity as reasons to get cannabis cultivation to the surface, so that it can be regulated. The mayors also argued that a successful test could show Europe the benefits of legalising cannabis.A discussion on Dutch soft drug policy is to be held later today.File:GeertWilders.jpgIn a letter published this morning in the paper de Volkskrant, Dutch Member of Parliament Geert Wilders advocated proscribing the Qur'an, the central religious text of Islam.The right-wing politician, who is the leader of the Party for Freedom, compared the Muslim holy book with Adolf Hitler’s book Mein Kampf, which is currently one of the few books proscribed in the Netherlands today. According to Wilders, the Qur'an is "a fascist book" that promotes violence and should only be allowed for academic studies. In the letter, Wilders stated that the people who had beaten up local politician Ehsan Jami had been inspired by the Qur'an and that he was ashamed of "the cowards" in the political capital The Hague. Wilders said that he probably will not get a majority in parliament for the proscription, but he will not let that stop him from introducing legislation to this effect.On the same day the letter ran in de Volkskrant, Els Lucas, a lawyer from Lelystad, filed a police complaint against Wilders, saying that the politician is inciting hatred between groups within the population.Responding to the news of the police report, Wilders said "I do not want to incite hate; I want the Koran to be banned. That is a political opinion. I am in Parliament in order to express my political opinion."A spokesperson for the prosecutor's office in Lelystad confirmed receipt of the complaint and said the office would investigate the report.Since his election to parliament in 1997, Wilders has been in Dutch news a number of times with statements about immigration and the Islam. In 2004, he left right-wing liberal party People's Party for Freedom and Democracy to set up his own party. In the election of 2006, his party won 9 seats in the Dutch parliament which has 150 seats.On Tuesday, the upper house of the Dutch parliament voted in favour of a face-veil ban which is applicable to places including public transport, government buildings, schools, and hospitals.Banning Muslim women's clothings — Burqa and Niqab — has been discussed in the parliament for many years. The face veil ban was passed by the lower house in 2016. In 2015, the advisors of Parliament said wearing a burqa or niqab was guaranteed by the constitutional right to religious freedom.The face veil ban makes it illegal for citizens to cover their face. Wearing helmets inside government buildings is also banned. DutchNews.nl reported the fine of violating the law is €400. The ban does not apply on the streets.Calling the day historic, Senator Marjolein Faber-Van de Klashorst said it was "the first day to de-Islamise the Netherlands." "This is the first step and the next step is to close the mosques in the Netherlands", Van de Klashorst said. Senator Ruard Ganzevoort of the Green Party said, "It is completely disproportionate and the only effect will be that many of these women will stay at home even more [...] They will not have an opportunity to go to school."The Christian Democratic Appeal party's minister Piet Hein Donner said, "Not everything for which you call on religious freedom, you can also do. This freedom must be limited in the public interest." ((nl))Dutch language: ‍Niet alles waarvoor je je op godsdienstvrijheid beroept, mag je ook maar doen. Deze vrijheid moet kunnen worden beperkt in het algemeen belang. Independent Senate's senator Henk ten Hoeve said, "This law will not change very much in practice, but gives a message that this form of Islam in our society actually does not fit, because it disrupts it." ((nl))Dutch language: ‍Deze wet zal in de praktijk niet heel veel veranderen, maar geeft toch als boodschap dat deze vorm van de islam in onze maatschappij eigenlijk niet past, omdat hij daar ontregelend werkt.The Netherlands is a secular country, and according to reports, the number of Muslim women wearing a burqa or a niqab is between 200 to 400. Previously, the Danish parliament voted in favour of a similar face veil ban in May; it is scheduled to come under effect on August 1. France and Belgium had also introduced such bans.Yesterday the Dutch Defence Ministry said a Dutch sergeant, whose identity was not disclosed, may have gone to Syria from the Netherlands because he wanted to join extremist militant group ISIS. Prosecutors are investigating the sergeant.Jeanie Hennis Plasschaer, Dutch Defence Minister, called the act of leaving one's country to join ISIS "irresponsible" and "punishable". "Every case of radicalisation is one too many. It is disappointing if it appears that someone joins evil while colleagues risk their lives for the freedom of another."The United Nations has imposed sanctions on ISIS under a resolution covering people and organisations associated with Al-Qaida.The United States leads an international coalition against ISIS. The Netherlands, which has agreed to send six fighter jets to fight ISIS, is a part of the coalition.Dvdrs.net, a usenet search engine targeted by the Motion Pictures Association of America (MPAA) in its recent anti-piracy campaign, has closed while the site is restructured. Part of the restructuring will be the deletion of its usenet index.In a statement posted on dvdrs.net just days before its disappearance, Descds, a site administrator, said, "The site will be closed for restructure. All reference to Usenet will be removed, the logo adapted (its a long time coming anyway) and NZB indexing sections dropped."Descds reports that he is unhappy about Dvdrs.net being seen as a piracy network, as it has been since news of the MPAA's actions. "Since the PR press release broke we have been seen as an organized pirate network and this is unacceptable. In the first day of the press release we had 100 new members sign up looking for pirated movies. This has continued everyday since and we will not allow DVDRS to be used this way. We have not, will not and never shall host illegal files here," he said."We also understand that DVDRS will always be seen, in light of recent press, as a site that dealt in illegal file sharing. We feel there is no way we can recover from this and thus will re-launch Talk DVD with some of DVDRS database and ideas." Descds also stated that he hoped the MPAA could see that he was happy to work with the MPAA to reach a resolution, maintaining that he had done nothing wrong and that the site was far more than a usenet indexing site. "Indexing Usenet is still a part of the site granted, but we are now far more than that with in depth articles on DVD-R/W, DVD+R/W, DVD+R DL, DVDRAM, BLU-RAY and HD DVD media, software and hardware technology. We also have a healthy movie, game and hardware review section as well as active news. Our forums are also more about technology than Usenet," Descds said in his statement.Jurors in the US federal criminal trial of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev found him guilty yesterday of all 30 charges for the bombing of the Boston Marathon which occurred on April 15, 2013. The bombings killed three people and injured a further 264 people. Tsarnaev was also found guilty of shooting dead Sean Collier, an MIT police officer. The jury took eleven hours across two days to find Tsarnaev guilty.During the fifteen days of the trial, the prosecutors called 92 witnesses to testify as to the chaotic scenes following the bombing. The father of Martin Richard, an eight-year-old boy killed in the bombing, said he had to make the difficult choice to leave his wounded son to die so he could get help for his six-year-old daughter whose leg had been destroyed in the blast. Footage presented in court showed Tsarnaev placing a backpack containing the bomb close to the location of Martin Richard.Tsarnaev was represented by Judy Clarke, a death penalty specialist who previously represented Ted Kaczynski, the "Unabomber". The defence focused on averting the death penalty, and called only four witnesses, seeking to present Tsarnaev's older brother Tamerlan as the guiding force in the attack. They said that Tamerlan searched online for terms like "detonator" and that while Tamerlan's fingerprints were found on the bombs, Dzhokhar's were not.Though Massachusetts does not have the death penalty, as the case is being heard in federal court the prosecutors are able to seek the death penalty. The second phase of the trial is to decide whether or not Tsarnaev will be executed or sentenced to life in prison.RFID chips, the major component of e-passports, emit radio signals that can be read at a short distance by an electronic reader. Lukas Grunwald and Christian Bottger realised that they could clone an identical and undetectable e-passport. They downloaded the data from their own passport using an RFID reader (available from eBay) and then onto a blank chip thanks to a software they have developed, called RFdump. Doing so, they were able to clone an e-passport in less than five minutes. Ironically, a spokesman from the UK Home Office said: A European Union funded network of IT security experts has come out against the e-passport scheme. The experts said that it is not too late to roll back and rethink the ePassport.Wikinews previously reported that Turkey, where there seems to be no discussion about the controversies surrounding RFID chips, is switching to e-passports towards the middle of next year.A 19-year-old man has been killed and a 22-year-old man seriously injured as the result of a double shooting incident in Lower Clapton, a district in the east of the British capital London. The Metropolitan Police (MPS) reported the incident taking place on Hindrey Road in Lower Clapton at 2020 UTC Saturday.Police have not formally identified the younger victim but believe he was Joseph Burke-Monerville. The identity of the older victim has not been reported.Another 19-year-old man was sitting in a parked car with the two victims at the time of the incident. He was uninjured.After both victims were hospitalised, Burke-Monerville died a few hours after. A post-mortem is expected. According to police the 22-year-old's condition in hospital is stable though serious.The MPS, which is appealing for eyewitnesses to the incident, has yet to arrest any suspects and said it does not know what motivated the shootings. A spokesperson for the police said: "At this very early stage we must retain an open mind regarding the circumstances of the incident and any motive."Operation Trident detectives understand two persons were sighted running from the crime scene towards the neighbouring Pembury Estate and are now searching for them. One is described as having light skin similar to that of a Turkish or Asian person and the other suspect is said to be black.Citing violations of its policy regarding "Marine mammal items", eBay terminated an online listing on Monday by the town of Cape St. George, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada, for a 40 ft (12 m) sperm whale carcass reportedly beached upon its shores about a week prior.With an initial asking price of 99 cents, bidding for the carcass reportedly rose to C$238.03 within 15 bids. Reports variously state the final price of the whale, prior to the removal of the listing from the auction site on Monday at about 2:30pm, was C$2,025 or C$2,075. Listed in eBay's "really weird" category, the carcass was considered by eBay to be an example of "items made from marine mammals regardless of when the product was made", which are prohibited as per site rules.Following a council meeting on Sunday in the town of 950 residents, Cape St. George's mayor, Peter Fenwick, put the whale up on the auction site in a bid to have it removed from the town's premises, citing a lack of cooperation from provincial and federal government officials on the matter. "It's your problem, you solve it", Fenwick recounted to The Globe and Mail (TGaM) as the response he received from them. Apart from eBay, Kijiji was also suggested as another avenue by which to sell the carcass.Fenwick told CTV News, several years prior another sperm whale measuring 15 ft was beached in the area, but disappeared without incident, an act Fenwick attributed to be the work of Fisheries and Oceans Canada. "This time", he remarked, "the authorities have told us that it's our whale, it's our responsibility to get rid of it."On putting the carcass for sale, Fenwick remarked, "We knew we had to do something with it and this seemed to be the least expensive way of disposing of it." In a news release, Fenwick highlighted a possible use for the carcass, particularly its bones. "The 40 foot sperm whale will make a spectacular exhibit once the fat and muscle is removed, and the town is asking museums and other organizations that could use a whale skeleton to contact the town for further details." On retaining the whale himself, Fenwick stated, "As a town we would dearly love to keep the whale and put it on exhibit in the town but the cost of such a venture would be hard to justify." Fenwick told TGaM the whale was "in half decent shape". "This one looks like it died very recently and hasn’t decomposed much", which Fenwick suggested elsewhere was due to the whale's present location, partially submerged in near-freezing water. However, Fenwick noted its close proximity to a residential area, saying homeowners who lived there were "very interested in seeing the whale gone."eBay was not the only organization who barred the sale from taking place. "We also got threatened by the federal department of the environment, and told to pull the ad off or they would prosecute us", said Fenwick on the opposition he said he received from Environment Canada, which viewed the sale as contravening a federal act designed to protect endangered species. "I received a call from the federal department of the environment saying that you're not allowed to sell any parts of sperm whales, even if they’re dead." he added. "So I said, 'Oh that's very good, I’m glad to hear that, now can you send somebody over here to get rid of it for us?'" Fenwick's request was met with a negative response from Environment Canada."They've got to sort it out somehow. The uncertainty means it just sort of sits there and rots." Once decomposition sets in, Fenwick remarked the carcass would become a "real nuisance". "I don't know if you've ever seen a whale that’s been rotting on the beach for a couple of months — actually sometimes you can’t see it for the clouds of flies around it — but you can smell it for about a mile", he added.On finding alternate means to dispose of the carcass, Wayne Ledwell, a member of Newfoundland's Whale Release and Strandings, suggested the whale be towed out to a remote area. "They need to do that right away, when they come in and they’re fresh," said Ledwell. "No one wants to go touch them ... everything becomes gooey and slippery and you can't stand up on the whale and it gets on your boots and you can’t get the smell off and then you go home and the dog rolls in it and you get it in your kitchen and you curse the whales, and you curse the government and ... it becomes a mess." Fenwick said they'd considered the idea, enlisting a local fisherman who, however, judged his engine too small for the job. Previously, blue whale carcasses washed ashore in the towns of Trout River and Rocky Harbour, located about 150 km further north, and were taken by Royal Ontario Museum for preservation of the skeletons.  Fenwick suggested the sperm whale carcass in his town might also meet a similar fate, as the sperm whale's status as the largest toothed whale might prove to be a drawing attraction for such a facility.Regarding what he plans to do next with the carcass, Fenwick said "If we're not allowed to sell it, we're willing to drop our 99 cent price down to a zero." He said he hoped some eBay bidder stays interested in the whale. "We'll be glad to talk to them about giving them the whale. We’re hoping that's not illegal." He also said he hoped the publicity from the town's predicament, which garnered national attention, and its unusual means of finding a solution, would draw in someone interested in taking the whale off his hands at their own expense. Should the whale fall under new ownership, Fenwick advised it be moved away from the town to a beach devoid of people, and the blubber left as food for seagulls, insects, and other predators. He estimated "It'll probably take a year or so to get down to the skeleton." As monetary gain was reportedly not what the town cared about, Fenwick was willing to offer the carcass for free, though one report noted money raised from the listing could have gone towards the building of a skate park.The listing on eBay, as put up by Fenwick, read:Eight inmates at a maximum security prison in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada are hospitalized after a conflict broke out on Tuesday, July 1, 2008. Police state that there are at least eight who were stabbed, all of them are in their 20s, and one of the injured was also shot.Violence began at about 3:00 pm MDT (21:00 UTC), when fifty inmates went out to a fenced yard for a recreational period at Edmonton Institution. Fighting quickly broke out between gangs when inmates attacked a group. Prison officers fired warning shots but they did not deter the fighting and an inmate was shot. Security eventually was able to remove the eight injured and have paramedics transport them to Royal Alexandra Hospital and University of Alberta Hospital by ground and air ambulance. Six are in stable condition, but two are in critical condition. Kevin Grabowsky, region president of the prison officer's union said, "The incident, I think, was very much a surprise to one of the gangs involved in this fight."When the fighting ceased after the wounded were transported to the hospital, about 40 of the other remaining inmates stayed in the yard and refused to return to their cells. Negotiators tried to rectify the situation, but the prisoners' demands are not clear. Between 10:00-11:00 pm MDT, a fire was started by the inmates in the yard. Soon, officers equipped with riot gear entered the yard and cornered the inmates with tear gas. Fire rescue crews eventually doused the fire by 11:35 pm.Edmonton Institute is a maximum security correctional facility located in Edmonton, Alberta and houses over 200 inmates. There is high tension between gangs in the prison, which was locked down during the situation.Authorities have recovered some of the weapons, and are investigating the incident.Norwegian Police have said that the stolen Edvard Munch's The Scream and Madonna masterpiece paintings which were stolen by art thieves have been found.According to officers, the two paintings were recovered in "police action". "We are 100% certain they are the originals. The damage was much less than feared," police said. In a press conference in Oslo, Norway, police chief Iver Stensrud said: "For two years and nine days we have been hunting systematically for these pictures and now we've found them." He also added that police suspect the paintings had remained in Norway since they were taken. "We feel we have been hot on the trail of the paintings the whole time, but it has taken time," he said. They were stolen by art thieves in August 2004 from the Munch Museum in Oslo. Bjoern Hoen, 37, Petter Tharaldsen, 37, and Petter Rosenvinge, 34, were found guilty of stealing the paintings after a trial this May.  The Scream was completed in 1893. It is regarded by many as being one of Munch's most important pieces of work, and is his most recognizable piece amongst the general public. David Toska, the alleged mastermind of the "NOKAS robbery" was rumoured to have known the whereabouts of the paintings, and they may now have been recovered as a result of some sort of collaboration between him and Norwegian prosecutors. This might result in an improvement of Toska's public image (he's currently sentenced to 20+ years of prison time, after planning and executing a huge bank heist that led to the unfortunate death of a highly respected police officer.).Edward Snowden, a US National Security Agency (NSA) whistle-blower who has been in exile since 2013, would like to return to the United States providing he is guaranteed a "fair and impartial trial", said Anatoly Kucherena, his Russian lawyer, yesterday.The US Attorney General has promised Snowden he will not be executed if he is convicted under the Espionage Act, however, Kucherena says, he has not been promised the fair trial he seeks. Kucherena also said the US Attorney General does not have legal power to enforce the promise of no execution. Reportedly, "fair", to Snowden's lawyers, requires he would not be tried under the Espionage Act. Snowden has been on the run since leaking classified information regarding the NSA's mass electronic surveillance of the US population to the mainstream media.Upon returning to the US, Snowden would still have to face trial on two counts of theft of government property. If he were found guilty on both counts he would serve an up to 30-year prison sentence.Spokesman for the US Justice Department Marc Raimondi, in remarks to Reuters, reiterated the position of the US on the case, saying, "Snowden is not a whistle-blower. He is accused of leaking classified information and there is no question his actions have inflicted serious harms on our national security". Kucherena said he is working alongside lawyers from both Germany and the US in order to ensure that a fair trial can be negotiated.Egypt intends to launch an international initiative to fight misuse of the internet. This statement was made by Egypt's Deputy Foreign Minister for Legal Affairs Abdel Aziz Seif el-Nasr. The idea lies in implementing a long-term international cooperation plan that concerns suppressing the activity of criminals and other groups that use World Wide Web for promoting their interests.Abdel Aziz Seif el-Nasr stated that soon Egypt will take necessary steps to present the idea on the international arena. He also outlined the fact that the plan for fighting cyber-crime stipulates the introduction of new rules for Internet users.Egyptian authorities reopened the Rafah crossing between Egypt and the Gaza Strip on Saturday, allowing Palestinians unrestricted access out of the Strip for the first time since June 2007.The opening of the crossing was one of the conditions of a peace agreement that Egypt and Palestinian political groups Hamas and Fatah agreed to last month. Under the new crossing rules, all Palestinian citizens except men between the ages of eighteen and forty will be able to pass through the border unrestricted, while men in that age range will have to possess a visa in order to enter Egypt.  All people crossing the border are also required to have a Palestinian ID card. The crossing will be open daily except Fridays and holidays from 0900 to 2100 local time.The last time there was an open crossing between the Gaza Strip and Egypt was prior to June 2007, when Hamas gained control of Gaza, and Egypt and Israel closed their borders in response. Since then, only about 300 people have been allowed through the Egyptian border each day, usually those in need of medical facilities and students.The crossing will allow only people through; no commercial traffic will be permitted and everyone who passes through will be searched.Israel has raised concerns about the opening of the border, claiming that weapons will be smuggled through. The country's vice prime minister, Silvan Shalom said that the opening of the border "is a dangerous development that could lead to weapons and al-Qaida smuggling in Gaza."A spokesperson from Hamas called the opening of the crossing "a courageous and responsible decision which falls in line with Palestinian and Egyptian public opinion." He said that Hamas hopes "it is a step towards the complete lifting of the siege on Gaza."An Egyptian government spokesperson, Menha Bakhoum, said that the decision to open the crossing was made in order to "ease the suffering of the Palestinian people in the Gaza Strip."The president of Egypt has suffered a "devastating blow" after the country's army announced they would not use force against their own people, who continue to protest against the government tonight. The news came hours after six journalists who reported on the protests were released from custody.Hosni Mubarak yesterday announced a new cabinet, which does not include several figures who protesters largely do not approve of. Analysts have, however, suggested little had changed within the government; many positions, they say, are filled with military figures.Egyptian businessman Hisham Talaat Moustafa, chairman of the construction and real estate firm Talaat Moustafa Group and a member of parliament for the ruling National Democratic Party, and former policeman Mohseen Al Sukkari have been convicted of murdering Lebanese pop star Suzanne Tamim.The prosecution alleged that Mustafa, who had an affair with Tamim, paid Al Sukkari US$2 million to kill her. The woman was found dead in her Dubai apartment last July. Her throat was slit and she had suffered other stab wounds.Moustafa's lawyer had told reporters that his client was in love with Tamim, but was unable to take her a second wife — a common and legal practise in Egypt — due to objections from his family. The prosecution alleges he had Tamim killed as "means of taking revenge," though exactly what for was not specified.The pair's defense had been that evidence collected in the United Arab Emirates could have been tampered with and should not be used against them. The case was tried in Cairo due to the fact the arrests occurred in Egypt and took 27 hearings to reach a conviction.Moustafa was stripped of parliamentary immunity after his September arrest and has been in jail since during his trial. He has stood down from his position within the Talaat Moustafa Group and his brother Tarek Talaat Moustafa now heads the company, which was founded by their father Talaat Moustafa.The court has given both defendants a death sentence, which usually means hanging under Islamic law. This will now be reviewed by the nation's top religious authority, Grand Mufti Ali Gomaa, on June 25. Moustafa is intending to file an appeal, which his lawyer described as having "a one million percent guarantee" of getting the conviction overturned.Three journalists from the Qatar-based Al-Jazeera television news network have been sentenced to seven years in jail by a court in Cairo today for spreading false news and helping the Muslim Brotherhood group which are now banned as terrorists. The three journalists — the Australian correspondent Peter Greste, Canadian-Egyptian journalist and Cairo bureau chief for Al-Jazeera Mohamed Fahmy, and Baher Mohamed, an Egyptian producer— were convicted alongside others tried in absentia.Baher Mohamed was sentenced to three years on a second charge for possessing weapons.Al Antsey, the managing director for Al Jazeera English said of the judgment: "Today three colleagues and friends were sentenced, and will continue behind bars for doing a brilliant job of being great journalists.  'Guilty' of covering stories with great skill and integrity.  'Guilty' of defending people’s right to know what is going on in their world.""Peter, Mohamed, and Baher and six of our other colleagues were sentenced despite the fact that not a shred of evidence was found to support the extraordinary and false charges against them.  At no point during the long drawn out 'trial' did the absurd allegations stand up to scrutiny.  There were many moments during the hearings where in any other court of law, the trial would be thrown out.  There were numerous irregularities in addition to the lack of evidence to stand up the ill-conceived allegations."Julie Bishop, the Australian Foreign Minister, said she was "bitterly disappointed" by the decision.Raouf Amin el-Araby, a 52-year-old Egyptian doctor who has been serving the Saudi Royal family for 20 years, was convicted of malpractice. Egyptian newspapers reported that he was accused of driving a Saudi princess "to addiction", reportedly after treating a Saudi princess with painkillers.Initially sentenced to 7 years and 700 lashes, he has been sentenced to 15 years and 1500 lashes, 70 a week, after making an appeal. Family members, friends and colleagues gathered in outrage and grief outside the headquarters of Egypt's doctors union, calling upon King Abdullah to pardon Raouf.  "1,500 lashes is unprecedented in the history of Islam," read one banner carried by protesters. "Who is responsible for the humiliation of our doctors abroad?" read another.The Egyptian Organization for Human Rights (EOHR) and the foreign minister are working hard to find a way to return Raouf home quickly.  Hafez Abu Saeda, the director of EOHR, stated that the princess was prescribed the same medication that she was receiving in the United States, "so it is obvious that the doctor was not at fault for her addiction."Abu Saeda was astonished that the judge doubled the sentence and the lashes after the appeal. It is tantamount, he said, to penalizing Amin for asserting his right of appeal. "When you appeal against a sentencing it is the rule that it cannot go higher, but in Saudi Arabia it appears anything is possible," said Saeda.Protests in Egypt have driven the Egyptian foreign ministry to seek a solution, partly out of concern that negative repercussions may damage relations between Cairo and Riyadh.A human rights lawyer said that he was given the first 70 lashes last week and he will get 70 more this week.Egypt's ruling military council has appointed a committee to amend the Egyptian constitution.  The committee held its first meeting Tuesday with the president of the military council.  The committee is to complete its work within ten days, with a referendum on the amended constitution to take place within two months.The committee has eight members, mostly constitutional law experts.  The head of the committee is Tareq El-Beshry, a respected retired judge noted for his independent positions.  Another member is lawyer Sobhi Saleh, a senior member of the Muslim Brotherhood, which is the largest opposition group in Egypt although officially illegal.The Muslim Brotherhood has never been classified as a terrorist organization by the United States government, but some people in the US see it as a radical religious group.  The Brotherhood has officially said it "envisions the establishment of a democratic, civil state that draws on universal measures of freedom and justice, with central Islamic values serving all Egyptians regardless of colour, creed, political trend or religion".  The Brotherhood announced Tuesday it will apply for political party status, but will not field a candidate for president in elections to replace former President Hosni Mubarak as that might be divisive.  "It's time for solidarity, it's time for unity, in my opinion we need a national consensus", said a Brotherhood senior leader, Essam el-Arian.Amr El-Chobaki, of Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, remarked about the appointment of a Brotherhood member to the committee, "I could have been concerned if there were no other [political] currents represented in the committee, which is not the case ... The Brotherhood is an existing [political] current and it is normal that it is represented [in such a committee]".Hosni Mubarak gave control of the country to the military when he stepped down on Friday after three decades of rule.  Mubarak had amended the constitution while in power, to consolidate his position, including various measures affecting parliamentary elections.  On Sunday, the ruling military council dissolved both houses of parliament and suspended the constitution.According to Atef El-Banna, a member of the current amending committee and professor of constitutional law at Cairo University, an entirely new constitution would not be practical at this time.  "A new constitution requires a committee elected by the people to put it", El-Banna said.Egyptian politician Mohamed ElBaradei said that ousted President Hosni Mubarak must stand trial. His statement follows the recent ratification by Egyptian Foreign Minister Nabil El Araby of a statute that ensures Egypt will join the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court (ICC). If ElBaradei assumes power in the coming October/November 2011 elections, Mubarak and other former high-ranking corrupt Egyptian officials could potentially be tried in The Hague.In an interview with the Islam Times, ElBaradei cited reasons as to why the trial of Hosni Mubarak will be necessary to undertake if he chooses to run for Egypt's top job. "Mubarak allegedly issued the order to shoot at the protesters. [That should] have been reason enough to arrest him immediately...The Military Council has no other option than to try Mubarak and bring everyone else to justice who is responsible for human rights violations or corruption," he said.ElBaradei's previous statement to CNN during the 2011 Egyptian Revolution which began on the 25th of January, according to The Jerusalem Post, was that a trial was unnecessary and that what primarily needed to be done was for Mubarak to hand back money, speculated to be as much as $70 billion, which Mubarak illegally took over the course of his 30 year reign and now owes to the Egyptian people in order for economic progress to emerge.ElBaradei has stated he believes Egypt should be run by 'institutions' rather than 'individuals' and has said, "I want to come up with a renaissance project for Egypt and not an electoral program for ElBaradei".An Egyptian teacher who kicked a schoolboy to death after he failed to complete his homework has been given a six year prison sentence for manslaughter.Islam Amr Badr, the schoolboy, died in a hospital in Alexandria with four broken ribs, according to testimony heard by the court.In response to these allegations, Haitham Nabeel Abdelhamid, the convicted teacher, stated that he was not intending to hurt the child, he was merely intending to discipline him.The lawyer for Abdelhamid also defended his client's actions. He stated that "Hitting [children] is not banned in schools and my client did not break the law."The Egyptian government has announced new measures and  released statements regarding corporal punishment's eradication in response to this case. Amr Badr Ibrahim, the father of the schoolboy killed, has called for more people than just the teacher to be blamed for the death. "The problem is the teaching and the teachers because they cannot find good teachers," he claimed. "The minister of education should be the first person to be accused - how can he agree to let such a young man teach children?"In a referendum held Saturday, Egyptians  voted overwhelmingly to amend the nation's constitution immediately, moving  Egypt closer to a democracy, according to results announced today.    Electoral officials said 77% of voters endorsed  a set of constitutional amendments that included  limiting presidential terms, removing limitations on forming political parties, and holding  a general election within six months.Many of the mostly secular protest leaders who headed the revolution leading to President Hosni Mubarak's resignation were opposed to the amendments, not wanting to hold elections so quickly. Mohamed ElBaradei, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, said the nation needed more political maturity before holding elections so soon. Leaders of Egypt's Coptic Orthodox Church also were against the amendments.The Muslim Brotherhood, an Islamist group previously banned under Mubarak's rule, and the National Democratic Party, Mubarak's ruling party, were almost alone in supporting the amendments. Each hoped that its strong organization would give it an advantage in electing the parliament members who will write the new constitution.Approximately 18 million people, 41% of those eligible, voted, according to electoral officials. This is in contrast to parliamentary elections held four months ago, when the turnout was only six million.Although there were some problems at the voting places, observers said these were mostly due to the military's hasty preparations, not wrongdoing by officials. Opposition leader Mohammed ElBaradei was prevented from voting by men throwing stones in the worst incidence of sporadic violence.The results were met with jubilation by Egyptians; in Cairo, horns were honked and fireworks set off. The elections are considered the first in decades not rigged in favor of one party."It's not important what the result is, it's important that it was fair," said a revolutionary leader, Abdul Rahman Yusuf.Mohammed Essam Ghoneim el-Attar, an Egyptian-Canadian, was sentenced in an Egyptian court to 15 years in prison after being convicted of spying for Israel's intelligence agency, Mossad. In its ruling, the court stated: "He let himself be seduced by Satan, disregarding his country's values and selling himself and his country to the devil." Israel has dismissed the veracity of the case. Mark Regev, a spokesperson for Israel's foreign ministry called the case "a pity".El-Attar was arrested in January of this year while traveling in Egypt. He has been on trial in Cairo since February 24. Egyptian prosecutors said he began spying for Israel in 2001 when he was living in Turkey. They allege that he used his position at a Canadian bank to spy on Egyptians and Arabs in Turkey and Canada and was paid $56,000 to do so. No appeal will be allowed; the conviction can only be overturned by Egypt's President.The main evidence used against him was a confession that el-Attar signed after spending three weeks in detention, without access to legal counsel. El-Attar claims that the confession was extracted by torture. He said that authorities gave him electric shocks and forced him to drink his urine. Ibrahim Bassiouni, the defendant's Egyptian lawyer, told the newsmedia that there was "no concrete evidence against the defendant."Officials from the Canadian Embassy who were at the trial, witnessed the sentencing and will review the verdict.Tourists were evacuated from Paris' Eiffel Tower just before 4:00pm (1800 GMT) yesterday following a threatening phone call. Security forces covered the area after the phone call was received and the Eiffel Tower was reopened about an hour and half later after the threats were dismissed.Threats and evacuations are a recurring problem for Paris’ famous landmark and marks the fourth evacuation for 2013. On August 9 and March 31, the monument was closed due similar circumstances after Police responded to bomb alerts. On June 18, the attraction was closed when a man threatened to throw himself off the edge of the tower.Police have not given any further information regarding the evacuation. 32,000 tourists visit the Eiffel Tower every day making it the most visited monument in the world.Eight children were taken to hospital on Friday after being struck by a car in Suffolk, England. 20 schoolchildren were out on an educational trip through the village of Worlingham in Suffolk, England at roughly 14:00 BST with a teacher and an assistant to supervise. They were being introduced to the local area  when a driver lost control of a Nissan Note and ploughed into the group of children, who were eight and nine years old. The accident occurred near a church where a funeral was taking place. Eight pupils had to be taken to hospital. Two of the victims were transported from the crash scene by air-ambulance. Another person suffered from two broken legs. The teacher was also injured. One girl is thought to have a broken pelvis.A spokeswoman for the paramedics said that three of the badly hurt children "went under the wheels of the car". A 21-year-old man was also hurt. He was on his way to the funeral, which was for a person who had died in a road traffic accident. Mike Croft, who is the principal of Worlingham Middle School, said: "You could not think of anything worse than finding children like that. It's not a day I want to repeat. When I got there, there was mayhem. It looked awful. Parents were informed as quickly as possible. Counsellors were called to the scene and subsequently attended the school."Andreas Djiakouris, supervisor of the paramedics, stated: "Every single one of our crews who were at the scene had their hands full from the minute they got there to the minute they left."  Three children are said to have been critically injured.It is thought that the Nissan driver hit the group of pedestrians while trying to avoid other parked cars. A 40-year-old woman has been arrested on suspicion of dangerous driving.Jennifer San Marco allegedly shot and killed herself, as well as an ex-neighbor and six postal workers at the Santa Barbara Processing and Distribution Center in Goleta, California says Santa Barbara County Sheriffs department. Authorities say that Marco believed that she was threatened by a conspiracy among the workers at the facility.Sheriff Sergeant Erik Raney has said that Marco apparently left writings in her New Mexico desert home "alluding to a vague plot involving the mail-sorting plant, a local medical facility and the Santa Barbara County Sheriff's Department. She obviously felt that the post office was out to get her in one way or another," he said. "That establishes as good of a motive (for the killings) as we can determine at this point."Raney said that the writings were described to him as "ramblings," but Raney says, "they alluded to a conspiracy."In her home, investigators also found a check payable to 'cash' with the notation "will," which could indicate that Marco left a will, "and that may shed more light on what's happened here," said Raney.Marco has a history of mental illness, but was still able to purchase a firearm and ammunition from Ace Pawn and Antiques, owned by Paul Castillo.Castillo said, "she (Marco) bought the gun for $325.00 without saying why she needed the weapon. She filled out an application for a background check, which didn't turn up any problems, and picked up the gun two days later."At least eight people have been killed in the Russian province of Dagestan after an ambush by rebels, according to reports. The incident occurred in the Sergokalinsky district last night about 80 kilometres (50 miles) south of Dagestan's capital, Makhachkala, when workers were being dispatched to fix a cell phone tower owned by the "Beeline" (Билайн) telecommunications company. The tower had earlier been damaged by bomb blasts by rebels. When driving up to the tower, the convoy of workers, accompanied by police officers, came under fire. "According to preliminary information, an attack was made on a car with policemen. Eight people in the vehicle were killed. Other passengers received injuries or concussions," said a source with the security force of the Sergokalinsky district.The Dagestan province frequently sees violence, blamed on gangs and separatists supposedly inspired by rebels in neighbouring Chechnya.Last night a suicide bomber killed 8 people and wounded 19 others according to Algerian public radio. A van full of explosives was driven near a police building building and detonated. The bombing happened at a beach called Zemmouri el-Bahri. A police officer reportedly fired at the vehicle causing it to explode prior to impact with the building. According to Yazid Zerhouni, the Minister of the Interior of Algeria stated that attacks happened around 10:00pm (GMT). Press TV stated that Al-Qaeda's wing in North Africa claimed responsibility. The same wing of Al-Qaeda also claimed responsibility for another suicide car bombing that occurred on August 3, killing or injuring 20 people.Four adults, three teens and a child—both men and women—were murdered on Tuesday morning in a mass shooting in  Appomattox, Virginia. According to police sources, three of the bodies were found inside a home, and the other four directly outside it.Later in the day, civilians came upon an eighth victim in serious condition on the side of a road—which led to police being called. However, the man died en route to the hospital. Soon after, authorities identified the alleged shooter as Christopher Speight, aged 39, whom state and local police working in conjunction with the National Guard had surrounded in nearby woods. The rural area was under an almost complete lock down as a perimeter was established that included hundreds of law enforcement officers and soldiers patrolling the area for the suspect. While being pursued, Speight is said to have fired multiple high-powered rounds at a state helicopter. Although there were no reported injuries, the bullets did rupture the fuel tank forcing it to land. After an entire night of playing cat and mouse games with police, Christopher Speight surrendered to police of his own volition early Wednesday morning unarmed but wearing a bulletproof vest. Following this, police searched his Appomattox residence where they discovered several explosive devices on the premises. In a statement to the media, Tom Molinar of Virginia State Police said that bomb technicians and canine units were on the scene. He went on to say that the situation was now under complete control, and that the proper authorities were safely detonating said devices as he spoke. Christopher Speight is currently being housed in a local jail until charges are officially filed. The Appomattox Sheriff said that although motives for Speight's action are for now unknown, it is believed that he acted alone.Eight men and five Brookyln-based  Spinka charitable organizations have been charged with tax fraud and money laundering.  Six have been arrested, and two are still at large.The men charged are Naftali Tzi Weisz, 59, a Grand Rabbi from Brooklyn; Gabbai Moseh E. Zigelman, 60, also from Brooklyn and Weisz' assistant; Yaacov Zeivald, 43, of Valley Village; Yosef Nachum Naiman, 55, of Los Angeles; Alan Jay Friedman, 43, of Los Angeles; Joseph Roth, 66, an international accounts manager at a bank in Israel from Tel Aviv; diamond merchant Moshe Arie Lazar, 60; and Jacob Ivan Kantor, 71, an attorney from Tel Aviv.  The first six were arrested last Wednesday, and four of them have been released on bail.  The FBI believes Lazar to be in Israel.  Kantor is also believed to be in Israel according to other reports.The charitiable organizations named as defendants in the charges are Yeshiva Imrei Yosef, Yeshivath Spinka, Central Rabbinical Seminary, Machne Sva Rotzohn, and Mesivta Imrei Yosef Spinka.  The FBI alleges that these charities issued fraudulent receipts for bogus charitable contributions and were the beneficiaries of fees charged for transfers of funds as part of a money laundering conspiracy.By a 37-count grand jury indictment that was unsealed on Wednesday morning, Weisz and Zigelman are charged with one count of conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service and other crimes, 19 counts of mail fraud, one money laundering conspiracy count, 11 counts of international money laundering, and one count of operating an illegal money remitting business.  Zigelman is in addition charged with two counts of aiding in the preparation of fraudulent income tax returns.  Zeivald, Lazar, Naiman, and Friedman are charged in the main conspiracy count and with operating an illegal money remitting business.  Zeivald is in addition charged with one count of mail fraud.  Roth is charged in both conspiracy counts; several mail fraud counts; and several international money laundering counts.  Kantor is charged in both of the conspiracy counts and several international money laundering counts.The charges laid are that over a period of 10 years the conspirators solicited USD8.7 million in contributions to these charitable organizations, promising to secretly refund to the donors up to 95%, allowing the donors to claim the full amounts of the donations as tax deductions on their federal income tax returns.  According to the FBI, this was done in two ways:  Some donors received cash payments through an underground money transfer network involving Zeivald, Naiman, Friedman, and Lazar, some of whom operated businesses in and around the Los Angeles jewelry district.  Other donors were reimbursed via loans made from the United States branch of an Israeli bank, organized by Roth and Kantor and secured on funds secretly held in that bank in Israel, to which the donations had been sent via wire transfer.  Several of the Brooklyn charitable organizations are schools.  One such is Yeshiva Imrei Yosef, a private Orthodox Jewish school for boys in grades PK–12 with 312 students, which is one of 5000 such organizations approved for charitable donations by the Jewish Community Endowment Fund of the Jewish Community Federation of San Francisco.  The Jewish Journal of Greater Los Angeles draws a parallel between these charges and the creation of bogus schools in the case of New Square, quoting Jonathan Sarna, a professor of American Jewish history at Brandeis University, as saying "I think that in Eastern Europe, especially where corruption was rampant, it was very common for Jews to engage in, shall we say, 'extra-legal activities' when they believed they were doing so not for their personal gain but for the good of the community or for some higher purpose."   His observation is that defrauding a corrupt government is part of the culture that has sometimes been carried in to the United States, and that people justify it when they believe that the money is going towards Jewish education.  "I think the idea is that Jewish education is so important and so expensive and the folks say to themselves, 'we're forced to pay for public education which we don't use', and they manage to sometimes justify in their own minds these kinds of activities that are for the sake of a holy end."Sarna states that violating the law is not condoned by Jewish communities in the U.S., a sentiment that has been echoed in reactions from the Los Angeles Jewish community, such as that by Rabbi Meyer H. May, president of the Rabbinical Council of California: "One thing is clear: The Orthodox community deplores any attempt to defraud the government of the United States, and there is no excuse for it, and there's no rationalizations that are acceptable. [...] It's against the Torah and it's against our moral foundation. At the same time, regarding these specific individuals, they should be allowed to have a fair trial, as everyone is innocent until proven guilty."The FBI's press release contains a similar reminder of the presumption of innocence.Calls by the New York Times were unable to obtain any comments on the case from the defendants.At least eight people have been killed on Monday after a gunman entered a Carthage, North Carolina nursing home and opened fire on its residents.Local police reported that Robert Stewart, a 45-year-old man, entered the Pinelake health and rehabilitation centre, which gives care to Alzheimer's disease patients, and shot a nurse and seven patients to death. Six of the victims were killed at the scene. The others died later at a local hospital. The ages of the patients were between 78 and 98.The alleged gunman also wounded two other people, among them a visitor and a policeman, who confronted the gunman in a hallway and stopped the rampage. The suspect himself was injured before being arrested by police. His condition is currently not known."He [the policeman] acted in nothing short of a heroic way today, and but for his actions, we certainly could have had a worse tragedy. We had an officer, a well-trained officer, who performed his job the way he was supposed to and prevented this from getting even worse than it is now," said Maureen Krueger, the Moore County District Attorney."This is a small community built on faith, and faith will get us through," said Chris McKenzie, the Carthage police chief. "It's a horrible event in any size town, particularly, though, when you deal with a small town such as Carthage. It's hard. This is my home, my small town. I was born and raised here so I take it to heart a little bit. All you can do is move forward."The victims of the shooting have been identified. They are: Bessie Hendrick, 78; John Goldston, 78; Jessie Musser, 88; Tessie Gardner, 88; Lillian Dunn, 89; Margaret Johnston, 89; Louise Decker, 98; and Jerry Avent, the nurse.Carthage is located approximately sixty miles southwest of North Carolina's capital of Raleigh. According to the 2000 census, it has a population of 1,871. The Pinelake nursing home, where the attack occurred, contains 110 beds and has both short and long term patients.Saturday night, police in Houston, Texas, United States, discovered eight people killed in a home.  Six of the victims were children.Around 21:00 local time, Harris County Sheriff's Office (HSCO) deputies arrived at the home on a welfare check.  After repeatedly trying to get someone to come to the door, officers forced their way into the house.  Here, police say, they were met by gunfire and a standoff ensued.  After upwards of an hour, with the house surrounded by special police units, the suspect was talked out of the house.David Conley, 49, was arrested by the HSCO and subsequently charged with the crimes.  Reportedly Conley had a lengthy history of violent behavior that landed him in prison multiple times. His most recent stint behind bars came last month, when he was arrested for allegedly slamming his girlfriend's head into a refrigerator in the same home involved on Saturday. At the time of the murders, Conley was wanted on an assault charge against a family member.All eight victims died at the scene.On Sunday, authorities released the names and ages of the victims:  Valerie Jackson, 40, and Dwayne Jackson, her husband, 50; Nathaniel Jackson, 13; Honesty Jackson, 11; Dwayne Jackson, Jr., 10; Caleb Jackson, 9; Trinity Jackson, 7; and Jonah Jackson, 6.  Conley was the father of Nathaniel (Nate) Jackson.  Conley told investigators he used to live with Valerie Jackson and broke into the home after she had changed the locks."We're here today on a very sad day," said Tim Cannon, deputy chief of the HCSO. "We're here with our brothers in arms standing behind us because we're all hurting. It's a difficult day for us at the sheriff's office. Once again, a tragedy has struck…our city. Our hearts go out to those…affected by this tragedy."Tuesday, Conley was allowed to speak to reporters at an administrative segregation unit of the Harris County Jail.  Conley said he had been living in the house and although he had promised to move out, he did not have elsewhere to go.  He was angered when he returned to find the door locks changed.  Conley also felt all the victims disrespected and mistreated him.  Conley was asked about his son, Nate, by KPRC's Robert Arnold."I love Nate. I love Nate to death," Conley replied.  "Nate didn't give me any respect because of what his mother was doing to me[...] She was cheating on me."Saying his lawyer had instructed him not to speak about the events of Saturday inside the home, Conley did have the following to say about the Jackson children:"They were growing up to be monsters, they were disrespectful, rude in school. I'm not saying they're dead because of that. I'm not even saying I killed them."  Conley added, "God says in the Bible do not disrespect your mother and father or your days will be short, but I'm not saying that's what happened."Eight teens were shot Friday night outside a Gary, Indiana skating rink during a concert. According to Gary Police Cpl. Gabrielle King, "all chaos broke loose" when security asked patrons to leave after a fight broke out.The wounded ranged from 14 to 18 years of age and were taken to three local hospitals with gunshot wounds to the legs, wrist, stomach, and back. The injuries were not life-threatening. Cpl. King said that the wounded were not clear on the motive for the shooting and that no arrests have been made. The shooting happened at Skate World, in the Commons shopping center at 4415 West 5th Avenue.One victim said he was shot in the stomach by an African-American man holding a rifle, wearing a red hat and with dreadlocks. Two other victims said that security asked them to leave after a fight broke out. When they stepped outside, both were shot in the leg.Victoria Stafford, eight years old, was sighted leaving her Woodstock, Ontario school on Wednesday afternoon with an unknown woman caught on video camera.  She has not been seen since.Victoria (Tori) attended grade 3 at Oliver Stephens Public School, and the video is from the College Avenue secondary school as Victoria and the unidentified woman walked along Fyfe Avenue."I've had a lot of problems come up in my life and stuff like that, and I haven't always been there for my kids, but this is my baby girl and it's absolutely hurting now," her father Robert Stafford said, "It's killing me, [I want to] let her know that I love her and I'll see her soon. One way or another I'll see her soon."Police teams from Oxford, Waterloo and London have assembled together with rescue dogs and trained search and rescue personnel to find the child.Police have called the search a criminal investigation, but have not yet issued an Amber alert as there has been no report of an abduction.150 volunteers joined search efforts and to pass out flyers on the 10th. Police say they have no need of more volunteers at this time, however they would appreciate any tips or calls from anyone who may have seen either Victoria or the woman.  The unidentified woman seen in the video is described as between 19 and 25 years old with straight long black hair. She weighs about 120 to 125 pounds and was wearing a white coat and black jeans in the video. Victoria was wearing a green shirt with a black pleated skirt. She was wearing black and white shoes and carried a purple and pink Bratz purse. She had on a black Hannah Montana jacket which had a white fur lined hood."I think what's happening with members of the public is an expression of their emotions, their concern for this child. And I think that's good in terms of the willingness of this community to step up," said  Michael Harding, Mayor of Woodstock.Volunteers are making and handing out purple ribbons, Tori's favourite colour. A candlelight vigil will be held in the evening on Easter Sunday.Eighteen men, ranging in ages from young to elderly, whose bodies were found bound and blindfolded in a minibus in Baghdad, were hanged. "The medical report shows that all of them were hanged," a source at Baghdad's Yarmuk hospital said. "We found a rope round the neck of one of the victims."A security patrol discovered the minibus just before midnight on the road between the Amiriyah and Khadra districts. The victims, all men, had been handcuffed, blindfolded and either hanged or shot to death, police Lt. Maitham Abdul-Razzaq said.Police say they have no clues to the victims' identities. The bodies were found near the Amriya district of western Baghdad — one of the city's most dangerous sections, Abdul-Razzaq said.Official figures suggest an increase in such killings since the destruction of a major Shiite shrine in Samarra two weeks ago sparked reprisal attacks. Local people have accused the Shiite-led, US-backed government's police and other security forces of abducting and killing Sunni civilians.The dumping of bodies bearing signs of torture and killed execution-style has become a feature of Iraq's violence between armed factions. Meanwhile, the U.S. ambassador to Iraq Zalmay Khalilzad warned that the country is  vulnerable to rebels’ attempts to exploit the political situation caused by the shrine attack. "There is a concerted effort to provoke civil war," he said.Iraq's parliament is expected to sit on Sunday for the first time since the December elections.Leo Luna Mila, 35, a news anchorman and commentator of Radyo Natin, was gunned down Tuesday in San Roque, Northern Samar, Philippines. Mila was shot 12 times while leaving work. As publisher of the local magazine Peryodista and host of another radio program "Bungkaras" (Wake Up), he had been critical of the New People's Army's forced taxation. He had received threats through text messages last September.The Philippine Daily Inquirer reported that Mila is the 8th journalist killed in the Philippines this year and the 62nd since 2001, when President  Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo came to power. A total of 122 media people have been murdered since President Cory Aquino overthrew the Marcos dictatorship in 1986. Meanwhile, the Department of Justice's Undersecretary Ricardo Blancaflor, chairman of the "Task Force 211" - Against Political Violence and Extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances in the Philippines, announced that a probe team would be sent to Northern Samar. The Northern Samar provincial police office has also formed "Task Force Mila" to investigate the killing. Two local politicians, including San Roque Mayor Andre Avalon, have offered a P100,000 (US$2 067.80) bounty for any information leading to the capture of the suspects.Meanwhile, the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) said, "it is time for the central government, as well as local authorities, to promptly address the climate of impunity that is facilitating rising violence against Philippine journalists. Mila's murder is a reminder that police throughout the Philippines must respond immediately with investigations and protection when journalists are threatened for their work."Reports say that authorities in Brisbane, Australia have arrested an individual connected with the failed Glasgow and London bombings in the United Kingdom on June 29 and June 30. Australian media reports that the man was arrested at Brisbane International Airport yesterday at 11:00 p.m. AEST (UTC+10).The man has since be named as Mohammed Haneef and Australian Attorney-General Philip Ruddock says that Haneef is cooperating with authorities and has not been charged with any crime as of yet.Police in the U.K. confirm that the arrest has been made saying, "he remains in custody.""Yes there was an arrest last night but I will stress at no stage was there any threat to the Brisbane Airport," said Jim Carden, a spokesman for the airport.Mohammed Haneef is being described as a 27 year-old male who is a qualified medical doctor and reports say that he was leaving the airport and had a one-way ticket to Pakistan.Haneef is employed at the Gold Coast Hospital in Queensland. Haneef is not an Australian citizen. It is reported that Haneef is from India.A total of eight suspects have been arrested, six of which are doctors or studying to be doctors.The terror threat level in the UK remains critical, indicating that an attack could be expected imminently and high security is in evidence on mass transport routes, while the police continue their investigations.Earlier this morning, a controlled explosion took place on a suspicious package discovered outside Hammersmith Station on the London Underground system. The scare led to the closure of Hammersmith and Barons Court stations for one hour. Two other stations, Tower Hill and East Ham, were closed in similar circumstances. All four stations have now been reopened.Bodies of an elderly couple have been found in Barlows scrapyard in Uttoxeter, Staffordshire, United Kingdom. BBC reports the bodies were found on Friday night.A 29-year-old man was the only person at the scrapyard when police and ambulance crews arrived and has now been arrested as a suspect.The scene has been cordoned off by police."The bodies remain in situ and the scene has been cordoned off and a forensic examination has begun," a police spokesman said at 17:30 BST, "It is expected that post-mortem examinations will be carried out (Saturday)."An elderly man's body has been found floating in the water near Owhiro Bay quarry car park, by a man walking alone. The man who found the body immediately called the police. The body of the man, determined to be in his 60s, was found at 8:30 a.m. NZST.His body was found partially dressed and with both hands cut off at the wrists. The New Zealand Police report that there are signs that someone had tried to decapitate him.Harry Quinn, Detective Inspector said, "We need to know who this person is and from my point of view we do not know if the victim has been brought to the sea shore or if he has been placed out in the sea somewhere off the coast of Wellington."[1] Detectives, Wellington Police Maritime and the Police National Dive Squad, totalling more than 40 officers, are working on the case. They are searching for items and the two missing hands.The victim is European, in his 60s, grey hair, moderately built, between 175 and 180-centimetres tall and, when found, was wearing dark trousers and black leather shoes.The police have yet to determine the man's identity, or how long the body had been in the water.Police have yet to report how the man died.Police are seeking any information on this death. If you have any information, you can call the hot line: 0508 Redrocks (0508 733 762).Tuesday was a tumultuous day in the Khadr household as they desperately awaited to hear whether Abdullah, the Canadian family's oldest son, would be released on bail after nearly four years of detention awaiting trial in the United States for helping Afghan militants procure weapons. "We couldn't help but be a little hopeful," his older sister Zaynab remarked, though Khadr himself remained more optimistic and encouraged his family to use their second weekly visit to Toronto West Detention Centre later that day, as a sign of faith that the courts would soon reunite the fractured family. But when the family returned home from their second visit, there was a crushing message from his lawyers, "Abdullah didn't make bail". The family feels frustrated and says that the court's ruling that Khadr still represents a serious flight risk is unfair. "None of us have every tried to leave the country", Zaynab sighs, pointing to Abdullah's co-operation with Canadian authorities since the very beginning.Although his lawyers proposed a "stringent supervision plan" that would have seen the Ottawa-born Khadr living with his grandparents and fitted with an electronic ankle-bracelet to track his whereabouts, the ruling released late Tuesday confirmed that Mr. Justice Gary Trotter was not convinced that Khadr would remain in Canada if released back into the community.The ruling echoes a similar finding made in 2005, when Khadr first applied to be released pending the outcome of his extradition hearing to the United States, where he faces federal conspiracy charges. Khadr's lawyers appeared successful in allaying earlier concerns about the insufficient ankle bracelet that would have tracked Khadr's movements in 2005, bringing the owner of Trace Canada, Len Beagley, to testify that "tremendous developments" had been made since the courts last heard Khadr's plea for bail in 2005. However, Trotter seemed unconvinced that ankle-bracelets were an "accepted way of monitoring individuals", and agreed with Crown arguments that such devices required "co-operation from the subject".Fatmah and Mohammad Elsamnah again offered their $300,000 Toronto home as surety for Khadr's behaviour if released on bail. However, they were judged unacceptable guardians for their grandson, in part due to Mohammad's stuttered and confused responses to questions from the Crown, and his advanced memory loss.Khadr's lawyers chose to focus on the recent community support shown at Salaheddin Islamic Centre, where his family prays. In addition to adding $50,000 in collected donations as assurance that the community would keep a close eye on Khadr, the Board of Directors agreed to pay the costs associated with the most advanced system of monitoring ankle-bracelet for Khadr. The manager of the Islamic Centre also offered to employ the 27-year old Khadr, driving him to and from work each day. Crown lawyers Matthew Sullivan and Howard Piafsky challenged the mosque's credibility however, asking RCMP officer Tarek Mokdad to describe the number of worshippers who were later accused of militant action. Trotter dismissed claims that the mosque was tied to terrorism, but said the donations from worshippers were unacceptable since they gave the money without expecting to see it returned to them, regardless of Khadr's behaviour.The last to find out about his fate, Abdullah wasn't told the outcome of the hearing until he phoned his family Wednesday evening.The Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) is facing several lawsuits, including one filed by residents of San Bruno, California, after a gas line exploded in their neighborhood on September 10, completely destroying over 50 structures, 37 of them homes. In their lawsuit, residents claim that PG&E knew the pipeline was "defective" and was a "ticking time bomb". They further allege that the company was aware that the pipeline could fail, but did not act.The lawsuit was filed by at least five families who resided in the Glenview neighborhood of San Bruno. The Danko firm who is representing the residents say they expect to file at least a dozen more lawsuits against the company alleging they were liable and responsible for the explosion and the damages that occurred as a result of it. "This wasn't an accident. This was a foreseeable consequence of ignoring safety measures," one attorney representing the families said. It has also been reported that several other wrongful death lawsuits have been filed against PG&E. Three people were killed in the explosion.The explosion and subsequent fire was originally thought to have been a downed commercial aircraft. Live scanner communications at the time of the explosion had stated that fire departments from six different companies reported to the scene. Residents say that firefighters were not able to bring the blaze under control because the pipeline was active for at least 5 hours after the explosion.Residents filing the lawsuits are seeking damages and removal of the pipeline from the neighborhood. Jim Ruane, the mayor of San Bruno, backs residents in their request to PG&E to remove the pipeline from Glenview. "We want our neighborhood rebuilt, and we want our people back," he said. A PG&E spokesperson denied having officially received the lawsuits, but said: "We remain committed to our customers in San Bruno and will continue to be there to help rebuild the neighborhood."The California-based non-profit organization Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) filed a brief on Wednesday claiming that AT&T has been illegally forwarding Internet traffic directly to the National Security Agency.The EFF has asked that the forwarding be stopped immediately. According to EFF staff attorney Kevin Bankston, "The evidence that we are filing supports our claim that AT&T is diverting Internet traffic into the hands of the NSA wholesale, in violation of federal wiretapping laws and the Fourth Amendment. More than just threatening individuals' privacy, AT&T's apparent choice to give the government secret, direct access to millions of ordinary Americans' Internet communications is a threat to the Constitution itself. We are asking the Court to put a stop to it now."The motion was filed under seal allowing only the judge and litigants to view the complaint. The procedure allows AT&T five days to explain to the court their reasons for keeping the information from the public.In the class action lawsuit, EFF is representing all AT&T residential customers nationwide.The California-based non-profit organization Electronic Frontier Foundation, as well as the Attorney General of Texas, has filed a law suit against Sony Computer Entertainment of America for their controversial use of anti-piracy software.The EFF claims that the digital rights management software on the CDs BMG Music (a subsidiary of Sony) produces acts as spyware, which the EFF claims is against Texas law. The program, known as XCP, is said to install software on one's system when they insert the CD into their computer for purposes such as adding to iTunes music software.Sony currently rejects the idea of XCP technology being considered as spyware, however they have agreed to replace CDs with the software and to temporarily discontinue the installation of it on their CDs.Among the controversy that Sony's moves to counter piracy have raised is the accusation that their software leaves a machine more vulnerable to attacks across the Internet.  A trojan horse has already been found in the wild that utilizes one of the anti-piracy software's functions.Those arrested were, according to the US government, members of a spy ring that had existed for several years, involving Russian agents adopting civilian identities.  All are charged with acting as unlawful agents for Russia, which carries a sentence of a prison term up to five years.  Nine were charged with money laundering, a crime that carries a prison term of up to twenty years. According to the US government, the suspects had been trained by the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service to obtain information about US military policies, including those concerned with nuclear weapons, as well as intelligence about leadership at the CIA and the White House.The FBI said that to obtain those objectives, the suspects were instructed to live as American citizens under false names, some as married couples.  Some suspects were able to achieve ties with prominent US citizens, including a scientist working with nuclear weapons and a New York financier who had ties to officials within the US government.Communication with Russian authorities was allegedly via several disparate methods, including unique wireless internet connections or pictures posted on the Internet with hidden messages, as well as more traditional methods such as burying messages or swapping bags between agents.The Russian Foreign Ministry told the AFP that they are investigating the allegations, but say that "there are a lot of contradictions." No further comment has been made.Two individuals are in custody after eleven secondary school students were injured in a firearms incident near a school Auchinleck Academy, in East Ayrshire, Scotland, yesterday afternoon. Police have said they are carrying out "extensive enquiries" into the incident, which reportedly involved an air gun or BB gun.One pupil said he was walking near the school during the lunch hour and "saw two people behind a hedge."  There was a sound "like a small explosion," he said. "I wasn't really frightened at first but I'm quite shaken now as I know what damage has been done."Strathclyde Police said officers were attending an incident near the secondary school, which has approximately 950 students. Chief Superintendent John Thompson, who is leading the police inquiry into the incident, confirmed two people, aged 15 and 18, were detained in the area of the incident, in which eleven youths were injured."Subsequent inquiries directed us towards a house in Auchinleck where we have detained an 18-year-old male and a 15-year-old male," Thompson said. "Both of those individuals are being interviewed at present and our inquiries are ongoing." He appealed for people in the area of the incident to contact police.East Ayrshire council stated "[t]he school responded immediately, informing the police and parents of the children involved, and sought appropriate medical attention", and added officials were supporting pupils. Auchinleck Academy has not replied to a request for a comment from Wikinews.According to officials, at least eleven solders in the Philippines were killed and several others injured on Saturday after a gunfight with Communist rebels in Mindoro, a province south of the capital Manila. It was the deadliest incident between the two since the start of the year.Army officials commented that a platoon of Filipino soldiers accidentally entered the grounds of the New People's Army (NPA) rebel camp."The two sides exchanged fire a few meters apart," remarked army spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Noel Detoyato. "[...] The troops fought it out literally to the last bullet." He commented that the gunfight lasted for about three hours, that about sixty NPA rebels were involved in the clash, and that seven of the Filipino troops were injured.Another army spokesman, Colonel Romeo Brawner, noted that the troops were in the vicinity as part of security measures implemented for the elections in May, so that the candidates would be able to safely campaign.An eleven year-old boy has been arrested this morning on suspicion of attacking a four year-old boy in Hessle, East Yorkshire. The boy was arrested on suspicion of assault and has been bailed to mid-September pending further inquiries.Charlie Davis was left with a fractured skull after being battered with a brick. The incident happened on wasteland close to the child’s home before lunchtime on Thursday, and he was discovered by a couple who were out walking. He was in a puddle of blood and part of his ear was hanging off; doctors at Hull Royal Infirmary later performed surgery to repair it. Yesterday, a spokeswoman from Humberside Police said: “This little boy has suffered a nasty attack and has some horrible injuries.” Police say they haven’t been able to talk to Charlie about the attack, and they say that they are keeping an “open mind” about the attack. A police spokeswoman added: “Police hope to be able to take a statement and get a full account of the incident from the four-year-old victim some time today, so long as he's able to speak to us.”According to reports, the little boy was tied to a tree before being battered, but police said there was no evidence to verify such information.A Honda, with eleven-year-old Jose Covarrubias behind the wheel, ran a stop sign in Porterville, California colliding with a Ford around 7:30 P.M.The eastbound 1993 Honda was sideswiped from the driver's side by a southbound 1999 Ford, killing Jose.  His sister, 6-year-old Elizabeth Covarrubias, and mother, Maria Covarrubias, were killed when they ejected, as they were not wearing seatbelts.  Family  friend Froylon Gonzalez was sent to the hospital with serious injuries, and the driver of the Ford, Charles Seguin, sustained minor injuries.Felipe Gonzalez, Froylon's brother, said the family was returning from Jose's soccer team practice. He also added that he had never seen Jose drive before. Gonzales was the lone survivor of the Honda and has not yet been interviewed.The accident occurred at a rural intersection and it did not appear to law enforcement that drugs, alcohol, or weather were a factor in the collision.The bodies will be buried in Mexico near where the father lives.Thailand's Election Commission passed their subcommittee report on to the office of the Attorney-General without making a recommendation.  The report, which The Nation describes as all legal documents detailing the allegations that the caretaker Prime Minister's populist Thai Rak Thai party paid small parties to take part in the April 2 snap election.The EC subcommittee led by Nam Yimyaem concluded in their report that Thai Rak Thai had engaged smaller parties illegally in an effort to avoid the minimum voter requirement of the constitution.  The report's recommendation was that the party should be dissolved.The EC passing the buck on the election fraud allegations follows on from scathing criticism from the country's Supreme Court President, Charnchai Likit-jittha.  In a letter to the acting Senate Speaker, Charnchai rejected Speaker Suchon Chaleekrua's proposal that he nominate two new members to the Election Commission to fill present vacancies.  Citing the constitutional requirement that the EC be politically neutral, Charnchai said of the three remaining commissioners they, "are not in a position to have the trust to continue with their work".The troubles of the Election Commission may see doubt cast on the proposed date of October 15 for a rerun of the general election.An emergency room doctor testified this week in the ongoing criminal trial against New York State Senator Hiram Monserrate. Monserrate faces charges of felony assault in an alleged attack on his girlfriend Karla Giraldo.The prosecution has asserted that when Monserrate discovered that his girlfriend had the business card of another man, he chose to strike out at her. Monserrate has entered a plea of not guilty to charges he sliced his girlfriend's face with broken glass during a conflict at their apartment in December 2008. The defense team denied that the injury to the woman by Monserrate was intentional, instead claiming that the incident was "an accident" and the result of Monserrate tripping while bringing Giraldo a glass of water.Dawne Kort, attending physician at the emergency department of Long Island Jewish Hospital, testified that Giraldo repeatedly told her she had been in a fight with Monserrate, and that he intentionally injured her with a piece of broken glass. Dr. Kort brought the situation to the attention of the police because she believed Monserrate had stabbed Giraldo – Dr. Kort also was aware that Monserrate was in the waiting room and she had concerns about Giraldo's safety.Dr. Kort testified that Giraldo told her Monserrate had exclaimed: "You want the water? You want the water? Here's the water!", and then proceeded to smash a glass into Giraldo's face. Dr. Kort testified that Monserrate's girlfriend told her Giraldo and Monseratte "were fighting and she asked for a glass of water and he shoved it in her face." Dr. Kort said that Giraldo cried: "I can't believe he did this to me. My face! My face! I can't believe my face," on the night of December 19, 2008, while being treated in the hospital. According to Dr. Kort, another emergency physician said Monserrate had asserted the incident was an accident. When queried about how Giraldo responded to this assertion, Kort testified: "She said many times it was not an accident. They were fighting and he took a piece of glass and cut her face." Giraldo had lacerations surrounding the area of her left eye which required stitches. Dr. Kort also testified as to the nature of the injuries: "It appeared to be a stab wound. It's hospital policy that all stab wounds get reported to the police." The testimony of Dr. Kort is in contradiction to a sworn statement given after the incident by Giraldo, as well as by arguments from defense counsel. Monserrate's lawyer Joseph Tacopina challenged Dr. Kort on cross examination, arguing that his client's girlfriend's statements to the doctor were inconsistent. Tacopina queried Dr. Kort on specifically when she wrote down notes about Giraldo's statements; Dr. Kort admitted she waited 18 days before writing down her memories of the event. When challenged by Tacopina on her ability to recall the event, Dr. Kort responded: "This was memorable." Tacopina later commented outside the court to journalists about Dr. Kort's testimony: "I think [the doctor] is officially impeached, but I’m not the fact finder that’s up to the judge. Clearly, she said things very differently in the grand jury than she did on December 19, 2008 the date of the accident."Chief resident at Long Island Jewish, Dr. Daniel Frogel, submitted a statement which was read in court. Dr. Frogel wrote down his memories of the event on January 2. His statement said that he recalls Giraldo told him "it was not an accident".Supreme Court Justice William Erlbaum will judge the case without a jury, as Monserrate waived his right for a trial before his peers. Monseratte's defense counsel attempted to suppress Dr. Kort's testimony in pretrial hearings. However, Justice Erlbaum ruled to allow the doctor's statement. The group National Organization for Women has requested that the judge rule Monserrate should be given "the maximum sentence allowable by law". If convicted, Democrat Sen. Monserrate could serve prison time and lose his New York State Senate seat. Monserrate is a former city councilman. He became a member of the New York State Senate weeks after the conflict with Giraldo, and was made chair of the committee overseeing consumer affairs. Along with Democrat Pedro Espada Jr., Monserrate started a shift in control of the Senate by aligning with the Republican Party.According to ornithologists, a rare Philippines buttonquail feared to have gone extinct was recently documented alive by a cameraman inadvertently filming a local market, right before it was sold and headed for the cooking pot. Scientists had suspected the species—listed as "data deficient" on the 2008 International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List Category—was extinct. Last month, native bird trappers snared and successfully caught the Luzon Buttonquail (Turnix worcesteri or Worcester's buttonquail) in Dalton Pass, a cold and wind-swept bird passageway in the Caraballo Mountains, in Nueva Vizcaya, located between Cordillera Central and Sierra Madre mountain ranges, in Northern Luzon. The rare species, previously known to birders only through drawings based on dead museum specimens collected several decades ago, was identified in a documentary filmed in the Philippines called Bye-Bye Birdie.British birder and WBCP member Desmond Allen was watching a January 26 DVD-video of  a documentary, Bye-Bye Birdie, when he recognized the bird in a still image of the credits that lasted less than a second. Allen created a screenshot, which was photographed by their birder-companion, Arnel Telesforo, also a WBCP member,in Nueva Vizcaya's poultry market, before it was cooked and eaten.i-Witness: The GMA Documentaries, a Philippine documentary news and public affairs television show aired by GMA Network, had incorporated Telesforo's photographs and video footage of the live bird in the documentary, that was created by the TV crew led by Mr Howie Severino. The Philippine Network had not realized what they filmed until Allen had informed the crew of interesting discovery.Mr Severino and the crew were at that time, in Dalton Pass to film "akik", the traditional practice of trapping wild birds with nets by first attracting them with bright lights on moonless nights. "I'm shocked. I don't know of any other photos of this. No bird watchers have ever given convincing reports that they have seen it at all... This is an exciting discovery," said Allen. The Luzon Buttonquail was only known through an illustration in the authoritative book by Robert S. Kennedy, et al, A Guide to the Birds of the Philippines. This birders "bible" includes a drawing based on the skins of dead specimens collected a century ago, whereas the otherwise comprehensive image bank of the Oriental Bird Club does not contain a single image of the Worcester's Buttonquail.“With the photograph and the promise of more sightings in the wild, we can see the living bill, the eye color, the feathers, rather than just the mushed-up museum skin,” exclaimed Allen, who has been birdwatching for fifty years, fifteen in the Philippines, and has an extensive collection of bird calls on his ipod. He has also spotted the Oriental (or Manchurian) Bush Warbler, another rare bird which he has not seen in the Philippines. “We are ecstatic that this rarely seen species was photographed by accident. It may be the only photo of this poorly known bird. But I also feel sad that the locals do not value the biodiversity around them and that this bird was sold for only P10 and headed for the cooking pot,” Wild Bird Club of the Philippines (WBCP) president Mike Lu said. “Much more has to be done in creating conservation awareness and local consciousness about our unique threatened bird fauna. This should be an easy task for the local governments assisted by the DENR. What if this was the last of its species?” Lu added.“This is a very important finding. Once you don’t see a bird species in a generation, you start to wonder if it’s extinct, and for this bird species we simply do not know its status at all," said Arne Jensen, a Danish ornithologist and biodiversity expert, and WBCP Records Committee head.According to the WBCP, the Worcester’s buttonquail was first described based on specimens bought in Quinta Market in Quiapo, Manila in 1902, and was named after Dean Conant Worcester.Since then just a few single specimens have been photographed and filmed from Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet, and lately, in 2007, from Mountain Province by the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, Illinois.Dean Conant Worcester, D.Sc., F.R.G.S. was an American zoologist, public official, and authority on the Philippines, born at Thetford, Vermont, and educated at the University of Michigan (A.B., 1889).  From 1899 to 1901 he was a member of the  United States Philippine Commission; thenceforth until 1913 he served as secretary of the interior for the Philippine Insular Government. In 1910, he founded the Philippine General Hospital, which has become the hospital for the poor and the sick.In October, 2004, at the request of Mr Moises Butic, Lamut CENR Officer, Mr Jon Hornbuckle, of Grove Road, Sheffield, has conducted a short investigation into bird-trapping in Ifugao, Mountain Province, Banaue Mount Polis, Sagada and Dalton Pass, in Nueva Vizcaya."Prices ranged from 100 pesos for a Fruit-Dove to 300 pesos for a Metallic Pigeon. Other species that are caught from time to time include Flame-breasted Fruit-Dove and Luzon Bleeding-heart; on one occasion, around 50 of the latter were trapped! All other trapped birds are eaten," said Hornbuckle. "The main trapping season is November to February. Birds are caught at the lights using butterfly-catching type nets. Quails and Buttonquails were more often shot in the fields at this time, rather than caught, and occasionally included the rare Luzon (Worcester’s) Buttonquail, which is only known from dead specimens, and is a threatened bird species reported from Dalton Pass," he added.In August, 1929, Richard C. McGregor and Leon L. Gardner of the Cooper Ornithological Society compiled a book entitled Philippine Bird Traps. The authors described the Luzon Buttonquail as "very rare," having only encountered it twice, once in August and once in September. "They are caught with a scoop net from the back of a carabao. Filipino hunters snared them, baiting with branches of artificial red peppers made of sealing wax," wrote McGregor and Leon L. Gardner. "The various ingenious and effectual devices used by Filipinos for bird-trapping include [the] 'Teepee Trap' which consists of a conical tepee, woven of split bamboo and rattan about 3 feet high and 3 feet across at the base, with a fairly narrow entrance. 'Spring Snares' were also used, where a slip noose fastened to a strongly bent bamboo or other elastic branch, which is released by a trigger, which is usually the perch of the trap," their book explained.A passage from the bird-trap book, which explains why Filipinos had eaten these endangered bird species, goes as follows:A global review of threatened species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) indicates drastic decline of animal and plant life. This includes a quarter of all mammals, one out of eight birds, one out of three amphibians and 70 percent of plants.The report, Red List of Threatened Species, is published by IUCN every year. Additionally, a global assessment of the health of the world's species is released once in four years. The data is compiled by 1,700 experts from 130 countries. The key findings of the report were announced at the World Conservation Congress held in Barcelona, Spain. The survey includes 44,838 species of wild fauna and flora, out of which 16,928 species are threatened with extinction. Among the threatened, 3,246 are tagged critically endangered, the highest category of threat. Another 4,770 species are endangered and 8,912 vulnerable to extinction. Environmental scientists say they have concrete evidence that the planet is undergoing the "largest mass extinction in 65 million years". Leading environmental scientist Professor Norman Myers says the Earth is experiencing its "Sixth Extinction."Scientists forecast that up to five million species will be lost this century. "We are well into the opening phase of a mass extinction of species. There are about 10 million species on earth. If we carry on as we are, we could lose half of all those 10 million species," Myers said.Scientists are warning that by the end of this century, the planet could lose up to half its species, and that these extinctions will alter not only biological diversity but also the evolutionary processes itself. They state that human activities have brought our planet to the point of biotic crisis.In 1993, Harvard biologist E.O. Wilson estimated that the planet is losing 30,000 species per year - around three species per hour. Some biologists have begun to feel that the biodiversity crisis dubbed the "Sixth Extinction" is even more severe, and more imminent, than Wilson had expected.The Luzon Buttonquail (Turnix worcesteri) is a species of bird in the Turnicidae family. It is endemic to the island of Luzon in the Philippines, where it is known from just six localities thereof. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical high-altitude grassland, in the highlands of the Cordillera Central, although records are from 150-1,250 m, and the possibility that it frequents forested (non-grassland) habitats cannot be discounted.The buttonquails or hemipodes are a small family of  birds which resemble, but are unrelated to, the true quails. They inhabit warm grasslands in Asia, Africa, and Australia. They are assumed to be intra-island migrants, and  breed somewhere in northern Luzon in April-June and that at least some birds disperse southwards in the period July-March. These Turnicidae are small, drab, running birds, which avoid flying. The female is the more brightly coloured of the sexes, and initiates courtship. Unusually, the buttonquails are polyandrous, with the females circulating among several males and expelling rival females from her territory. Both sexes cooperate in building a nest in the earth, but only the male incubates the eggs and tends the young.Called "Pugo" (quail) by natives, these birds inhabit rice paddies and scrub lands near farm areas because of the abundance of seeds and insects that they feed on regularly. These birds are characterized by their black heads with white spots, a brown or fawn colored body and yellow legs on males and the females are brown with white and black spots. These birds are very secretive, choosing to make small path ways through the rice fields, which unfortunately leads to their deaths as well, they are hunted by children and young men by means of setting spring traps along their usual path ways.Buttonquails are a notoriously cryptic and unobtrusive family of birds, and the species could conceivably occur in reasonable numbers somewhere. They are included in the 2008 IUCN Red List Category (as evaluated by BirdLife International IUCN Red List of Threatened Species). They are also considered as Vulnerable species by IUCN and BirdLife International, since these species is judged to have a ten percent chance of going extinct in the next one hundred years.The Director of public prosecutions in England and Wales are going to seek a retrial for three men who are thought to have been involved in a plot to attempt to bomb transatlantic flights.Ibrahim Savant and Arafat Khan are both 28 years old. Waheed Zaman is 25 years old. All of the men were recently found "not guilty" of attempting to bomb aircrafts. A spokesman for the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer, confirmed that he will be seeking a retrial.On Monday, a jury in Woolwich Crown Court in London, England failed to reach verdicts for the three men, based on charges of conspiracy to murder, which is why the Director of Public Prosecutions of England and Wales is seeking a retrial.Starmer said: "My task is to judge whether, taking into account all relevant considerations, the public interest is better served in this particular case by offering no evidence or by seeking a further retrial. Having regard to the very serious nature of the charge and the very considerable public interest in having the allegation determined by a jury one way or the other, I have concluded that, in this exceptional case, it is in the public interest to seek a further retrial."The total number of people killed and injured by police officers driving cars in the course of their duties in England and Wales has risen by 61% in just one year.The figures were released by Home Office minister Hazel Blears in a written answer to a question from Lynne Featherstone, MP for Hornsey and Wood Green in London.They show that in 2002-2003, a total of 22 people were killed and 1,131 were injured.But in 2003-2004, the number killed has increased to 31, with more than 2,000 injured, of which 138 were serious.All the people killed or injured were involved in road traffic collisions with police vehicles responding to emergency calls, or those involved in high-speed pursuits.The police force with the worst record for deaths is Greater Manchester Police. Four people died in collisions involving GMP vehicles in 2002-2003, but the number increased to 6 the following year. However, the number injured dropped from 74 to 56 over the same period.The safest force was Dyfed-Powys Police, who did not kill or injure anyone in both years. The force covers a rural area of Wales, with a low population density.Independent Police Complaints Commission Chair Nick Hardwick issued a statement in response to the figures.Training and risk assessment are the keys to reducing deaths and serious injuries involving police drivers", he said."We all accept that in emergencies police officers have to speed and go through red lights but they must not take unacceptable risks, either for themselves or the public.""The IPCC will continue to manage or independently investigate the most serious collisions involving police driving. We are ensuring that the lessons learned will benefit the police service."British murderer Gordon Park was found dead today in his cell at a prison in Lancashire, England.  Park, whose 66th birthday was today, was convicted nearly five years ago of the murder of his wife, Carol, in 1976.  Her body was found over twenty years later in Coniston Water, in the Lake District, Northern England, leading to her being dubbed the "Lady in the Lake" by police, after the Raymond Chandler novel.The Prison Service state Park was found hanging in his cell at Garth Prison, unconscious, at 8am local time. "Staff and paramedics attended but Mr Park was pronounced dead at 9.40am", a spokesman added.  An investigation has been launched by the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman, responsible for investigating deaths in custody; but suicide is suspected. His son, Jeremy, who had been fighting for his father's release, said "[w]e are all completely devastated and still believe his innocence 100%."Park was jailed for life in January 2005, with a minimum period of fifteen years, for his wife's murder after a ten-week trial at Manchester Crown Court. Carol Park was killed with an ice axe, then her body concealed in Coniston Water. She was not found until August 1997, when divers found her weighted corpse 70 feet deep. Park had claimed that his wife had left him for another man. His appeal against conviction was turned down in 2008, with the Court of Appeal saying that the geological evidence he wished to challenge was only one factor of the "strong circumstantial case" proving his guilt.A court in England, UK has jailed a policeman for ten months after he was convicted of defrauding his car insurance company. Police Constable Simon Hood, 43, arranged for a friend who dealt in scrap metal to dispose of his Audi TT, then claimed it had been stolen.Hood had been disappointed with the car's value when he tried to sell it two years after its purchase in 2008. He arranged for friend Peter Marsh, 41, to drive the vehicle to his scrapyard in Great Yarmouth, Norfolk. Marsh then dismantled the vehicle with the intent of disposing of it, but parts were later found wrapped in bubblewrap at Ace Tyre and Exhaust Centre.Marsh picked up the TT from outside nearby Gorleston police station. Records show mobile phone conversations between the conspirators that day in March, both before and after the vehicle was reported stolen. The pair denied wrongdoing but were convicted of conspiring to commit insurance fraud after trial.The fraud was uncovered after Hood told former girlfriend Suzanne Coates of the scheme. It was alleged before Norwich Crown Court that he had confessed to her in an effort to resume their relationship. Coates said that after the pseudotheft, Hood told her "he didn't want to look for it. He said it would be like looking for a needle in a haystack, which I thought was a bit strange." Shortly afterwards Hood suggested they should become a couple once more, she said; she challenged his version of events regarding the car: "He said he did it but I couldn't tell anyone. He said he did it with Peter. Peter had a key and took the car away and it was going to be taken to bits and got rid of so it was never found."Hood was defended by Michael Clare and Marsh by Richard Potts. Both lawyers told the court that their clients had already suffered as a result of the action in mitigation before sentencing. Clare said Hood had resigned from the police after fifteen years of otherwise good service and risked losing his pension. "It is not a case where his position as a police officer was used in order to facilitate the fraud," he pointed out. "His career is in ruins." Hood is now pursuing a career in plumbing.Potts defended Marsh by saying that he, too, had already suffered from his actions. His own insurers are refusing to renew their contract with him when it expires and his bank withdrew its overdraft facility. His business employs 21 people and Potts cited Marsh's sponsorship of Great Yarmouth In Bloom as amongst evidence he supported his local community. Judge Alasdair Darroch told Marsh that he did accept the man was attempting to help his friend. He sentenced Marsh to six months imprisonment, suspended for two years and ordered to carry out 250 hours of community service. He was more critical of Hood:"As a police officer you know the highest possible standards are demanded by the public. You have let down the force. You knew throughout your career that policemen that get involved in serious dishonesty get sent to prison."A jury in Newcastle Crown Court, northeast England has cleared a police officer of some charges in a trial over serial rapes and related offences, and convicted him of others. Northumbria Police's Police Constable Stephen Mitchell faced five counts of rape, six of indecent assault and 15 of misconduct in public office. He is guilty of two rapes, three indecent assaults and six counts of misconduct, with most of the sex charge convictions coming yesterday.In all the case involved 16 women aged from 17 to 48, all of whom were arrested on drugs charges or shoplifting thefts between 1999 and 2006; the prosecution said Mitchell picked his victims based on vulnerability. The prosecution claimed Mitchell used blackmail to demand sex in exchange for favours; Mitchell described a conspiracy to frame him involving "...a very small-knit community in Newcastle city centre's criminal fraternity." Mitchell's defence dismissed the claims as driven by one woman motivated by "self-preservation;" he refused to explain this further in open court.It was alleged he told one woman who wanted a female officer present when searched said "I am the law. I can do anything. I don't need a woman here," and later attacked her in his patrol car. The woman had been arrested for possession of drugs and was 37. "Each [victim] was vulnerable, whether because of drug abuse, health problems, domestic circumstances or a combination of these factors. The defendant took advantage of their vulnerabilities, usually providing or offering favours, but then requesting, or in some cases requiring by force, sexual favours in return," was how prosecutor Paul Sloan QC explained the circumstances early in the trial.Testimony in October included that of one lesbian, now 32, who in June 1999 was interviewed by the officer in Newcastle's Pilgrim Street police station, and claimed he groped her and "that was the beginning of hell for me". She told the court from behind a screen how he undid his trousers, saying that in arranging for her to be bailed he had helped her and he expected this reciprocated. "I was gay and had never had sex with a male," but she claimed she was grabbed by the hair and forced, with a warning her girlfriend would be contacted if she made allegations. She had been arrested for cheque fraud.She said the next month she was arrested again and he made a similar demand. Her testimony stated that he blackmailed her for four years, receiving regular sex after driving her into the country, culminating in a 2003 handcuffed rape at her home. She told the court he gave her drug money, as well as a lighter and foil to take heroin, after discovering she was in rehab. She says she pretended to take the drug but disposed of it, leaving rehab and beginning to study in 2002 in the belief the man had been evaded. However, "[my] world just crumbled before me" when he arrived at her door and stole her spare keys, she said. She claimed he regularly visited her Sunderland house when she was away and once left a knife embedded in her pillow. She testified her fear made her sleep beneath her bed. Her testimony stated the policeman used what he said was video evidence of her committing fraud at a Post Office and in 2003 said he was going to hand the tape over. She said when he arrived "[h]e was furious, he said I had disrespected him by not being in touch. I was trying to calm him down but he handcuffed me and said he was arresting me for fraud at the post office. He threw me over the settee, I couldn’t move with the handcuffs on, I was petrified. He said this is what you’ve wanted for a long time and he raped me." She moved to Durham shortly after.Detective Constable Cath Easton of Northumbria Police's Professional Standards Unit said she visited one woman in June last year during the investigation. Although stating she had no problems with police treatment, Easton testified the woman called the following day. "She was crying, she was hysterical," Easton told the court."It took her a while to get her words out, but she was saying 'how do I know I can trust you? How do I know he has not sent you to test us?' She was frightened and she told us she was frightened. She was in a real state... She was absolutely terrified that he knew I had contacted her." The alleged victim was assured the investigation was genuine and later called again, claiming Mitchell forced her to perform a sex act following the former heroin addict's arrest six years previously. Another woman told the court Mitchell raped her whilst in uniform in the woman's flat, hands cuffed behind her, and blackmailed her for years demanding sexual favours.One woman, 25 at the time, said while in Newcastle's Pilgrim Street police station following her arrest for a minor offence she was grabbed and kissed by the policeman. "He put his hands on my shoulders and kissed me, it was a passionate kiss. The door was open and I was shocked, anyone could have walked past or seen him or anything." She told the court this occurred in the fingerprint room. "After I was photographed he told me he was finishing his shift, which I took to be a hint," the witness, another former heroin addict who said she was drunk at the time, continued. "Then when I came out of the station PC Mitchell pulled up in a car and offered to take me home, it seemed the safest way of getting home was with a police officer." She had no complaint about him during the journey but said she resisted another kiss upon arrival at her house.The woman, who says she has not used drugs for nine years, stated that he arrived at her house the following day and gave her a second lift. “He said he had a wife and kids but that he would like to see me again. Obviously it was never going to happen but he was saying he wanted some kind of relationship where he was seeing me on a regular basis, I would imagine for sex or something like that. He said we would have to be discreet because he had a wife but I was not interested and eventually he accepted my ‘no’." She said he gave her money, suggested they get a private room and was "very persuasive". Her mother also gave evidence to say Mitchell had called her to discuss the daughter's drug-addict boyfriend. "You want to stop her going with him, he's trouble, he's a bad lad," she claimed Mitchell said, adding her daughter told her the officer "was pestering her, she said he wanted to take her out." The boyfriend also gave evidence, saying he had known the officer during former heroin addiction and giving a description of him.One young mother met Mitchell when released from prison in 2001 after a theft sentence. Days later, he had given her heroin and felt she "owed him" according to testimony, receiving sex in return. She failed to attend Gateshead Magistrates' Court in December the following year and he arrested her, she told the court. She wept, claiming he raped her in his vehicle. "I could not get out of the car, the doors were locked," she told the trial."He said he wanted to have sex and that it would be the last time. I was shouting for him to let me out of the car, just screaming and shouting at him to let me go. He said if I told anybody, nobody would believe me because I was just a dirty junkie and I would never get my children back," she said, describing him telling her he would plant drugs at her home and prevent access to her children if she made claims against him.In November a woman in her fifties, who has four children and was 48 during her alleged attack, testified Mitchell raped her in a room used for reading reports at Pilgrim Street following her July 2006 theft arrest. "No one's going to believe a thief," he is claimed to have told her. "I said if you just let me go I'm not going to say anything; I'm not going to tell anyone. No one will ever know this has happened. I just wanted to be away." She says she explained she was ill and taking cancer medication although "he did not seem bothered."Outside the police station following the alleged attack, "...there was two young lasses coming along. I will always remember one had a red Berghaus coat on. They seemed to know PC Mitchell and he did not seem to know whether to stay with me or talk to them and I just walked straight across the road. I was in total shock. I got on the bus home and I was trying to keep from crying and I had a pain in my throat." She said her life had been severely affected; "I was always thinking about it and crying for no reason. I just used to burst into tears for no reason and I’m not a crying person. I’m normally bubbly and happy and I really just let myself go. I never ever went with my partner again and from that day to this I have never slept with another man." She triggered the probe that resulted in Mitchell's prosecution by reporting him when, she says, he began arriving at her house.She told Sloan she had not immediately contacted police because "I thought no-one would believe me. I was a shoplifter and he was a police officer. I still would never have been here to this day if he had not kept coming back to the house. If he had not done that it would have been a secret till the day I died."Mitchell, who has been a policeman since leaving the military in 1991, stated in the dock this month that the women had discussed their "host of rumours" amongst themselves and they were similar for this reason. "I think it has been demonstrated that people have been talking about this on a number of occasions... I know these people are not always truthful." "But you are?" responded prosecution QC Paul Sloan. "Yes, these people will grab any opportunity they can," according to the officer. "They are lying," he later added.In an attempt to disprove this defence the prosecution produced a sex tape in which Mitchell uses similar phrases to his partner as the women alleged he had said to them. "So it just so happens the words used are exactly the words you used in the video?" Sloan inquired. PC Mitchell desribed this as coincidence and rejected claims he had used such words to any of the women. He also said supplying heroin to one addict was far too risky for him; "I know police monitor drug dealers’ homes and it would be a massive risk to take my vehicle to the address of a drug dealer. I don't want people to be on drugs. If I could help them I would."Mitchell, 42, divorced in 2005, admitted meeting a woman he had met on duty for sex in 2006, having admitted the same at an internal misconduct hearing in September 2007. He told the court that if interviewing woman it was in his interests as an officer to be friendly, but insisted this was all. Defended by Toby Hedworth QC, Mitchell said his father's murder meant he could not possibly have committed one rape in Burdon, near Sunderland, on August 31, 2001 as he had returned to his original home city of Glasgow following his father's murder. He was accused of raping the woman in a parked car in a field. "Have you ever been with her in the fields in the Burdon area of Sunderland?" asked Hedworth. "No, I haven’t. My dad was attacked on July 30, 2001 by somebody and subsequently died on August 10, 2001." Hedworth: "Had your father in fact been murdered?" Mitchell: "Yes. And from the 9th to the 16th of August I was in Glasgow," he explained. Hedworth took him through denials of every charge, which he said there was "no truth whatsoever" in.The defence also produced a recording secretly recorded by Mitchell with Detective Chief Inspector Chris Sharman, who headed the rape investigation. Hedworth told the court Mitchell is warned on the tape, made in March, that if he is charged he would "probably be front page of the national newspapers and they are horrible" but the team would "stop digging" if he stepped down.Hedworth likened the offer to a Monopoly "get out of jail free card" and claimed despite a warning his client was "running the risk of going to jail and going on the sex offender register", Mitchell chose to fight the allegations - a fact which demonstrated innocence. "What it means is: ‘Resign and this will go away’." The prosecution denied Northumbria Police were seeking to offer their colleague an alternative to investigation, stating the allegation - made during Hedworth's closing speech - was untrue and the recording did not indicate an offer to drop the probe.The jury began deliberations on Wednesday. After three days, on Friday they cleared Mitchell of three rapes, two indecent assaults and two counts of misconduct in a public office. Following this, trial judge Mr Justice Wilkie said he would accept majority verdicts on the remaining charges, instead of unanimous verdicts. The jury departed for the weekend, returning on Tuesday to convict him of six misconduct charges and clear him of the same number; another indecent assault charge also produced an acquital.Yesterday, the verdicts were delivered on the remaining charges. The remaining seven misconduct charges were acquitals, as did the other indecent assaults. Two charges of rape and three of indecent assault produced guilty verdicts. At least one of the misconduct charges he was convicted of was unrelated to indecent assault or rape; it concerned a drug-addicted woman caught with non-prescriped diazepam (valium) when her friend was arrested for shoplifting in 2003. Her testimony was that he stroked her leg and tried to kiss her in Pilgrim Street, returned the drugs upon her release, obtained her number and met her several times to give her drugs. She says although he asked to go at night to a hotel she refused, and ultimately she began ignoring his calls while he ceased supplying drugs.Stephen Molyneux has resigned from his post of Justice of the Peace in Shropshire, England, after a fellow magistrate reported him for posting messages about a case on the social networking website Twitter.Professor Molyneux, an IT consultant and former mayor of Oakengates, tweeted information about bail applications on an armed robbery case. He wrote 'just about to hear application from 3 robbers from Manchster as to whether to remand or not', '1st defendant. Conspiricy [sic] to rob TSB of £500,000. Good start - wrong previous convictions presented' and 'finished hearing bail. 3 refused for planning robbery of £480,000 from Tsb [sic] in Dawley, Telford'.Molyneux claimed nothing that he said could have prejudiced a case and he only mentioned what had been discussed in open court. He also claimed he was trying to make the criminal justice system seem more transparent. He also stated he had never tweeted whilst in court, but only in the retiring room.He resigned after he received a letter from the Shropshire Advisory Committee, which requested a meeting.PC Stephen Mitchell, a policeman with northern England's Northumbria Police, has been remanded into custody after going before a court accused of being a serial rapist.  Mitchell was arrested in Scotland on Monday and appeared before court yesterday.Northumbria police made the arrest in Glasgow in connection with a string of attacks between 1999 and 2007 with nineteen alleged victims. He was taken to Northumbria, where officers on Wednesday charged him with seven rapes, seventeen sexual assaults, and nineteen instances of misconduct in a public office, totalling 43 offences.41-year-old Mitchell, who has served covering the Newcastle and Northumberland areas, was denied bail at Newcastle Magistrates' Court by a district judge and will remain in prison until his next court appearance, before the Crown Court on February 4.  He had initially appeared the day he was charged, but the case was adjourned one day to allow time for a bail request to be prepared.The investigation was conducted by the professional standards department of Mitchell's police force, who are being supervised by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.  A Commission spokesman described the inquiry as an "ongoing investigation" and asked anyone who might know anything relevant to get in touch with police.A court in England yesterday cleared a serving police officer of rape. However, Police Constable (PC) Nicholas Stone was told by the trial judge he faces jail for  having sex with the woman — for which he has been found guilty of misconduct in a public office.Stone was being tried for events from 1999 to 2001, when he worked for Devon and Cornwall Police. He met the woman involved following an arrest of a relative of hers. The prosecution had alleged he had sex with her on duty, and that this represented misconduct. He faced three misconduct charges, but was cleared of the other two by a jury at Exeter Crown Court.The prosecution case continued that the woman ended the relationship after discovering Stone was married. It was claimed he raped her in 2001 and that this resulted in a pregnancy that she miscarried. Stone had rejected every one of these claims; he accepted he had sex with the woman but not that it was ever on-duty or non-consensual. His wife supported him as he was prosecuted.Edward Burgess, defending, had suggested to the jury anger at Stone's lack of support for the woman following the miscarriage motivated the woman to lie about being raped. He told the jury their feelings about Stone's unfaithfulness towards his wife should not influence their decisions. Judge Graham Cottle had given similar instructions as he sent them out to begin deliberations on Thursday: "What is required of you is a dispassionate assessment of the evidence."Stone's present employers are Avon and Somerset Police, who have suspended him since last June. Cottle has commented that the woman was "extremely vulnerable" and in having sex with her Stone, of Taunton, took advantage of his job and could expect a prison sentence. Avon and Somerset Police commented after conviction that "[t]he community can find confidence in the fact that police do police themselves."A jury in Houston found Former Enron Corp. CEOs Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling guilty of 6 kinds of white-collar crime on May 25. Lay was convicted of all ten counts against him, while Skilling was convicted of only nineteen of the charged twenty-eight counts. The variety of charges on which both men were convicted was astonishing; conspiracy, wire fraud, false statements to banks and auditors, and others. Both men now face many years in prison.Outside the courtroom, Skilling continued to proclaim his innocence. "Obviously, I'm disappointed, but that's the way the system works," Skilling said after the verdict. He is expected to appeal. Lay did not immediately speak to reporters outside the courtroom.The verdict was reached on the sixth day of deliberations after a four-month-long trial and brings to a close the first of the wave of accounting scandals earlier in the decade. The verdict also represents another major victory for the government, which has successfully prosecuted a number of high-profile executives involved in accounting scandals, as well as obtained sixteen guilty pleas from former Enron executives.Sentencing has been set for September 11, 2006. U.S. District Judge Sim Lake ordered Lay to post a $5 million bond and surrender his passport before leaving the courtroom.The Entertainment Software Association president Douglas Lowenstein confirmed speculations that his group is planning to file a lawsuit against the state of Oklahoma because of a new law, HB3004.  Under this law,  games that have "inappropriate violence" are added to a list of materials that are considered harmful to minors.Lowenstein said that the ESA believes "HB3004 will restrict the First Amendment rights of Oklahoma's citizens and intend to file suit in Oklahoma federal district court shortly, asking that the state's new video game law be overturned."Similar laws have been found unconstitutional in St. Louis, Indianapolis, Washington, Illinois, and Michigan.  A California video game law is currently being reviewed in federal court.  Last week, a Minnesota law was passed fining minors $25 for purchasing games rated "mature" or "adults only".  Shortly afterwards, the ESA filed a lawsuit there.The Church of Scientology in southern California, United States have received several envelopes containing a white powder which authorities say ended up being wheat germ and corn starch.Authorities had to evacuate at least one building in Tustin and shut down a street in Glendale while they examined the substance. Envelopes were also sent to Hollywood, Los Angeles, San Fernando Valley and Santa Monica locations."Initial field testing by LAPD indicates the powder is harmless. However, further testing will be conducted. We will also work to assess what threat, if any, was associated with the mailings and determine whether any federal statutes were violated," said Laura Eimiller, a spokeswoman for the FBI.The envelopes, which we were sent through the United States Postal Service, targeted 10 different Churches throughout southern California. Some also contained threats.The Church has not issued a statement regarding the incidents and no one has yet claimed responsibility for sending the envelopes. This comes just before a scheduled protest which an Internet group called 'Anonymous' has organized, set to take place on February 10 at Church locations across the globe. According to the Los Angeles Times, authorities stated that there was no evidence connecting the mailings to the Internet group.On a Project Chanology website, 'Anonymous' made a statement about the senders of the powder under the heading 'To the Public and Anybody Investigating the Anthrax Hoax': "They may not even be Anonymous (they might even have been a plant by the "Church" of Scientology as black propaganda); we do not know, and by the nature of our organization, cannot know."British mercenary Simon Mann was released from a jail in Equatorial Guinea after being pardoned for attempting to overthrow the government.Mann, along with several dozen other suspected plotters, was arrested five years ago on charges of trying to start a coup to overthrow president Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo. Their plans were foiled, however, and Mann was arrested after arriving in Zimbabwe to purchase firearms and grenades.The conspirators had planned to install exiled opposition leader Severo Moto as president and to gain control over the country's vast oil supplies. Equatorial Guinea is Africa's third biggest oil producer.The government said that the decision was made on compassionate grounds, seeing as Mann, aged 57, was reportedly not in good health. It stated that Mann had "shown sufficient and credible signs of repentance and a desire to take his place in society."Amnesty was also given to four other co-conspirators, among them Nick Du Toit, from South Africa.Mann was arrested along with 63 others in 2004 when his plane landed in Zimbabwe allegedly to collect arms bought from the country's state arms manufacturer. He was extradited to Equatorial Guinea in 2008.Friday, April 8, 2005  Eric Rudolph, who was on the FBI's most wanted list and a fugitive bomber for more than five years, has reached a deal with prosecutors that gives him life in prison instead of a possible death sentence.Rudolph will plead guilty to a string of bombings — an attack during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia; a Birmingham, Alabama women's clinic in 1998. He was facing trial on other bombing charges including a lesbian night club and another women's clinic, both in the Atlanta area.Although one of the victims said she thought the plea bargain put too little penalty on Rudolf for his crimes, prosecutors said it was better to make a deal to put Rudolf in prison for life and protect others from future attack.The government of Eritrea has accused four British men who were detained last December of espionage and terrorism. The men were working for Protection Vessels International (PVI), a maritime security company, when they disappeared on December 24, 2010. According to the company, the group was forced to make an unscheduled stop at the port of Massawa due to rough weather, refuelling and equipment repairs.A statement made on television by the Eritrean authorities said that the men had a variety of weapons, including 18 sniper rifles and "1,700 bullets." The statement also claimed that "there is high possibility that such military hardware is intended for perpetrating acts of terrorism and sabotage." PVI hit back at the claims, saying that the weapons were "standard issue for antipiracy operations."Paul Gibbins, a spokesman for PVI, spoke to the British newspaper The Daily Telegraph, saying "[t]his is a gross misunderstanding and we regret the situation that we find ourselves in. We will continue to work very hard for the men’s release and we welcome any dialogue with the Eritrean authorities."Two of the four men being held are former Royal Marines. Three of the men have been named as Adrian Troy, Christopher Collison, and Alun Sims.A car bomb exploded early Monday near a military academy in the coastal town of Santona, in northern Spain, killing a soldier and wounding several others. The authorities blame the Basque separatist group ETA for the attack. It was the third car bombing in 24 hours believed to have been caused by ETA.The first bomb exploded early Sunday near the headquarters of the Caja Vital Kutxa bank in the Basque political capital, Vitoria-Gasteiz. No one was injured, but the building suffered heavy damage.A few hours later a second bomb exploded near an Ertzaintza (Basque police) station in the coastal town of Ondarroa. Three police officers and seven civilians were injured. Officials said two suspected bombers parked a car close to the outside wall of the station, threw a Molotov cocktail to attract attention, and then detonated about 100kg of explosives. The latest blast happened at about 01:00 (2300 UTC Sunday) and was preceded by a warning call in the name of ETA. The army officer Brigadier Luis Conde de la Cruz was killed and another soldier severely injured while the police were securing the area.The attacks come at a time of increased turbulence in Basque politics. This week Spanish courts outlawed two Basque nationalist political parties (which have hundreds of elected town councillors and regional parliament deputies) charged of being directly linked to ETA and jailed 21 people who work on behalf of ETA prisoners and their relatives.The suspected military chief of the Basque nationalist group ETA was arrested in a pre-dawn raid on Monday in the town of Cauterets in Southern France.  Mikel Garikoitz Aspiazu Rubina, alias Txeroki (English: Cherokee), was arrested along with a woman who has not been named.He was arrested in a joint operation by Spanish and French police. He is being held in France in connection with the killing of two Spanish Civil Guards in Capbreton, France, December 1, 2007. Spanish Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero said, "Today Eta is weaker and Spanish democracy is stronger.""The arrest shows the unfailing determination of the police forces in the battle against any form of terrorism. It also illustrates once again the admirable collaboration between France and Spain in the fight against Basque terrorism," read a statement from French Interior Minister Michèle Alliot-Marie's office. The ETA organization is blamed by authorities for the deaths of 820 people since it began campaigning for a separate Basque state in the 1960s. According to CNN, Txeroki is thought to have joined the ETA in 2000, rising to become the military chief in 2004.Authorities in Spain say that at least two explosive devices were found on a section of the Tour de France bicycle race just outside the Spanish town of Belagua. Authorities say that "a small amount of explosives", were placed inside plastic food containers then placed on both sides of the road.There are no reports of injuries but conflicting reports say that the cyclists passed the area before the devices went off, while others report that the devices were detonated before the cyclists passed.The Basque separatist group known as the ETA have claimed responsibility for placing the devices on the route. A telephone call was placed to authorities by someone claiming to be from the ETA who threatened to use the devices.The Ontario Press Council has dismissed claims that the recording of Canadian Constable Garrett Styles' last words breached journalistic ethics. Records show that while Constable Styles lay pinned under a minivan, he made a distress call, just moments before his death in June.Both the Toronto Star and The Globe and Mail were subject to complaint up until today but the press council's executive director, Don McCurdy, said there would be no public hearing. "It is the view of the council that neither the Star nor the Globe overstepped the boundaries of journalistic ethics," McCurdy said. "The council found the coverage served to highlight the courage and concern Const. Styles exhibited when he asked for emergency aid for those in the van as his life slipped away."The council sent a letter to York Regional Police Chief Eric Jolliffe, explaining their decision. Chief Jolliffe had made his complaint about three articles written by the two publications, saying it was a breach of ethics and could have jeopardised an investigation into the officer's death. "I am, quite frankly, appalled that the media would post these audio recordings in a such a callous fashion," he said. "I can only imagine the additional anguish that has been inflicted upon his family."Ontario Press Council says note was also taken of the fact the transmissions were public, and had already been made available on a website.During the incident, Constable Styles had pulled over a minivan, containing four occupants, on June 28 on a rural road east of Newmarket, Ontario. The van attempted to drive off but dragged Styles 300m before the driver lost control, rolling the van and trapping Styles underneath. A 15 year-old boy, who was paralysed in the crash, has been charged with first degree murder. The Canadian Broadcast Standards Council is yet to act on Jolliffe's complaint against private broadcasters who aired the actual transmissions.On June 14 the European Court of Justice awarded a partial victory to Finland in a case in which the European Commission alleged that Finland was issuing licenses to hunt wolves in a manner contradictory to rules laid down by the Commission, partly dismissing the commission's case. The case was initially filed in 2005. Crucially, Finland's wolf management plan will not be changed as a result of the decision.The court said that the commission had not proved that Finland was issuing the licenses in a manner that threatened the survival of the country's wolf population, estimated at around 250, and Finland themselves claim the number of Finnish wolves has recently doubled.The court ruled that despite two cases where Finland was found to be in the wrong, this did not amount to "constant and general administrative practice amounting to a breach." Finland had issued the licenses on a preventative basis, but EU regulations state that there must be proof of damage or other danger which can only be solved by killing the animal(s) involved, and thus Finland was breaching the Habitats Directive.The court ruled that both sides should pay their own legal costs as both had failed in at least one of their claims."The European Court of Justice ratifies the main lines of the wolf population management plan," the Finnish agriculture ministry said. "When planning future wolf policy in Finland, the ministry will take note of the court of justices decision on the wolf and the grounds for it".However, the ministry also said that it would still issue permits to prevent "very significant loss or damage" providing a survey no more than a year old showed that hunting could actually prevent this loss or damage."The crucial point of the decision is that the current system, based on hunting permits granted by the game management districts, is not contrary to the habitats directive," the ministry said in a statement."The game management districts can continue to grant permits to hunt wolf within the limits laid down by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry."Bill Gates's Microsoft could be fined as much as 5.0% of its daily income, roughly US$ 5 million per day according to Wall Street Journal calculatations, if it does not comply with demands set by the European Commission. The commission investigated Microsoft's practice of bundling the Windows Media Player software into the Windows operating system in 2003-2004, a practice which rivals complained was destroying the market for their own products. The Wall Street Journal reported Monday a week ago that the European Commission would decide their course of action in two weeks time.Negotiations between Microsoft and the Commission broke down in March 2004 and the company was subsequently fined a record €497 million (US$ 613 million) for its breaches of EU competition law.The ruling is subject to appeal, but a European Court decided in Dec 2004 that fines imposed on Microsoft by the EU would not be delayed. Microsoft paid the €497 million fine and must now ship versions of Windows without Windows Media Player. It was also decided by the EU court that Microsoft must license many of the protocols used in its products to developers in countries within the European Economic Area.The European Commission rejected today a proposal by Microsoft to license its workgroup server software protocols. These protocols would allow programmers to build server programs that are compatible with systems and PCs running the Windows operating system. Influencing the decision were complaints from the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSF Europe), which said the per-server licensing proposal violated the principle that the protocols could be used to develop free software, because there is no way of knowing how many servers will be using free software."Microsoft either doesn't understand or doesn't want to understand the idea of free software," said FSF Europe spokesman Joachim Jakobs. Jakobs explained that as free software is freely distributed, it is impossible to predict the extent of its use. Also, authors of free software would encounter copyright issues with Microsoft when using the protocols to distribute their software. Microsoft stated last Friday that it is still trying to find the balance between the need to preserve the private interests of Microsoft and the public interests.Earlier, the European Commission rejected Microsoft's proposal to release the new Windows Media Player-free version of Windows under the name "Reduced Media Edition." Microsoft is now investigating other names suggested by the Commission. It is still unclear whether a deadline is or will be set for the demands by the EU.The European Union has warned the UK government that it does not do enough to protect its citizens' online privacy and personal data. Now the EU has moved to the next stage of legal action, which could see Britain taken to court.The warning follows complaints over the Phorm company's targeted advertising system. The controversial technology is designed to track the activities of internet users, and was tested on some BT customers without their consent. Campaigners complained to various bodies including the UK's data protection agency, and the communications regulator Ofcom. No action was taken. The City of London police began an investigation, but this was soon dropped.The EU Commission formally warned Britain that it was not meeting EU rules in April. Other countries that have been warned include Germany, Poland and Romania. However, last week the Commission moved onto the second stage of the infringement procedure against the UK, with a letter to the government.The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA) has been particularly criticised by the Commission for its weak definition of "consent" and its limited sanctions. The Commission also found that there was no independent body to oversee and hear complaints about communications interception. Overall, the letter says that the UK fails to comply with the EU's Data Protection Directive and e-Privacy Directive."People's privacy and the integrity of their personal data in the digital world is not only an important matter: it is a fundamental right, protected by European law," the EU's Information Commissioner Viviane Reding said in a statement on Thursday. "I therefore call on the UK authorities to change their national laws to ensure that British citizens fully benefit from the safeguards set out in EU law concerning confidentiality of electronic communications."The Home Office confirmed that it had received the letter, but has so far not responded. Ministers said that they would reply to the letter after they have taken some time to consider it. The Home Office has two months to reply, and if the Commission is not satisfied with the response, then Britain could face charges in the European Court of Justice.The European Union has maintained its ban on all 51 of Indonesia's airlines on the grounds of safety concerns. The Indonesian foreign ministry, which had earlier believed its plan to "fast-track" safety improvements for three airlines would see them back in the EU by July's end, suggested that the ban may have political overtones.Indonesia had implemented a program to bring state-owned flag carrier Garuda Indonesia up to EU standards, as well as private rivals Mandala Airlines and Airfast. This received a boost in May when Garuda passed a safety audit by the International Air Transport Association."Indonesian authorities have still not developed and implemented an efficient oversight program on any of the carriers under their regulatory control," said the EU's Air Safety Committee upon rejection of the three airlines' request for permission to return to the EU. It was added that Indonesia had no effective oversight program and that the International Civil Aviation Organisation had been unable to assess recent changes. The committee also noted that inspectors did not have the power to ground substandard aircraft and urged Indonesia to increase inspections themselves. A report from the Indonesian director-general of civil aviation said that, between January and April, Garuda performed just nine of 56 mandatory surveys, while Mandala conducted only two out of 27.The committee acknowledged some improvement by the three airlines, but was unanimous in rejecting their request to have the ban lifted.Teuku Faizasyah, spokesman for the Indonesian foreign ministry, expressed disappointment at the result and questioned the reasoning behind it. "We are disappointed with the prolonging of the ban. We've done some improvements so we do hope that those actions taken could be considered," he told reporters. "The way we see it, the EU always puts their actions (in terms of) technicality issues. But we question if there are political motivations behind the decision."The ban was implemented in 2007 following deregulation in the 1990s that triggered a string of aviation accidents. On New Year's Day 2007, 102 people were killed when an Adam Air Boeing 737 crashed into the ocean near Sulawesi. This was followed in March by a Garuda 737 overshooting the runway at Yogyakarta Internataional Airport with 21 fatalities.Adam Air has since been grounded, while on Thursday Captain Marwoto Komar, pilot of the Garuda jet, went on trial charged with a range of possible offences, the most serious of which could see him imprisoned for life.Officials arrested 41 people from five countries Sunday in connection with a trans-European money laundering operation. The individuals are suspected in laundering US$300 million in gang-related activities such as prostitution, murder, and arms and drug trafficking, according to police with Interpol and Europol.The BBC reported citizens of Spain, France, Finland, Russia, and Ukraine were among those arrested and charged with illegally siphoning money from Yukos, a large Russian oil company. Yukos maintains it was unaware of such activities.The crackdown went by code name Operation White Whale and was a joint effort between Spain and Russia, officials said. The arrests were centered in the Costa del Sol area of Spain's southern Mediterranean coast.On Thursday the European Commission threatened to fine Microsoft €2 Million per day if the corporation does not comply with a ruling made in March 2004, stating that Microsoft must provide interoperability with its protocols and other competing services. Microsoft has until January 25, 2006 to respond to the charges, and may also be fined for days after December 15, 2005 as well.The European Commission says Microsoft has failed to comply with an order to supply competitors with "interoperability information" for the protocols implemented in Windows Server operating systems. These include those used to "deliver fileand print services and group and user administration services, including the WindowsDomain Controller services, Active Directory services and Group Policy services" according to page 299 of the European Commission's decision. Microsoft argues that to do this breaches its intellectual property rights as it would be opening Windows Server up for cloning. It has previously appealed to the European Court of First Instance, a bid which failed and where Microsoft was given until December 15, 2005 to comply with the original decision. Microsoft has launched a second appeal attempt.The decision in March 2004 also forced Microsoft to provide a version of Windows XP without the eponymous Windows Media Player and to pay fines of €497 million (US$586 million).The European Court of Human Rights has ruled on a case brought by a Muslim student of Istanbul university.  The ruling upholds the law in Turkey that bans the wearing of headscarves in universities and public offices.Leyla Sahin brought her case to the court in 1998 after being excluded from classes for wearing an Islamic headscarf.  She contended that the ban discriminated against her and denied her right to an education.The court ruled that Turkish law was consistent with the European Convention on Human Rights and with the protection of women's rights in general.The ban was reasonable as a measure to help maintain Turkey as secular society, the court ruled.  It argued: "When examining the question of the Islamic headscarf in the Turkish context, there had to be borne in mind the impact which wearing such a symbol, which was presented or perceived as a compulsory religious duty, may have on those who chose not to wear it."The ruling will impact over 1,000 other similar cases brought by Muslim women in the country.The European Union's executive body, the European Commission, has started investigating web search giant Google over anti-trust allegations by price comparison service Foundem and French legal services website ejustice.fr. At stake are allegations that Google's AdWords results are manipulated to prioritise certain advertisers.The complainants allege price comparison sites receive a lower 'quality score', thus being knocked out of fully automated, unpaid-for results; or, being required to pay more for advertising through the search giant's AdWords program. Google rejects Foundem's allegations, arguing the majority of content on price comparison sites is duplicated from other sites, asserting Foundem "duplicates 79% of its website content from other sites, thus adding no value." The company line is, "[w]e have consistently informed webmasters that our algorithms disadvantage duplicate sites".The European Commission has a history of carrying out anti-trust investigations involving technology companies. Microsoft was ordered to pay substantial penalties for 'bundling' Windows with their Media Player; and, within the EU, must distribute a version of Windows that does not have said bundled software. A similar battle was fought over the automatic inclusion of Internet Explorer with their operating systems.Google has previously been the subject of anti-trust allegations and investigations. United States authorities blocked Google from buying Yahoo!, citing concerns over a near-monopoly in search; Google's purchase of mobile advertising company AdMob was also subject to anti-trust scrutiny by the US prior to being allowed to go ahead.An international court in Strasbourg issued a ruling yesterday that powers allowing UK police to stop and search anyone without reason are in breach of European law. The European Court of Human Rights deemed powers contained in the Terrorism Act 2000 denied the human right of privacy.Under the European Convention of Human Rights people in the UK are granted the right to privacy, although their government felt that the threat of terrorism meant that the breach of this was justifiable and allowable under exemptions in the Convention. Previously, the powers have been unsuccessfully challenged before the English and Welsh High Court, upheld by those nations' Court of Appeals and finally upheld again before the UK's House of Lords.Section 44 of the Terrorism Act allows the Home Secretary to designate an area for use of the powers for a certain period. If this period was more than a month then at the end of the month then the Home Secretary can renew them. The entirety of Greater London has spent several years with the powers in effect. Under the Act, the police do not need to have any reason to search whoever they like and have the power to confiscate articles they believe to be of use to terrorists. They can also make arrests if these are found.Yesterday's ruling was made in a case brought by Kevin Gillan and Pennie Quinton, both stopped outside a military exhibition in London's Docklands area. Gillan was stopped while cycling past and kept there for twenty minutes while journalist Quinton was ordered to stop filming even after showing her press card. She claims to have been detained for roughly thirty minutes at the scene, while police claim she was there for five minutes. The court awarded €33,850 (£30,400) to cover the costs incurred by bringing the case.UK Home Secretary Alan Johnson expressed disappointment at the ruling and stated that an appeal will be launched. Chief Constable Craig Mackey of the Association of Chief Police Officers said that while this appeal was pending Section 44 of the Act would continue to be used  by police.The court found that the humiliation and embarrassment of searching  people in public was a clear breach of privacy as well as criticising that the way power was authorised did not require a test that its use be "necessary," merely "expedient." The court singled out London's designation under the Act as an area where the powers could be used continuously since it became law as an example of why this was not appropriate.Further criticism in the ruling was aimed at the idea that the decision to search could be "based exclusively on the 'hunch' or 'professional intuition' of the police officer". The judgement added that "the absence of any obligation on the part of the officer to show a reasonable suspicion made it almost impossible to prove that the power had been improperly exercised," with no judicial oversight. Racism was a further concern, with the court expressing a fear that the powers could easily be used in a discrimminatory manner. Four times as many blacks and Asians have been searched compared to whites.The European Court of Human Rights has awarded €2500 to Abu Qatada, an Islamic militant and cleric, in a lawsuit he filed against the United Kingdom which detained him without trial in 2002.Qatada, who is facing extradition to Jordan to serve a life sentence for terrorism charges, and 10 others were detained under Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001. This act allowed foreign nationals suspected of terrorism to be detained, before being repealed in 2004 due to its discriminatory nature. The ECHR's ruling determined the decision to detain Qatada under this law breached the 'right to liberty and security' secured in the European Convention of Human Rights.The British government claimed they believed the people detained were "a threat to our national security."Some British politicians also objected to paying compensation to people believed to be terrorists.Matthew Elliot, a lobbyist for the Taxpayers' Alliance, argued: "This man hates everything Britain stands for, so it is disgusting that ordinary taxpayers are now forced to pay him thousands of pounds."Chris Grayling, the shadow home secretary commented: "This decision will horrify most reasonable people in the UK … it makes a mockery of the concept of human rights if we can't protect ourselves against people who are out to destroy our society."The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has ruled bans upon incest do not breach the European Convention on Human Rights, and a German man's conviction can stand.Patrick Stuebing was put in an orphanage three years after his 1976 birth and did not meet his biological sister Susan Karolewski until their mother's death in 2000. The brother and sister began a sexual relationship early in 2001 that lasted until 2005, when Stuebing was convicted of incest. Karolewski escaped conviction owing to a personality disorder deemed to reduce her culpability.Stuebing, who served time in prison, claimed this amounted to a breach of his right to a family and private life. The court disagreed, noting "the protection of marriage and the family" and "the risk of significant [genetic] damage" to offspring as reasons for the ban.Stuebing and Karolewski have four children, three of whom are in care and two of whom are disabled. It was argued in court that similarly risky situations, such as older women giving birth or parents who are themselves disabled, are entirely lawful.According the European Court of Justice (ECJ), the supreme court of European Union, the EU laws do not oblige ISPs to hand over personal data of people suspected of illegal sharing of copyrighted materials over the net.The ECJ has been asked for a preliminary ruling on question "Does Community law...permit Member States to limit the duty of operators of electronic communications networks and services, providers of telecommunications network access and providers of data storage services to retain and make available connection and traffic information generated during the supply of an information society service to where it is required in connection with a criminal investigation or the need to protect public safety and national defence, thus excluding civil proceedings?" And its opinion, presented by advocate general Juliane Kokott, is that member states are allowed to 'exclude' revealing personal data on internet traffic in civil cases. This does not apply to criminal cases, where such compliance would be required.On Thursday, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) — the supreme court on matters of European Union (EU) law — ruled in regard to the case "Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek vs. Facebook Ireland Limited". The Luxembourg-based court issued a judgement favorable to the plaintiff, Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, a politician in Austria, allowing an Austrian court to require social media site Facebook to remove a post from its site made by a user in Ireland. The ruling made proclamations which analysts say could have far-reaching implications for regulation of content on the Internet beyond the borders of the EU. The court's decision cannot be appealed.In 2016, a Facebook user registered from Ireland shared publicly a news article from the Austrian news site oe24.at along with some comments of their own. The post, which was about Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, the then chair and spokesperson for The Greens, could potentially be seen by anyone with access to Facebook. The comments called her political party facsist and termed her a "corrupt oaf" and a "lousy traitor".Glawischnig-Piesczek sued in Austria for defamation and won. Facebook was ordered to remove the post which it did by making it unavailable to view in Austria only. This apparently did not appease Glawischnig-Piesczek. As a result, the Supreme Court of Justice (Oberster Gerichtshof ) of Austria brought the case before the ECJ, asking for clarifications of EU law.The EU law Electronic Commerce Directive 2000 provides liability protections for hosting sites. In its finding, the ECJ set rules for compliance with rulings from a court from any EU member nation for any website which hosts user content: By today’s judgment, the Court of Justice answers the Oberster Gerichtshof that the Directive on electronic commerce, which seeks  to  strike a balance between the different  interests  at stake, does not preclude a court of a Member State from ordering a host provider:to remove information which it stores, the content of  which  is identical to the content of information which was previously declared to be unlawful, or to block access to that information, irrespective of who requested the storage of that information;to remove information which it stores, the content of  which is equivalent to the content of information which was previously  declared  to  be  unlawful, or to block access to that information, provided that the monitoring of and search for the information concerned by such an  injunction are limited to information conveying a message the content of which remains essentially unchanged compared  with the content which gave rise to the  finding of illegality and containing the elements specified in the injunction, and provided that the differences in the wording of that equivalent content, compared with the wording characterising the information which was  previously declared to be illegal, are not such as to require the host provider to carry out an  independent assessment of that content (thus, the host provider may have recourse to automated search tools and technologies);to remove information covered by the  injunction or to block access to that information worldwide within the framework of the relevant  international  law, and it is up to Member States to take that law into account. – European Court of JusticeAccording to the ruling, a host, such as Facebook, must remove the original post as well as re-posts and posts which state essentially the same thing if it is deemed against the law. Steve Peers of the University of Essex, speaking to BBC, said, "If there's a court order to say that someone's been defamed, then Facebook has to also search for different variations of it", also observing, "[t]here's no harmonised defamation law internationally".Jennifer Daskal of American University and contributor to Slate wrote, "a single EU country (in this case Austria) could demand an online provider (in this case Facebook) to take down an objectionable post, monitor its site for equivalent content, and take down those postings as well. And it says a country could do so on a global scale, regardless of where the poster or the viewer is located. In so ruling, the court demonstrated a shocking ignorance of the technology involved and set the stage for the most censor-prone country to set global speech rules."Facebook released a statement which read, in part, "This judgment raises critical questions around freedom of expression and the role that internet companies should play in monitoring, interpreting and removing speech that might be illegal in any particular country". Facebook further claimed, "It undermines the long-standing principle that one country does not have the right to impose its laws on speech on another country".On September 21st, the Court of First Instance of the Court of Justice of the European Communities ruled that decisions of the United Nations Security Council take precedence over national constitutions, European law and even the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR). Observers claim that this ruling undermines the rule of law and the principles of the constitutional state.In their verdict in the case of Ahmed Ali Yusuf, a Swede of Arab origin whose funds had been frozen in November 2001 by the European authorities after a Sanctions Committee of the UN Security Council had put him on a list of alleged terrorists, the five judges state that:“the right of access to the courts, a principle recognised by both Article 8 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 16 December 1966, is not absolute.”The Court holds that even organisations (like the European Union) that are not members of the United Nations are bound by decisions of the UN Security Council.The lawyer of the convicted:"[The verdict] is completely unacceptable [and] raises questions about the EU’s position as regards the rule of law.”" Ahmed Ali Yusuf says he will appeal to the European Court of Justice.Today, leaders from the nations of the European Union signed the landmark Treaty of Lisbon which is to redefine foreign policy for the EU and creates an EU president. The treaty is a replacement for the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe which was abandoned after suffering defeats in referendums in France and the Netherlands."From this old continent, a new Europe is born," said European Commission President José Manuel Barroso. "For the first time, the countries that were once divided by a totalitarian curtain, are now united in support of a common treaty that they had themselves negotiated."The President of France, Nicolas Sarkozy said to reporters: "Europe was blocked, without knowing how to move forward and we found the solution with this treaty."United Kingdom Prime Minister Gordon Brown did not attend, and David Miliband signed the treaty in his stead. "This is a day for Europe to look to the future.," Miliband said.Citing prior obligations for his failure to be in Lisbon, Brown added his signature later after appearing before the House of Commons Liaison Committee in the morning. Critics have claimed he does "not have the guts" to sign and is trying to avoid the political liability of having his name on the document.Speaking at the ceremony, Portuguese Prime Minister José Sócrates said, "This was the European project that many generations dreamt of and others before us championed, with a vision of the future."From here, each country will have to ratify the treaty. Most countries will probably not hold referendums on the treaty as voters would be likely to reject the treaty; some leaders have committed to hold referendums, but are attempting to avoid doing so for similar reasons.Families who were evacuated in Bristol, United Kingdom have been allowed to return home. This move by the police comes two days later than that reported by the BBC.Avon and Somerset police recently released a statement on this issue, part of which is available below:This move comes after Avon and Somerset police arrested a man in the Westbury on Trym area of the city on suspicion of terrorism.Evangelist Kent Hovind and his wife, Jo, was found guilty on all counts of tax fraud concerning merchandise and amusement park admission sales. The trial began at United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida on Tuesday October 18, 2006, and prosecutors rested their case against Hovind on November 1. Defense lawyers rested their case on the same day without presenting evidence or calling witnesses; Hovind claims that he runs a church, and thus should not have to pay taxes, while prosecutors claimed that he was actually running a business.Evangelist Kent Hovind and his wife, Jo, are trying to convince a federal jury that their money from video and amusement park admission sales belong to God and cannot be taxed. The trial began at United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida on Tuesday October 18, 2006 after twelve jury members and two alternates were selected to decide on the 58 federal courts against Hovind and his wife. The trial was expected to take at least two weeks to complete with the prosecution hoping to rest its case Tuesday, but a defense attorney became ill and the Judge delayed the trial until October 30th.Hovind is a Young Earth creationist who does many speaking engagements and debates. He also sells videos giving a pro-creationism perspective, which he receives income for. Hovind, who calls himself "Dr. Dino", received a Ph.D in "Christian education" from the unaccredited correspondence school Patriot Bible University in 1991.A Baptist evangelist minister and critic of Islam was arrested Wednesday and charged with first degree attempted arson for allegedly burning tax records of his religious organization in an attempt to set his building on fire. Anis Shorrosh, 75, of Daphne, Alabama, was arrested after a fire was discovered Tuesday night in the trash room of the Loma Alta Towers condominium where he lives. 50 residents had to be evacuated from the building, but no one was hurt.After a burning plastic garbage container set off the alarm, one of the building residents put out the fire using a fire extinguisher. Law enforcement are still investigating the incident, and are not yet certain why the tax records were set on fire.According to local police, members of the condo owners association had signed a warrant on Monday, accusing Shorrosh of criminal mischief for allegedly tampering with the security system of his building. "He had gotten frustrated with the security system, and he took a hammer to it," said Police Lieutenant Jud Beedy.Lt. Beedy said that if the fire had gotten worse than it was, there could have been injuries or deaths, saying "He endangered a lot of people." According to Lt. Beedy, building security cameras caught Shorrosh on camera entering and exiting the trash room of the building. Police Chief David Carpenter told WKRG News 5, the CBS affiliate in Mobile, that Shorrosh used an accelerant to start the fire, in what police believe was an attempt to burn the building down.Shorrosh is in custody on a US$25,000 bond. He has spoken critically to Christian organizations and radio programs about Islam, and has claimed that Muslims in South Africa thrice attempted to kill him in 1989.Shorrosh has appeared opposite Muslims in debates between Islam and Christianity, and is the author of 10 books including Islam: a Threat or a Challenge, and Islam Revealed. In 2006, the United States government issued a disclaimer denying that the book The True Quran, written by Shorrosh, was a "new American Quran". The U.S. government stated that the book was Shorrosh's attempt to convert Muslims to Christianity.Shorrosh is a Palestinian Arab, and according to his website www.islam-in-focus.com he was born in the town of Nazareth. Nazareth is home to many of Israel's Arab citizens and is also a Christian pilgrimage center, as a historical location described in the New Testament as the boyhood home of Jesus Christ.The Chicago, Illinois area Haven Middle School in Evanston was evacuated today after school officials received a call about a bomb threat. At around 12:30 PM, the junior-high school was evacuated, with the over 600 students being taken to the nearby Kingsley Elementary School. The middle schoolers, who are in the age range of 11–14, remained at Kingsley until around 2:30PM. Police searched the school and did not find any bombs.School resumed after the "all clear" signal from police, and classes will be in session on Thursday.The Haven bomb threat comes a week after a headless body with a pipe bomb was found near Nichols Middle School, which is also in Evanston. Last Friday, a bomb threat was detected at Evanston's Evanston Township High School. The bomb threat had been scribbled on toilet paper. The high school was evacuated and police searched the school, later deciding that the threat was a false one.An eviction notice has been served on the occupiers remaining in the Vestas factory in Newport, Isle of Wight, England, occupiers confirm. The eviction notice states that police will remove the occupiers at noon BST tomorrow, August 7.The occupiers of the Vestas factory have pledged to go peacefully when the police enter. Only six occupiers are believed to remain in the building, of the original 25. "Mike", speaking from inside the occupation, said that the six remaining workers have no plans to leave until the police enter the factory, but also noted that protesters gathered outside the factory will try to stop them, without physical confrontation. "We're getting everyone in town down here — workers, family, trade union members."While the occupiers remain short of food, Mike describes their situation as "fine. We're used to it now."Mike expressed hope that police and the law would treat them leniently, as took place at the end of the Thomas Cook occupation in Dublin, Ireland earlier this week. The police have been "very friendly. We can't fault them" noted Mike, who pointed out that occupiers leaving the factory have not even been cautioned. After the eviction takes place the occupiers plan to continue fighting the company, first joining the demonstrators and then speaking around the country. "We will carry on even when we are taken out of here. We will continue to fight this. We aren't just going to give up."The occupiers, all employees of Vestas, began their sit-in on July 20 after Vestas announced plans to shut down production of wind turbines in Northern Europe, at the cost of 575 jobs in Newport and over 1400 jobs elsewhere in England and in Denmark. Mike says that other wind turbine companies have invited the Vestas Newport employees to apply for jobs at their locations, but those factories are in other parts of England or Europe and would require the workers to relocate.The Indian National Security Advisor M K Narayanan has said that India doesn't have "clinching" evidence of the involvement of Pakistan's intelligence agency, the ISI in the Mumbai train blasts of July 11, which killed 207 people and injured several hundred more. "I would hesitate to say we have clinching evidence but we have pretty good evidence," he was quoted as saying on CNN-IBN.This statement from a high-ranking Indian official goes against the assertion of the Anti-Terror Squad chief KP Raghuvanshi on October 1 that there was enough evidence "to nail ISI" in the blasts. Following Narayanan's remarks, the Union Home Secretary V.K. Duggal on Monday characterised the evidence as "very good [...] it is fairly solid evidence."According to Narayanan, India has information related to connectivity, linkages, confessions and arrests, but there are pieces of puzzle that are not available.The statement from the security advisor to the Prime Minister reveals that India is yet to complete the investigation, although the Mumbai police had given the impression otherwise.On Friday, anonymous threats were sent to the evolutionary biology labs at the University of Colorado at Boulder by email and workers returned to their labs Monday morning to find threatening messages slipped under their doors. The threats mention a group affiliated with creationism, but police did not release the name of the group as it is still investigating if the threats were sent by them.Currently, the University of Colorado police are not providing further details as they investigate the threats. Police have in the meantime increased patrols around the campus and threatened buildings. Although the United States has had vigorous debate over the Creation-evolution controversy to date there have been no serious violent incidents, aside from an attack on Paul Mirecki, a professor at the University of Kansas, in 2005.Radovan Karadzic, the wartime ex-Bosnian Serb leader, told judges in The Hague, Netherlands earlier today that alleged atrocities of the Serbian 1992–95 war were "myths," and denied having had any involvement.In comments to the court, Karadzic said that murder of seven thousand Muslims in Srebrenica, as well as the siege in Sarajevo, was staged or made up in order to demean the Serbs.Karadzic, aged 64, has been charged with eleven counts of crimes against humanity, war crimes, and genocide. He is accused of being behind the Sarajevo siege, when the city was shelled for 44 months.The former leader described the deaths of the Sarajevo residents as being part of "cunning strategy" by Bosnian Muslims to bring in "foreign troops and foreign intervention", saying that "they shelled their own people and killed their own people from snipers.""It is going to be easy from me to prove that I had nothing to do with it," Karadzic said.Reaction from survivors of Srebrenica was indignant, according to reports. "He should be given the Nobel Prize for lying," remarked Sabra Kolenovic of the Mothers of Srebrenica.Bruce McCaffrey, who was formerly the vice-president in charge of freight operations in the United States for Australian flag carrier Qantas, has been sentenced to eight months imprisonment and fined US$21,000 by the US Department of Justice (DoJ) for his involvement in a major air cargo price fixing cartel.McCaffrey is one of six past and present employees of the airline who have been charged over the arrangement, which is thought to have run for six years starting in 2000. He is also the first individual to be sentenced regarding the cartel. He, as well as Stephen Cleary, group general manager for freight in Sydney, Harold Pang, general manager for freight sales in Singapore, Peter Frampton, former group general manager for freight, John Cooper former general manager for freight sales and Desmond Church, a former freight employee, were all charged after being exempt from immunity granted in a plea bargain by Qantas in which the airline paid a US$61 million fine. In Australia price fixing is not actually a criminal offense, so former head of freight Peter Frampton and three other staff members in Australia will not be extradited to face charges. Meanwhile, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission is seeking admittances of guilt from airlines whose operations fall under its jurisdiction in exchange for lighter penalties. Qantas is amongst those airlines.The cartel, which prevented competition in air freight shipments rates, is said to involve almost thirty airlines. As well as Qantas, Japan Airlines, British Airways, Korean Air and Lufthansa have all had their involvement confirmed. Whistleblower Lufthansa, a German airline, was granted immunity from prosecution in exchange for exposing the operation. In August, British Airways and Korean Air pled guilty to their involvement and received fines of US$300 million each. Last month Japan Airlines also admitted to their role and paid a US$110 million fine. Amongst the others alleged to be involved are Air New Zealand, Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific. Hundreds of Australian businesses are involved in a class action suit against these seven airlines for AU$200 million that they believe was unfairly charged to them as a result of criminal activity.McCarthy, who ran Qantas's Australia-US cargo route for twenty years, entered a plea bargain with the authorities. Under the US Sherman Act he could have faced up to a US$1.06 million fine and up to 10 years imprisonment, but the DoJ says that the maximum fine could actually be double the gain from the offences committed or double the loss of those victimised if either were found to be higher than the normal maximum. According to the case, he was involved with "meetings, conversations and communications in the US and elsewhere to discuss the cargo rates to be charged on certain routes to and from the US".In light of the news, shares in Qantas fell 3¢ to AU$3.41.Clare Short, the United Kingdom's then-Secretary of State for International Development, appeared before the Iraq Inquiry yesterday, and told the panel that the Cabinet was "misled" about the Iraq War's legality prior to the 2003 invasion. The three-hour session was held in the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre in London's City of Westminster.Short, an outspoken critic of the war, retired from the cabinet to become an independent MP two months before the invasion. She claimed to have been "conned" into staying on despite her doubts about the war and told the inquiry that the Cabinet, of which she was a part, was not a "decision-making body", and that Parliament was simply a "rubber stamp".Former Roman Catholic priest Paul Shanley was sentenced to 12-15 years in prison on Tuesday, February 15, 2005. The sentencing occurred at Middlesex Superior Court in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. Shanley was recently convicted of multiple counts of child rape and indecent assault and battery against a child.Shanley's conviction is part of the aftermath of what the Boston Globe called a series of "brutally damaging revelations about scores of priests who over a period of decades had kept their jobs despite raping, molesting, and groping children and adolescents." The revelations culminated in the resignation of Cardinal Bernard F. Law, leader of the Archdiocese of Boston on December 13, 2002.A former US soldier has been sentenced to life in prison for raping a teen and murdering her and her family while on active duty in Iraq. The jury failed to reach the unanimous verdict required for the death penalty sought by the prosecution.According to testimony given by two soldiers, Steven Dale Green was part of a group who decided they wanted to rape a girl they had seen walking through her village, 14-year-old Abeer Qassim al-Janabi. They walked to her house while disguised as insurgents and separated her from her parents and younger sister.Green then shot dead Abeer's family while two other soldiers raped the girl. He then raped her himself while she wept before covering her face with a pillow and fatally shooting her. The gang then covered her naked body with a blanket soaked in kerosene, using a lighter to start a fire before walking 200 yards to a nearby checkpoint where they cooked a meal.Green had already been discharged from the army when his crimes were discovered. He had previously spoken of a desire to murder Iraqi civilians and his defence argued he should never have been allowed to return to duty. A nurse had decided he would not carry out his desires. A US civilian court tried him, the first such prosecution of a soldier under a law allowing servicemen to be charged with crimes carried out abroad.The judge described his actions as "unimaginable, unjustified and inexcusable" and sentenced him to five consecutive life sentences without possibility of parole. Four others had already been sentenced. Three are all serving life with parole after ten years, and a fourth who acted as a lookout is serving a 27-month sentence.It took months for the offences to be discovered, even though Green had quickly confessed to a sergeant.  Soldiers speaking to stress counsellors talked of the crimes after the abduction and murders of two other soldiers.  When news of the soldiers' actions broke, insurgents killed several American servicemen in revenge.The prosecution described Green as "criminal and perverse" while the defence called him a "broken warrior." Green said he was acting upon orders from former Specialist Paul Cortez, another of the attackers, and told the court "Y'all can act like I'm a psychopath or a sexual predator or whatever. But if I had never gone to Iraq I would never have got caught up in anything like this."A federal jury found Bernard Ebbers guilty of all nine counts in the indictment brought against him. The verdict was handed down by a New York jury after 8 days of deliberation on the former WorldCom CEO and mastermind behind the accounting scandal that brought down the telcom giant. AP writer Erin McClam reports, "Ebbers' face reddened.", as the verdict was read. Sentencing is set for June 13 when he will face up to 85 years in prison.Ebbers testified in his own defence, saying he left the details of the company's accounting to others and that he had no knowledge of shady practices. But Scott Sullivan, ex-chief financial officer and key prosecution witness, directly linked Ebbers to the fraud. He had agreed to co-operate with prosecutors in the hopes of receiving a lenient sentence for his own involvement in the fraud.The demise of WordCom sparked a massive class action law suit by investors. The drastic plunge of WorldCom's stock value cost upwards to $11 billion as the scandal unravelled. Secuities fraud case filings stemming from the suits will probably break new legal ground whereby the actions of investment banks and public accounting firms will be called into legal question.Wikinews held an exclusive interview with former high-ranking Scientology executive Mark Rathbun on his new book The Scientology Reformation: What Every Scientologist Should Know. Rathbun examined the close association between actor Tom Cruise and Scientology leader David Miscavige. Before leaving the organization led by Miscavige, Rathbun served as Inspector General of the Religious Technology Center within Scientology. He currently practices the teachings of Scientology and its founder L. Ron Hubbard independently of the organization managed by David Miscavige.International controversy erupted after Iranian officials executed two gay teenagers who were originally reported to be convicted of homosexuality, however later reports released by the Iranian government after international furor claimed the conviction was for the rape of a 13-year-old boy. The two were hanged July 19.Only the age of one of the two executed teens was officially released to the public. He was 18 year old Ayaz Marhoni. The other, Mahmoud Asgari, according to the Iranian Student's News Agency (ISNA) was aged 17, but other news agencies have reported the teenager's age as 16. In the original report by the ISNA it was said that the two were found having sex together when they were both 16. It also reported that they were held and beaten for fourteen months before the execution. The UK-based gay rights group, Outrage! claims the report issued later by the government of Iran is a "smokescreen" to justify killing homosexuals. And one media outlet, Direland, has blasted the media holdings of Rupert Murdoch that includes  Fox News Channel and The Times newspaper for publishing the subsequent Iranian government issued allegation of rape as matter of fact without mention of the previous stories before international condemnation bearing no such accusations.According to Iranian newspapers, the two boys were given 228 lashes for their other convictions of theft, disrupting public order and public drinking before they were hanged in Edalat ("Justice" in English) Square in the Iranian city of Mashhad. The executioners, fearing reprisals, wore masks and anti-riot forces were mobilized to prevent outbreaks of public protests. Photos of the execution released by Iranian Students News Agency showed the two teens crying in the truck driving them to the gallows in Justice Square, located in the northeastern region of the country.A new intelligent design creationist movie, Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed, starring Ben Stein, is scheduled to debut April 18, but several different sources have accused the film's producer of copyright violations. Though the movie has been criticized by Dr. Richard Dawkins, Dr. PZ Myers, and Dr. Eugenie Scott, who said they were tricked into appearing in the film, as well as from movie critics and scientists, the legal issues might develop into trouble for the producers.On April 9, a cease-and-desist letter was sent to the producers of Expelled, alleging that the appearance in the film of an identical copy of XVIVO's video entitled The Inner Life of the Cell, which was created in partnership with Harvard University, infringed on XVIVO/Harvard's property. Shortly after, a letter was sent by David Bolinsky of XVIVO who wrote that Expelled's misuse of XVIVO/Harvard's work is harmful to their work.On April 16, the The Wall Street Journal reported that Expelled producers did not receive permission to use John Lennon's "Imagine" from Yoko Ono, who possesses the copyright on the music. At the same time, it was noted that the producer also did not receive permission from The Killers for their song "All these Things That I Have Done." In addition, Myers believes Expelled copied material without permission from WEHI-TV and Public Broadcasting Service's video The Central Dogma: Transcription of DNA to RNA.The topic of the film has also not been without controversy, as the scientific community does not believe intelligent design is valid science. Some scientists have panned the movie as "anti-science." Furthermore, the film received attention a month ago when Myers, who is interviewed and thanked in the film, was asked to leave a free screening of the movie by Mark Mathis, the movie's associate producer. However, Mathis did not notice Dawkins standing in line next to Myers who subsequently saw the film and wrote critically of it.An explosion at a weapons factory in Yemen killed dozens of people yesterday. According to estimates, over one hundred people may have died in the blast.According to the BBC, at least 78 people were killed, while The Independent reported that over one hundred people had been killed. The explosion occurred in the southern town of Ja`ar, located in the province of Abyan.Local media reported that forces loyal to Al-Qaeda had raided the factory on Sunday. They added that residents were forced to gather supplies from the factory, when a cigarette reportedly triggered the explosion.State news agency Saba said that militants had "seized the factory on Sunday and pushed citizens to [loot] its contents, which led to inflaming of gunpowder and explosives in the factory."A local doctor said that "[t]his accident is a true catastrophe, the first of its kind in Abyan. There are so many burned bodies. I can't even describe the situation." An accurate death toll is reportedly difficult to ascertain due to the condition of bodies, many of which have severe burns.A blast is reported to have occurred inside the car park of the Perambra Police station in Kozhikode (Calicut) in the state of Kerala, India. One police officer and a seven-year-old boy have reported to be injured in the incident.The Home minister for state of Kerala Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has ordered a probe to identify the cause of the incident. The police say the explosion originating from bombs that were seized by the police in 2002, which now might have been triggered by the heat. Locals reject this explanation and suspect a cover-up. An explosion last week killed eight in Kozhikode.28 people were killed in an suicide bombing attack outside a police recruitment building at 10am local time (UTC+3) in Baghdad, Iraq. The attack occurred in the centre of a crowd outside the police recruitment building. Most of the dead were police recruits, yet civilians and other serving officers were also injured or killed. At least 57 people were injured in the attack. The death toll is the highest reported incident in Iraq for nearly one month.Insurgents often choose police recruitment centres to attack and this centre, located on Palestine Street, has been previously attacked. In an attempt to prevent such attacks concrete blocks were previously constructed and checkpoints established.According to a nearby police lieutenant there was a demonstration of about 100 oil employees at an intersection between the police recruitment building and the oil ministry. The bomb went off one hour after the demonstration had started and according to some sources the bomber mingled within the crowd. The police believe that there was an accomplice who remotely detonated the bomber. There may have been a second bomb. Some reports suggest that the suicide bomber crashed into the crowds on a motorcycle and detonated a belt or vest of explosives. An eye-witness said that the police started firing weapons "randomly" after the explosion. Pick-up trucks were used to transport the casualties to hospital afterwards.A small explosion blew out the windows of a local cigarette store in Pleasant Hill, California this morning. A police officer was driving by the area at approximately 5:00 a.m., when the explosion occurred. Due to the early morning hour, no one was injured in the blast.  Firefighters responded quickly and the fire was brought under control shortly.  There appears to be fairly little damage to the neighboring store fronts.This is the fourth time in the last year that the store has had arson related troubles.  The owner, Joe Banga, has decided to sell off the store because of this latest attack."I'm done," said Banga, who has owned the store for almost five years. "I'm going to sell it.""The damage is pretty bad," he added. "I have no choice. It's a loss, loss, loss."Police do not know why the store has been repeatedly targeted. According to the owner, there have three other attempts to burn down the store since August 2008."Obviously with these attempts, somebody's trying to get this business burned down. But we haven't found specific reasons," said police lieutenant Jose Delatorre.Thai authorities are searching for a man wearing a yellow T-shirt, recorded on video leaving a backpack shortly before a pipe-bomb exploded two days ago near Erawan Hindu Shrine, Bangkok. The shrine is a popular attraction in Thailand's capital, where at least 20 people, including at least eight foreigners, are reported dead with upwards of 100 injured. The blast occurred at approximately 7pm on Monday local time (1200 UTC), when central Bangkok was flooded with pedestrian activity. Authorities say the suspect may have already left Thailand and was assisted by others.Following months of political unrest, since the explosion the Thai baht hit a six year low. According to Defence Minister Prawit Wonguwan speaking to Reuters, the bombing was a deliberate attack on the country's economy and tourism industry. Military authorities said Muslim insurgents from the country's southern provinces are unlikely to be behind the attack.Eight people were injured in an explosion outside a shopping mall in the Turkish Mediterranean port of Mersin  on Saturday.According to Dogan News Agency, the Governor of Mersin province Huseyin Aksoy said, "The explosion was caused by a remote-controlled bomb … connected to a mobile telephone."  As shown on private news channel CNN Turk, the injured were carried on stretchers to waiting ambulances.  Damages amounted to broken windows in the immediate area.While radical Islamic, Kurdish, and left-wing militants are active in Turkey, there has been no claim of responsibility for the attack.Eleven residents of an apartment building in the Christian neighborhood of New Jdeideh, located in northern Beirut, Lebanon, were injured by an explosion just after midnight local time.The explosion was caused by a bomb placed underneath a car that was parked near the eight-story building inhabited by the injured, and left a seven-foot-deep hole in the ground. The building was ruined by the blast.The Lebanese army responded with a tighter security policy."The army will not allow that freedom of expression be abused in order to harm security and stability," declared the military statement.Lebanese President Émile Lahoud decided not to attend the upcoming Arab summit, and appealed for talks to avoid religious violence."Car bomb messages do not threaten our national unity," said opposition leader Walid Jumblatt, speaking from his mountain palace in Mukhtara.Thirty-five worshippers are confirmed dead and many are injured after an explosion near a mosque in Fatahpur, Pakistan, at 10:30 pm local time (1730 UTC)."I can confirm that 35 bodies have been counted," administrator Mahmood Mari told AFP."It was a powerful bomb. There was blood and body parts everywhere," police official Mehrab Khan, told AP."Right now people are angry. They are wailing and crying. Some of them have blocked roads in the town and we are trying to control the situation," Khan said.The remote town of Fatahpur is located about 300km (180 miles) from Quetta.No one has has claimed responsibility for the attack, according to local officials.The blast caused the largest death toll this year in an area affected by religious conflict and tribal uprisings. Officials have not determined a cause for the blast.One Briton is dead, and dozens of others are injured, after an explosion ripped through a theatre in the Fareek Klaib district of Doha, Qatar this morning."One building at the theatre collapsed. There was pandemonium in the area. It took firefighters some time to put out the fire," said British diplomat Eric Mattey."One person was killed and 12 were wounded, of whom 10 have left hospital," said a statement issued by the Interior Ministry.According to witnesses, about 80 foreigners were in the audience, watching the second act of Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night", at the time of the explosion.Although the US Central Command is located in the Arab Gulf country, the bombing was the first of its kind in Qatar. The theatre is located in the same area where the US embassy was previously located before it was moved to a new location.Three people are dead and five are injured after an explosion tore through a shopping center near the port of Jounie, 20 kilometres north of Beirut, Lebanon. The 45-pound bomb, which was placed under a stairwell, exploded around 1:30am local time (0330 UTC).Police say they believe the bomb was placed there just before the center closed.The blast caused serious damage to the shopping center, breaking windows, causing false ceilings to collapse, and pillars to warp within a radius of several hundred meters."This is the worst type of attack on our city and against our citizens," said Minister of National Security Martin Joseph during a press conference. Joseph also announced that five suspects were detained and being questioned by police. "What is different on this occasion is that there have been arrests."The United States Department of State and the Canadian government have issued travel warnings in response to the recent violence in the area.Twin blasts have rocked the historic Jama Masjid in Old Delhi (India), killing at least five people and injuring thirteen. The explosions were not strong enough to damage the 17th century mosque.The first explosion occurred around 1730 hrs local time (IST) and the second at 1740 hrs. The explosives were reportedly carried in plastic bags. There were around 1000 people in the mosque at the time of blasts as the day happened to be Friday, considered holy by the Muslims as well as because of the fact that it was the first Friday after Milad un Nabi, Prophet Muhammad's birthday. The blasts took place just before the Azaan.  Some sources claim that the mosque was almost empty with only 100-150 people in the premises when the blast took place. The first blast occurred near Gate No. 1, a place where people wash their hands before offering prayers.The injured have been admitted to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital. Alert have been sounded in major mosques in India, especially in Mumbai. Fire trucks, ambulances and bomb disposal squads reached the site and have cordoned off the area for their operations. The nearby shops have been asked to suspend operations. The Delhi State Government has requested the people to maintain calm and announced an ex-gratia compensation of Rs. 50,000 for the seriously injured and Rs. 25,000 for those with minor injuries. It is being speculated that these blasts might be linked with coincidental six grenade attacks in Srinagar, that took place the same day. As of 15th April, no terrorist group has claimed the responsibility of the blasts. The Delhi police have arrested four people and are questioning them for the blasts. However, the police have ruled out involvement of any major terrorist group because of the crude nature of explosives.At least 26 people, according to Belgian officials, have been killed and many more have been injured today following attacks on transport infrastructure in Brussels, the capital of Belgium. Authorities have stated one of the explosions, at approximately 08:00 (Central European Time, UTC+1) in the check-in area at Brussels Airport, was likely conducted by a suicide bomber. There was a subsequent attack at the Maelbeek/Maalbeek metro station, very close to the offices of the European Commission and the Council of the European Union.Passengers at the metro station were forced to walk along tracks to escape the blast. The Brussels metro system has been shut down.Jef Versele, a business traveller intending to fly to Rome, witnessed the events at the airport.  In remarks to NBC News, he said, "There was dust everywhere, glass everywhere there was chaos. There were people on the floor everywhere. The roofing came down. It was quite a mess. [...] A lot of people were in panic. I saw a lot of blood, a lot of people were injured. People were crying, on the floor, covered by parts of the roofing. I saw a lot of leg injuries, a lot of people couldn't move anymore. There were quite a lot of people injured. In the departure hall — you saw people storming out, it was like run for your life."All flights to Brussels Airport have been diverted and the airport has been shut down. Eurostar has stopped the international train service from London and the train company Thalys have shut down their entire network.Jan Jambon, the Belgian interior minister, said the country's alert level had been at maximum following the capture in Brussels of Salah Abdeslam, who is alleged to have been involved in the attacks in Paris on November 13, 2015.Charles Michel, Belgium's Prime Minister, described the attacks as "blind, violent and cowardly" and a "dark moment for our country".Donald Tusk, the president of the European Council, said: "These attacks mark another low by the terrorists in the service of hatred and violence"The French President, François Hollande, has held a cabinet meeting to discuss security. After the meeting, Hollande said "terrorists struck Brussels but it was Europe that was targeted". The French Prime Minister, Manuel Valls, said: "we are at war. We have been subjected for the last few months in Europe to acts of war."British Prime Minister David Cameron has convened a COBRA meeting to discuss Britain's response. He said he was "shocked and concerned by the events in Brussels" and pledged Britain would do "everything we can to help". U.S. President Barack Obama has been briefed on the attack during his trip in Cuba. The U.S. Embassy in Brussels has advised U.S. citizens in Belgium to not use public transport and to stay where they are.Eight people have been killed, including the two suicide bombers, and many more injured in two explosions at around 7.50 am local time in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta. Reports from local news cite a Canadian, an American, and a Swedish citizen as being among the dead. Most of the wounded have been taken to local hospitals for treatment.File:JW Marriott Hotel-Jakarta.JPGThe explosions were at two luxury hotels, the Marriott and Ritz-Carlton, popular with foreign businessmen in the business district and are reported to have occurred in the hotel restaurants during breakfast. The two hotels are connected by an underground tunnel.Indonesian security were at first unwilling to confirm that this was a terrorist attack, however later reports revealed the attack to be the work of two suicide bombers.A bomber and five victims died at the Marriott. At the Ritz-Carlton one person was killed in addition to the bomber.According to police, the dozens of wounded included citizens of Indonesia, Australia, South Korea, the Netherlands, Italy, the United Kingdom, Canada, Norway, Japan, India, and the United States.Several amateur videos of the site after the bombing, taken by local residents, show large amounts of smoke; the two explosions took place only two minutes apart. The near simultaneous detonation of devices at multiple targets frequented by foreigners is a hallmark of the Indonesian terrorist group Jemaah Islamiyah. An additional unexploded bomb was later found and defused at the Marriott.This has been the first successful bombing in some years. The same Marriott was previously the target of a terrorist car bomb in 2003.A third explosion took place some hours later, in Muara Angke, North Jakarta. The police have declared this event to be unrelated to the other explosions, stating it was simply a car accident that lead to a tire burst and engine short circuit.Pula, Croatia - Blasts destroyed two vans owned by ethnic Albanian shop owners at two different locations in Pula, a city in the Croatian region of Istria. There were no injuries in the explosions and there was no responsibility attributed. Relatives of the shop owners attributed the explosions to the present situation regarding the declaration of independence of Kosovo. There are some 2,000 ethnic Albanians in Istria.Police in the town of Malegaon have recovered explosives from a yellow container placed in the Mohammadiya Madrassa shopping complex on Kidwai Road. A bomb disposal squad has been rushed to the site, and the surrounding area has been cordoned off. Officers from the Anti-Terrorist Squad, along with IG P.K Jain and Superintendent of Police Rajyawardhan, are also at the site. Jain, however refused to confirm whether the device was a bomb, saying only that it was a "suspicious looking container with wires and a battery attached to it." He said that if it was indeed an IED, police would either attempt to defuse it, or detonate it in an isolated area.Meanwhile, police in Nashik have seized 11 detonators, 5 blasting gelatin(gelignite) sticks and a revolver from a building named Raj Sarthi. At least 38 people were killed and over 180 injured on 8 September, when three bombs went off near the Hamidia Mosque during the Shab-e-Barat festival. Although the communally sensitive town has so far been quiet, officials have once again declared an alert in Malegaon.A Pakistani man, identified as Muhammad Saif-ur-Rehman Khan, 28, was arrested in Chile on Monday after he was found with traces of explosives in the US Embassy.Chilean police say that traces of Tetryl, used to help detonate explosives, were detected. Yesterday a judge ordered Khan's continued detention under anti-terrorism laws. It has been reported that Khan was in Chile for four months, and was called to the embassy to be told that his visa]] for the US was revoked. A US official told Reuters that "based on the information that we had, we revoked his visa." The official declined to give the reason behind the decision, saying only that "[we] are required to notify individuals when we take that action and we invited him in."Khan spoke briefly to Chilean journalists and denied he was a terrorist or that he was handling explosives. "I've never seen anything like this in my life," he said, claiming that the US "just want to hide the damage they have caused to Iraq and Afghanistan."This is not the first incident involving explosives at the US Embassy in Santiago; after the September 11 attacks of 2001, the embassy was sent a letter bomb that was defused.A failed test of security at Slovakia's Poprad airport resulted in a 49 year-old man unknowingly carrying plastic explosives from Slovakia to Dublin, Ireland. The explosives were concealed so well that the man did not find them when he unpacked his bag at his apartment.On Saturday, Slovak authorities planted contraband in passengers' luggage at Poprad's Poprad-Tatry Airport without the knowledge of passengers.  Seven of the eight items were recovered, while an eighth made its way to an apartment in Dublin.  Slovak authorities realised on Tuesday that one package of explosives were missing and notified Irish authorities who searched the man's apartment.During the search, parts of Dublin's inner-suburbs were sealed off and evacuated causing disruption to residents and businesses.  At the apartment authorities found the package and arrested the man under anti-terrorism laws; he was later released without charge after it was established he was innocent.The man, a Slovakian electrician had been living in Ireland for some time. He was holidaying in Slovakia over Christmas.Ireland's Department of Justice, Equality and Law Reform issued a statement saying, "Following contact earlier today from the Slovakian authorities with the Airport Police at Dublin Airport, members of the Garda Síochána have recovered a small quantity of explosive material from the luggage of a passenger who had flown into Dublin from that country on Saturday last."The package contained 90 grams (3 ounces) of the plastic explosive RDX, also known as cyclonite or hexogen. According to Commandant Gavin Young, a spokesperson for the Irish Defense Forces, "On their own, this type of explosive does need to be combined with other elements to make it into a bomb, but obviously this type of high-grade explosive is potentially extremely dangerous."Slovakia's Minister for the Interior Robert Kalinak has apologized to Irish Justice Minister Dermot Ahern over the incident and expressed his “profound regret”. Irish authorities are now investigating the incident and the government has ordered for a full report to be delivered.The Irish Opposition has expressed concern about the incident. Labour Party spokesman Joe Costello said "This incident led to the closure of roads in the area, the evacuation of businesses and the lives and safety of residents could have been put at risk. We also need to know what protest the government is going to make about this breach of our security."Since last Tuesday, following violent confrontations with Pakistan's army, up to 1800 clerics and students are still holed up in Islamabad's Red Mosque. Clashes began last week following mounting antagonism between the mosques hard-line leaders and the government lead by President Pervez Musharraf. The mosque has been accused of enforcing its own Islamic law in the capital, notably the illegal detention of Chinese foreign nationals working in massage parlors.20 people have been reported killed over the past six days, which have seen multiple gun battles and demolition of the mosques exterior walls. Currently, there seems little chance of a negotiated resolution. A delegation of Islamic leaders were refused access, and the mosques leader Abdul Rashid Ghazi has declared suicide a favourable option to surrender.The mosques leaders follow the Hanafi school of thought, believing that the Koran is the authority by which justice should be metered. Historically the mosque has had close links with the Pakistan leadership, and members of the current administration have resisted calls for a crackdown on the mosques provocative behaviour.The stand-off represents a decisive ideological challenge to the president who is walking a fine-line between Islamic extremists at home and foreign pressure to crack-down on militancy in the lawless tribal regions.Social networking site Facebook was tonight refusing to remove pages set up in tribute to British killer Raoul Moat, despite pressure from the highest levels of the UK government. A Downing Street official had earlier said that a complaint would likely be lodged with Facebook, following questions to Prime Minister David Cameron in Parliament.Raoul Moat killed one person and seriously wounded two others in Northumbria following his release from prison, prompting a major week-long manhunt. A standoff with police ended early on Saturday morning with Moat shooting himself. An investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission is ongoing.Thirteen people have now been arrested, with several under suspicion of assisting Moat in evading the police. Flowers have been left on the riverbank where Moat shot himself, and outside his home in Newcastle. A tribute page on Facebook titled "RIP Raoul Moat You Legend" has attracted over 30,000 members.During the weekly Prime Minister's Questions session, Conservative MP Chris Heaton-Harris asked David Cameron to contact Facebook about removing the page, which he described as containing "a whole host of anti-police statements".The Prime Minister described Moat as a "callous murderer", and condemned the expressions of sympathy for him."I cannot understand any wave, however small, of public sympathy for this man," stated Cameron. "There should be sympathy for his victims and the havoc he wreaked in that community. There should be no sympathy for him."A spokesman for the Prime Minister later said that Facebook would be contacted over the matter. In response Facebook issued a statement saying that the page did not breach its terms of service and would not be removed."Facebook is a place where people can express their views and discuss things in an open way as they can and do in many other places, and as such we sometimes find people discussing topics others may find distasteful, however that is not a reason in itself to stop a debate from happening."Bangladesh temporarily blocked the social networking site Facebook on Saturday, after a man was arrested for uploading content onto it deemed offensive. Other users had reportedly posted other kinds of potentially offensive content, including anti-religious and pornographic materials.Rapid Action Battalion (RAB) arrested Mahbub Alam Rodin, aged 30, in charges of uploading cartoons of some political leaders on the website. Rodin's activity on Facebook was classified as "offensive", said Commander Mohammad Sohail, director of RAB's Legal and Media side, as reported by The Daily Star. RAB asked to block all seven accounts of Rodin in Facebook. Rodin used pseudonyms like "Brigadier Mahadi", "Sepahi Mahadi", "Imam Hossain", "Rodin Al", "Mohammad Al Mahadi" and "Junaida Khandaker Zihan", Sohail said. No official comment has been made, but Bangladesh's Telecommunication Regulatory Commission (BTRC) blocked it on the government's request. Private news agency bdnews24 reported that the measure was made on a request by the elite anti-crime Rapid Action Battalion. Users couldn't log onto the website since 6:30 pm local time. The website is to be unblocked on Monday.On the popular social networking website Facebook, various groups commemorating disgruntled pilot Joseph Andrew Stack were formed on Thursday evening. Earlier that day, in what has been described as an act of "domestic terrorism," Stack intentionally crashed his small passenger plane into an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) office building in Austin, Texas. Stack is one of two reported fatalities; the other is an IRS employee.On the information page of the first group named "The Joe 'Take My Pound Of Flesh' Stack Anti-IRS Fan Page," one administrator wrote, "[This page is] dedicated to a man, frustrated as so many of us are with our corrupt, inept government, sacrificed his life to make a statement. Will history see him as a patriot or terrorist? Depends on who is doing the writing." This particular group had approximately 250 members.Another group called "The Philosophy of Joe Stack" apparently came out against the attack, yet sympathized with its reasons: "This page is NOT to glorify his actions, but simply to say that after reading his note, we can agree with...Joe Stacks' thoughts." However, one member went as far to suggest that the United States "need[ed] a revolution" and "voting for a Democrat or a Republican is not revolutionary, it is big business as usual."A third group titled "Joseph Andrew Stack, we salute thee" was supposedly against violence towards others. One administrator did write, "We hope that everyone is okay and accounted for. It is our belief that his intention was not to hurt anyone, but just to prove a point."On the wall of a fourth group, known simply as "Joseph Andrew Stack," creator Emily Walters of Louisville, Kentucky, wrote: "Finally an American man took a stand against our tyrannical government that no longer follows the constitution and is[sic] turned its back on its founding fathers and the beliefs this country was founded on." "That so many have already contributed to Facebook page[s] as 'fans' of this terrorist attack on public servants is a truly appalling expression of extremism, which Americans will overwhelmingly reject," Democratic Congressman Lloyd Doggett of Texas told The Politico regarding the creation and subsequent growth of said pages.Facebook's Statement of Rights and Responsibilities says that its users are prohibited from "post[ing] content that is hateful, threatening, pornographic, or that contains nudity or graphic or gratuitous violence." Facebook has decided that it would be appropriate under said policy to delete these four groups.The Associated Press reports that a 23 year-old Nigerian passenger known as Abdul Farouk Abdulmutallab attempted to ignite what seemed to be fireworks, which turned out to be a mixture of liquid and powdered explosives, during descent on Northwest/Delta Flight 253 departing from Amsterdam in the Netherlands to Detroit, Michigan.The device intended to set off the bomb failed; the Airbus A330 plane safely landed around noon yesterday. At least one passenger was taken to the University of Michigan Medical Center in Ann Arbor. The suspect claimed to investigators that he had connections to Al Qaeda. The Federal Aviation Administration and Transportation Security Administration are investigating how explosives got onto the plane. The man does not appear on a "no fly" list, but his name was known to have a significant terrorist connection. Officials are treating the case as a terrorist attack.United States President Barack Obama convened a meeting on being notified of the incident. In a statement, a White House spokesman said "[President Obama] instructed that all appropriate measures be taken to increase security for air travel.""Passengers may notice additional screening measures put into place to ensure the safety of the traveling public on domestic and international flights," Department of Homeland Security spokeswoman Sara Kuban said in a statement. "As always we encourage the traveling public to be observant and aware of their surroundings and report any suspicious behavior or activity to law enforcement officials."A court in London has sentenced a would-be suicide bomber to life imprisonment.Nicky Reilly, 22, a Muslim convert with learning difficulties and Asperger syndrome, took the components for three bombs — glass bottles containing nails, caustic soda and kerosene — to the Giraffe restaurant in Exeter, south west England, in May 2008. One bottle exploded as Reilly attempted to assemble the device in the restaurant's toilets, causing him facial and hand injuries. He was arrested outside the establishment.Reilly entered a plea of guilty to attempted murder and engaging in preparation for terrorism when he appeared in court last year. The judge at the Central Criminal Court in London (known as the Old Bailey), Mr Justice Calvert-Smith, told him he would serve a minimum of 18 years, saying that it was "sheer luck or chance that [it] did not succeed in its objectives" and that "[t]he offence of attempted murder is aggravated by the fact that it was long-planned, that it had multiple intended victims and was intended to terrorise the population of this country".Reilly, also known as Mohammad Rashid Saeed Alim, was recruited via an online forum. He is believed to have a mental age of 10 and Devon and Cornwall Police said he had been "preyed on, radicalised and taken advantage of" by the members of the forum.Mohammed Rashid Saeed-Alim, a failed English suicide bomber better known by his birth name Nicky Reilly, has died while serving a life sentence. He was 30.Originally from Plymouth, Alim attempted to bomb the Giraffe restaurant in Exeter in 2008 when he was 22. He used glass bottles filled with nails, caustic soda, and paraffin but one went off prematurely as he prepared them in the restaurant's bathroom. Alim was hospitalised with facial wounds that required skin grafts, then prosecuted for the bombing. He admitted attempted murder and preparing an act of terrorism later that year and was sentenced to life with a minimum term of eighteen years. He had considered alternative targets including a police station.Alim had a mental age of around ten. He also had Asperger's syndrome and his mother said he had been manipulated by others. Police said at the time he discussed his plans online and they suspected Pakistani individuals to be responsible for his radicalisation following conversion to Islam. Alim himself left a note in his bedroom saying amongst other things he had not been manipulated. His mother pursued a complaint against police in 2010 over claims he had told people of his plans to perform a bombing but police allegedly ignored this.His body was found on Wednesday at HMP Manchester. Greater Manchester Police said there were "no suspicious circumstances" while the Prison Service simply noted the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman will carry out a routine investigation. The Plymouth Herald reported unconfirmed claims Alim was found hanged.Alim served most of his sentence at Broadmoor high-security psychiatric hospital. This July he was sentenced for an attack on Broadmoor nurses with an accomplice. The pair used mugs and snapped DVDs as weapons after a change to rules on group Muslim prayers. One of the victims was Muslim.Last year Kazi Islam, 19, was sentenced to eight years after being convicted of trying to pressure an autistic man into building a pipe bomb. Islam said he was inspired by Alim's case.An amendment of the United States constitution banning the burning of the American flag failed by one vote in the Senate on Tuesday. The final tally was 66-34; two-thirds (67 of 100 senators) was required for the amendment to pass. U.S. President, George W. Bush, gave a statement commending the bipartisan group of Senators for trying to pass the amendment.[1] It was sponsored by Orrin Hatch, a Republican Senator from Utah, and backed by the Republican Majority Leader Bill Frist, of Tennessee. Even though some members of each party voted for the amendment, some on both sides strongly dissented. Daniel Inouye, a Democrat from the state of Hawaii and a World War II veteran, said — like many other Senators including Kentucky Republican Senator Mitch McConnell — the proposed amendment was against the constitutional right to free speech.Legislators in the New Hampshire House of Representatives voted down a proposal to repeal same-sex marriage rights in the state on Wednesday. The repeal measure garnered 116 votes, but this was outweighed by 211 votes to continue allowing same-sex couples to marry. Civil unions were introduced in New Hampshire in 2007, followed by same-sex marriage in 2009.If the repeal bill had passed, it would have rolled back the state's law in to allow civil unions but not same-sex marriage. Governor John Lynch has stated that he would veto any repeal bill the legislature passed. Both New Hampshire's House and Senate are controlled by Republicans.Craig Stowell, co-chairman of Standing Up for New Hampshire Families, which support same-sex marriage rights, said that those trying to repeal the law "blew it": "This was supposed to be the most favorable legislative climate for repeal and they couldn't even get a majority."The anti-gay marriage group, the National Organization for Marriage, has stated that they will spend $250,000 to support the reelection campaigns of the lawmakers who voted for the repeal bill, while the New Hampshire Republicans of Freedom and Equality PAC has stated they will be raising money to support Republican candidates who voted against the repeal measure.In the United States, same-sex marriage is now legal in Connecticut, Iowa, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Hampshire, New York, Vermont, Washington and the District of Columbia.On Monday, Brittania House in Bradford, UK was closed due to a security alert. A Wikinews reporter received notification that the Yorkshire Building Society Howard House Branch was closed until further notice. This turned out to be an evacuation of a small area due to a suspect package. It was a false alarm.Britain has been in an increased state of vigilance since last Thursday's attack with fifty security alerts on the Tube according to Metro newspaper and the evacuation of Birmingham city centre on Saturday night.The families of workers killed in the blast at the Stockline plastics factory in 2004, are criticizing the £400,000 fine imposed on the company.They are upset at the amount of the fine imposed on the company.The Scottish TUC gave the following statement: "No level of fine can adequately reflect the loss that these families have suffered. Our justice system appears to be totally inflexible in the sentences that judges can impose following breaches of health and safety legislation."Families of Spanish sailors being held for over a month appealed to Spain's government on Friday to negotiate with the Somali pirates for their release. The kidnappers have threatened to kill three of the tuna trawler's crew after a stand-off with Spanish forces.They called upon the government to free two captured Somalis held in Spain, who are suspected of being involved in the seizure of the Alakrana and its crew of 36. As in the case with the Lynn Rival, a British yacht, the kidnappers have demanded their release.Ricardo Blach, the captain of the trawler who is being held by the pirates, warned relatives by phone that they intended to kill the three crew members—moved from the trawler on Thursday and returned on Friday in a bid to pressure the Spanish government—should their demands not be met. "They have just told us that if in three days there is no change over the two held in Spain, they will kill the three and then three others and then more," he said.The Spanish government has ruled this out, but is willing to hand them over to an African country, such as Kenya, as happened in May. "That is an issue for the courts to decide," commented Deputy Prime Minister María Teresa Fernández de la Vega Sanz to reporters, adding that talking about this "technical topic which is legally very complicated" was "risky".Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Ángel Moratinos stressed the need for calm amongst the tension of the removal and return of the three hostages. "What does this mean? It means we must remain calm. Kidnappings are complicated situations, with highs and lows, they are very difficult and stressful. But we must remain confident and calm," he said during a news conference. "If we remain calm and confident I am certain that what all Spaniards what, what the families want, what the government wants—that the hostages can return to their homes safe and sound and this kidnapping ends satisfactorily."Families say the captured crew have "little drinking water or food,". They called for Spanish authorities to "act immediately" and "do everything possible to bring home the 36 fishermen." in a joint statement. "We demand that all the parties work in the same direction" and requested that the Spanish government chooses "negotiation" as opposed to risking the life of the crew in danger by forceful means.The pirates captured the boat on October 2, and are demanding US$4 (€2.6)  million in ransom in addition to the release of the two captured Somalis. The crew comprises sixteen Spaniards, the crew includes eight Indonesians and members from Ghana, the Ivory Coast, Madagascar, Senegal and the Seychelles.Spanish military captured the two suspected pirates when they left the trawler via a small boat. On Friday, Spain's secretary of state for defence, Constantino Mendez, insisted that their release "is not negotiable." He announced on Spanish National Radio that the hostages are "in good health" and that the kidnappers are "dramatising" the situation as a "negotiating tactic."Two Spanish frigates are observing the situation off the Somali coast.Families who were evacuated in Bristol, United Kingdom have been told that they will not yet be allowed to return to their homes. This is despite the fact that many news reports from the time of the evacuation, including those from BBC News indicated that they would be able to return yesterday.Avon and Somerset police recently released a statement on the evacuation, part of which is available below:This move comes after Avon and Somerset police arrested a man in the Westbury on Trym area of the city on suspicion of terrorism.The Norwegian press is reporting that Kaja Bordevich Ballo, aged 20, the daughter of Norwegian MP Olav Gunnar Ballo, committed suicide two weeks ago after taking a Scientology personality test. The family blames the Church of Scientology for her death and decided to go public with the story, after the test results and a suicide note were discovered after Ballo's death.On March 28, 2008, Ballo, a student at the University of Nice Sophia Antipolis located in Nice, France, took the Scientology personality test. A few hours later she reportedly killed herself by jumping from the window of her dormitory. Her friends and roommates claim she was in good spirits and showed no signs of a mental break down or depression prior to taking the test. The test was stamped and dated by the Church just hours prior to her suicide."I believe Kaja would have been alive today if she had not gone to the Scientologists," says friend and fellow student Henrik Møinichen, 19, to Dagbladet."The information about the Scientology test has been made public through the priest's speech at the memorial service. I can confirm that. Due to the recency of her death, I don't wish to elaborate on or comment on other matters now," said Olav in a statement to the press.The Church, which is located only meters from Ballo's dormitory, states that the results had shown Ballo was "depressed, irresponsible, hyper-critical and lacking in harmony." They also state that it is "unfair to blame Scientology" for Ballo's death and that the test had nothing to do with it. Ballo left behind a note telling her family she was sorry for not "being good for anything."The incident has generated criticism against the Church from friends, family members and politicians. Inga Marte Thorkildsen, one of the members of Norway's Parliament, told the Oslo newspaper Dagbladet that "All indications are that the Scientologist sect has played a direct role in Kaja's choice to take her own life."Matthias Fosse, information chief for the Church of Scientology in Norway, rejected any links connection between Scientology and Ballo's suicide, and denied that the personality test was "dangerous", saying that millions of people have taken it. The Church of Scientology also pointed out Ballo's history of psychological issues and an eating disorder that she had experienced in her early teenage years.The Church has since removed the test from its Norwegian website."Nothing can ever fill the hole that has been left in our lives," they continued. "We know that Jack had a lot of friends, but we have been amazed by the amount of messages that people have left. "The family continued "we can not believe Jack has gone, we all keep expecting him to walk back in. Jack was an angel, he was amazing."The death, which was treated as murder, resulted in two arrests. The murder, which occurred on Wednesday evening, took place near Highridge Road in Bishopsworth, Bristol.After more than two years, much controversy remains in the case of a British student who was killed in the central Italian university town of Perugia. Two separate trials have been held for the three suspects. All three have been convicted and are in prison serving sentences of 30, 26 and 25 years. But all three continue to proclaim their innocence. The most well-known of the three young people convicted of the murder of Meredith Kercher in November 2007 is American-born Amanda Knox.The British tabloid newspapers immediately described Knox as a she-devil and man-eater. A week ago, 22-year-old Knox and her former Italian boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito were convicted to 26 and 25 years in prison respectively after a trial that lasted 11 months. The prosecution had requested life imprisonment. The third suspect, Rudy Guede, from the Ivory Coast, had previously been convicted of 30 years in prison in a fast-track trial. Nick Pisa is a British tabloid journalist who has been covering the story since Kercher's dead body was found."In general I think people were expecting this verdict. It was certainly one that has been anticipated by both the Italian media and the Italian public," Pisa said. "I think the only people who were surprised were perhaps the Anglo-Saxon press because in the face of the evidence that was presented in court it's very, very unlikely that this case would have been found guilty in another court."No one argues that there is no evidence that puts Knox at the scene of the crime. But the prosecution has said there is plenty of circumstantial evidence that she was involved. He said Knox changed her version of the story many times and also unjustly accused a Congolese bar owner, for whom she had worked.Knox's mother, Edda Mellas, insists her daughter is innocent, that she was not home the night Kercher was killed and adds her daughter has been in prison for more than two years without reason."She's devastated, she's scared that she's going to be stuck in jail," Mellas said. "She's confused... I don't think she even believed that courts find innocent people guilty of crimes they didn't commit and especially in this case where there was no evidence."Mellas paints a very different picture of her daughter than the one presented by the prosecution and media."Amanda's a great young woman," Mellas said. "She's very bright. She's athletic. She's kind. She has really, really good friends. She's just a normal college kid."Knox's family members say they will fight on and appeal the court's decision. They say the verdict, based on the evidence presented, was wrong. Nick Pisa agrees that the appeal could make the difference for Knox."It does appear that the evidence that convicted her was very, very flimsy and I think once they examine this DNA evidence again - let's remember there was the request for an independent review that was ruled out by the judge," Pisa said. "And I think that's probably one of the first things that a new judge will ask for when he comes to review this case."By early March the court will provide a written document outlining the reasons behind the verdict. An appeal by Knox's defense lawyers will be deposited soon after that. In the meantime Knox will have spent her third Christmas in an Italian jail as she awaits for a hearing date to be set, which is unlikely to be before October 2010.The widow and five children of former Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet have been arrested in Chile on embezzlement charges. They are accused of illegally transferring USD27 million to foreign bank accounts during Pinochet's rule from 1973 to 1990.  Seventeen of Pinochet's former associates, including his former personal secretary and three retired army generals, were also arrested.  Pinochet had been charged with tax evasion, fraud, and embezzlement following a 2004 U.S. Senate investigation.  In December 2006, he died without having been brought to trial. However, Chilean Judge Carlos Cerda said there were "solid indications" that Pinochet's family and associates had also "participated in the misuse of fiscal funds".Jose Miguel Vivanco of Human Rights Watch called the decision "an extremely important development for Chile's democracy and the rule of law. Going after the relatives of the powerful and the fortunes they amassed used to be considered off limits," he said.Pinochet family lawyer Pablo Rodriguez said he was "astonished by this illegal and abusive decision by the judge", and that he was "sure that it will be reversed by the Court of Appeals."Following a new report into the loss of a Nimrod jet belonging to the UK's Royal Air Force over Afghanistan the family of one of the victims is seeking a criminal prosecution. Sergeant Ben Knight, aged 25, was among the fourteen killed when Nimrod XV230 crashed in 2006.Knight's parents have applied via their lawyers Smithfield Partners to the Crown Prosecution Service to consider evidence contained in a report by Charles Haddon-Cave QC, who is due to appear before the House of Commons next month. The Loss Of RAF Nimrod XV230, A Failure Of Leadership, Culture And Priorities stated that the accident was preventable and that the Ministry of Defence (MoD) made spending cuts a priority over safety. A 2005 review into Nimrod safety was "riddled with errors," the report found.Smithfield Partners have also written to the Health and Safety Executive, asking for the MoD to be investigated for breaches of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974. The letter was addressed directly to deputy chief executive Kevin Myres.XV230 had shortly completed air-to-air refueling on September 2, 2006, when it was destroyed by an explosion. "We had a 25-year-old healthy son, who used to play squash and, to put it bluntly, he ended up as a plastic bag full of bits," said Graham Knight. "That is something which is very hard to cope with."The Knights met Armed Forces Minister Bill Rammell in London yesterday. Rammell said he was unable to comment on possible legal action against individuals, but promised to provide answers to other questions posed by the Knights and other families. The Crown Prosecution Service has promised consider the matter, and the Health and Safety Executive said it could not comment this early on in developments. The latest report names five people in the MoD, three with BAE Systems and two with defence company QinetiQ, as responsible.The family of a woman who committed suicide recently after appearing on CNN Headline News Nancy Grace's self titled show said Tuesday that they will be taking her to court.Melinda Duckett, the mother of an infant son, Trenton Duckett, reported him missing on August 27, and fatally shot herself in her grandparents' retirement home on September 8. Shortly before her death, she had appeared on Grace's show, where she engaged in debate with the former Georgia prosecutor regarding her perceived lack of transparency regarding the disappearance. A suicide note was later found at the scene. The case made national headlines after her appearance."Nancy Grace and the others, they just bashed her to the end," said Duckett's grandfather, Bill Eubanks, during an interview with The Orlando Sentinel. "She wasn't one anyone ever would have thought of to do something like this. She and that baby just loved each other, couldn't get away from each other. She wouldn't hurt a bug."Grace's spokeswoman called the suicide "a sad development," and Grace herself issued a statement saying, "I do not feel that our show is to blame for what happened to Melinda Duckett." "The truth," said Grace, "is not always nice or polite or easy to go down. Sometimes it's harsh, and it hurts."However, thesmokinggun.com, a true crime website run by Court TV (where Grace also hosts a show), revealed pending litigation by the family on the behalf of Melinda Duckett's estate. Duckett's family is issuing a wrongful death claim against both CNN and Nancy Grace.After the murder of Grace's fiancee in 1979, she became a prosecutor in her native Georgia and later hosted her own show on Court TV, followed later by her CNN tenure. Grace, however, has been criticized for her sense of ethics and allegedly playing fast and loose with the facts, both in the courtroom and on the air.Grace's heated interview, however, was not without proper motive. The police had long suspected Melinda Duckett of involvement in her son's disappearance, due to her behavior and contradictory statements. After Duckett's suicide, police named her as a prime suspect in her son's disappearance. Recently, they have announced that they have reason to believe that Trenton Duckett is still alive.The Head Minister of the Institutional Security Cabinet of Brazil, General Jorge Felix, and the director-general of the Brazilian Intelligence Agency (Abin), Mauro Marcelo de Lima e Silva, testifying before a commission of deputies and senators, said documents may be incorrect. They maintain the Brazilian magazine Veja, in its article "FARC's tentacles in Brazil", should not be used.  This weekend, Veja presented testimonies by people who allegedly worked on Abin's FARC-PT investigation. These contradict the explanations that General Felix gave to the commission.Colombia —The community of the town of Condoto, 600km of Bogota, in the region of Chocó, has been surrounded by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia FARC for a week. The rebel army is interfering with the movement of people, food, and medicine to the city. According to the Government of Chocó Secretary Fredy Lloreda the action is apparently in retaliation for recent operations performed by government forces against the rebels.The FARC are a Marxist revolutionary group with about 12,000 members which originated from the Colombian Communist Party of the 1960s. The FARC's main stated objective is the creation of a Communist government in Colombia.According to the Colombian government, the US FBI, and Interpol, the majority of the FARC's recent funding has come from kidnapping, extortion, hijacking, and illegal trade in cocaine.The FARC are considered a terrorist group by the governments of Colombia and the United States, a Colombian ally in the fight against the FARC. The FARC are a member of the Foro de São Paulo and are opposed to the influence of the government of the United States in South America.Authorities are looking for USD$75,000 in frozen bull semen stolen Sunday from liquid nitrogen tanks at a farm in Frederick County, Maryland. Eric Fleming, the owner, says the semen took 4 to 5 years to collect from 40 to 50 bulls. He had planned to sell the semen at an upcoming Denver cattle show.The collection and storage of semen can be a very profitable business—the ease of transportation reduces the costs normally associated with insemination, namely the transport of bull and cow to one another. Collection can be tricky, however, as bulls do not always produce as expected and the process is not particularly easy."I will give a nice fat reward for any information on semen that was stolen from my tank today," Fleming posted to a livestock breeder's message board. "It was a mother load of semen."Ontario Provincial Police raided a farmhouse on Sunday, continuing an investigation into what is called Ontario's "biggest massacre".On Saturday, eight bodies were found in or around vehicles near the village of Shedden, approximately 30 kilometres from London, Ontario. Police would not identify the victims, but believed they knew each other and were from the Toronto area. They also refused to comment on any possible links between the deaths and organised crime.Neighbours believed the house was owned by a former leader of a motorcycle gang. Police have closed off a 15 square kilometre area while they search for clues. They would not comment on the reason for the raid.Two people were killed and 40 others injured in a series of bombings at courts in three districts of Dhaka, Bangladesh today, in an apparent repeat of the nationwide August 17 bombings (in which 3 people were killed and 150 injured), according to police.One person was killed and five others were injured when a youth hurled a bomb concealed in a book at a court in central Chandpur district. The injured included court officials. In another attack in Luxmipur district, one person was killed and 30 others injured when two youths hurled bombs at a court there, police said. In the third incident, bombs were exploded in three places in southeastern port city of Chittagong injuring at least five others.An unexploded bomb was found in Mymensingh district, television reports said.State Minister for Home Affairs Lutfuzzaman Babor was unfazed. "We were prepared and we will face these very confidently," he told reporters "Some arrests were made as we were prepared".Yesterday, two people were killed and three others were injured in a bomb attack at a tea stall in western Satkhira district.According to reports, a leaflet was found at the site warning against keeping shops open during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan starting this week.The Government has arrested dozens of members of the banned Jamatul Mujahedeen Bangladesh (JMB) since then.Appearing before Judge William Ledbetter Jr. in Spotsylvania County  Circuit Court, the fatal dog mauling defendant Deanna Large plead not guilty Wednesday to charges of involuntary manslaughter and three misdemeanor counts of letting a dangerous dog run at large.Large is the alleged owner of three pit bulls that attacked and killed an 82-year-old neighbor as she walked her dog in the front yard of her home. Police responding to the incident on March 8, shot two of the dogs at the scene and later euthanized the third.No one in Virginia has ever been convicted of an involuntary manslaughter charge in connection with their ownership of dogs. The only similar case, in the late 1960’s in Amherst County, was dismissed.The commonwealth’s prosecuting attorney, William F. Neely said, “That’s a prosecutor’s job whenever you see the law being flagrantly broken is to try and push the envelope,” explaining the seriousness of charges against Large who faces 13 years in prison. Further adding that, “The real issues are legal and not factual, I think. If the commonwealth prevails in getting this case to stand up on the law, it may possibly even turn into a guilty plea.”Large, who is free on a US$10,000 bond, asked for a jury trial which was set for August 16.During her March 24 arraignment, to Judge Ledbetter she answered “Yes sir," on whether she would hire her own defense lawyer. The judge appointed public defender Eugene Frost to represent Large when she did not appear with a lawyer.Five people were killed by an 18 year-old man who opened fire inside the Trolley Square Mall on Monday evening, according to preliminary reports. Police say they have shot dead one suspect. The shootings started at 6:45 in The Old Spaghetti Factory on the second floor of the Trolley Square Mall.Two employees of the Williams-Sonoma store, near the southwest corner of Trolley Square, told KSL that they heard shots and breaking glass from the area of the west parking garage. They say they saw a gunman about 6'3”, wearing a dark trench coat, carrying a shotgun, probably in his 20's. He came into the mall from the parking garage. A witness at Trolley Square has said that there may have been a second shooter, a man dressed in normal clothing and carrying a young child. Multiple news outlets have reported an off-duty police officer from the nearby city of Ogden confronted and shot the suspect. This officer is likely the "second shooter" reported earlier.KTVX had reported that there may have been another shooter inside the facility, however this was later found to not be the case.The mall evacuation began at 7:00 and is progressing slowly. The shooter has been identified as Solejman Talovic, an eighteen year-old Bosnian refugee living in Salt Lake City.Charles Carl Roberts IV, a 32-year-old delivery man for a local milk company, shot and killed three girls and injured seven others before killing himself during an attack on a one-room Amish school in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, United States. Of the wounded, two girls have died in the hospital.The gunman entered the school located in the village of Nickel Mines (near the town of Paradise) and proceeded to tell all boys and some adults to exit the school, including a pregnant woman and some women with infants. He was believed to be armed with an automatic handgun and a shotgun. He then restrained the remaining girls with ties and plastic cuffs, blocked the doors with desks and wood that he brought in, and shot the girls in the head.According to the BBC, the classroom contained 15 male pupils, 10–12 female pupils, one teacher and a number of assistants.Police were called shortly after shots were fired at 10:36 a.m. local time (14:36 GMT).Police arrived at the scene at 10:45 a.m. and surrounded the building. Police tried to make contact with the gunman, but were unsuccessful.During this time, an emergency operator located in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania received a call from someone claiming to have been called by the gunmen.  In this phone call the gunman warned that if the police did not pull back from the area he would open fire. This message was then sent to the officers on scene but during the sending of the message, shots were fired in quick succession inside the school. Police then stormed the school to find the three girls dead, all shot in the head.According to his wife, the gunman had seemed perfectly normal in the morning. However, when she returned to the family home around midday, she discovered suicide notes addressed to each of his three children.At 11:00 a.m. she received a call from Roberts saying he was attacking the school and taking hostages to get "revenge for something that happened 20 years ago," said Jeffrey Miller, the Pennsylvania State Police Commissioner.Two children and a woman have been stabbed to death by a knife-wielding man at a crèche (day care center) in Dendermonde, Belgium. Officials have confirmed that the deaths occurred due to knife wounds inflicted by an unidentified man wearing white face paint with blackened eyes, who arrived by bicycle at the crèche in East Flanders.The Associated Press reports local prosecutor Christian Du Four telling a news conference, "We have three people dead and 10 in various hospitals." The injured have been taken to the University Hospital in Ghent and other neighbouring hospitals.The alleged attacker, said to be a 20-year-old, rang the doorbell of the crèche at 09:00 UTC (10:00 local), then ran upstairs when the door was opened. He fled the scene by bicycle and was arrested at 10:30 UTC. He was reported as being injured as he was detained. State broadcaster VRT described the man as being local, whilst AP reports Leene Du Bois, a Flemish government official, as saying that he had no connection with the crèche.The crèche had 18 children in its care, with six adults in attendance.Police arrested the suspect at a nearby shop. Reuters reports that Belgian media believe the suspect to be a psychiatric patient.Rafiq Qureshi, the father of Rubina Ali, a child star of the Academy Award winning movie Slumdog Millionaire, has been accused of trying to sell his daughter. Qureshi was brought in for questioning by Indian police after a British news agency made accusations that he tried to sell his daughter. Ali played the character Latika. Ali was the youngest actress in the movie, only 9 years old.  She currently resides in a very poor area of Mumbai with her step-mother, father, and brother.  Funds have been set up for Ali's education and the local government has agreed to give housing to the children in the family.News of the World says the alleged sale came to light during a sting operation performed by the news agency. They allege that Qureshi tried to sell his daughter for US$290,000 (£200,000) to his brother-in-law Rajan More."On Sunday, Rubina's mother Khurshid complained to us that her ex-husband was trying to sell her daughter, saying she saw some reports on television to that effect," said deputy Indian police commissioner, Nisar Tamboli to Reuters. Police say he tried to sell Ali to his brother-in-law because the family was not happy with the amount of money Ali was getting from her role in the film. More says Ali is not happy with living with her father."I have to consider what's best for me, my family and Rubina's future. We've got nothing out of this film," said Qureshi as alleged by News of the World who also alleges that Ali's brother Mohiuddin was in on the plan.The family denies any wrongdoing and denies they tried to sell Ali."We never thought that we would have to face this. We are poor people, for us, our children are everything. Why would we give her away like that?," said Moinuddin Qureshi, the uncle of Ali.Authorities are continuing to investigate the incident.A 35-year-old man had been charged with murdering his daughter after allegedly throwing her from the West Gate Bridge in Melbourne, Australia.The man, named as IT consultant Arthur Phillip Freeman, was arrested following an incident at 0910AEST (2210 UTC) where Darcey Iris Freeman, 4, fell 60m into a river. She was rescued from the water but had suffered severe injuries and died later in the city's Royal Children's Hospital.Two other children were in the car at the time of the incident. They are believed also to be the children of Arthur Freeman. Freeman and his wife, Peta, split in 2007.Shortly after the incident, Freeman was spotted in the Commonwealth Law Courts in William Street with the two other children. He appeared to be in a distressed or confused state. He was arrested immediately and his case brought to Melbourne Magistrates' Court this afternoon.The police say that Freeman is in an acute psychiatric state and cannot be questioned.The fathers of Adrienne Heredia's four children, slain together with their mother and her boyfriend Luis Rios, 35, are grieving their loss in Yuma, Arizona, but have little information from the police about the crime.The children, son Danny Heredia III, 6; daughter, Inez Newman, 9; and two other sons - Andreas Crawford, 13, and Enrique Bedoya, 12, were found inside the home with their mother after police were called to the scene the night of June 24th on reports of guns shots. Mr. Rios was found in the backyard, still alive at the time but died later in hospital."It feels like a nightmare," said Danny Heredia Jr., father of Danny Heredia III. The fathers were contacted by authorities before the names were released to the press. Kenneth Crawford learned of the death of his sons Andreas and Enrique when he returned a trip to Los Angeles,  and Inez's father William C. Newman Jr. was contacted at work.Police released very few new details at their June 27th press conference on the case. They have a witness reporting a man fleeing the scene, and a sketch has been released. However, police are unsure if the crime is the work of a single individual, or if others were involved. "This type of investigation, because of the complexity of it, is not going to take a few minutes," Police Chief William Robinson said.Autopsies have been ordered, and the causes of death will not be released until they are completed.In Montreal, Québec on Saturday, officers from the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) and the Montreal Police Service arrested one of the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted" fugitives.Richard Steve Goldberg, living under the assumed name Terry Wayne Kearns, was picked up without incident in a Montreal apartment by police acting on a tip from the FBI's Los Angeles field office. An unidentified person living in Canada had recognized Goldberg as one of the FBI's most wanted, verified the information on the FBI's website, and then called in the tip to the FBI in Los Angeles. The FBI had offered a reward of up to US$100,000 for information leading directly to the arrest of Goldberg.It was not clear how long Goldberg had been living in Canada, though he has been fugitive since 2001. Goldberg is wanted by police in Long Beach, California, on allegations that he engaged in sexual activities with several female children under ten years of age and produced images of the sex acts, which were subsequently found on his computer. According to the FBI web site, the specific U.S. charges against Goldberg stemming from incidents that allegedly took place in 2001, are: sexual exploitation of children (production of child pornography), unlawful flight to avoid prosecution, six counts of lewd acts upon a child, and two counts of possession of child pornography.Canadian authorities are holding Goldberg in Montreal currently on immigration-related violations. He is expected to appear in court on Monday. It is likely that extradition or deportation proceedings will be initiated in order to transfer Goldberg to the United States to face charges there.A Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agent working for the field office in Buffalo, New York (NY) has been arrested and charged with exposing himself in public. The alleged incident, only now becoming public knowledge, allegedly occurred on Friday, December 7 at about 9:00 p.m on Interstate 90, also known at this part of its length as the New York State Thruway, between exits 57 and 57A in the town of Eden. John A. Yervelli Jr., 48, was arrested and charged with public lewdness. He was later released and issued a ticket to appear in Eden Town Court on December 18. According to police, a truck driver was driving eastbound on the expressway when Yervelli pulled up to his window. According to the truck driver, Yervelli was naked from the waist down and making "lewd gestures" to him. The truck driver called police who stopped Yervelli's car at the Hamburg toll plaza and detained him. Yervelli denies the charges."It doesn't matter who you are or what you may do for a living. If you are suspected of committing a crime, and we have enough reasonable cause to do so, we are going to do our job and make an arrest," said Lieutenant David Denz of the New York state police department to WGRZ's '2 On Your Side.'Maureen P. Dempsey, public affairs specialist for the FBI said the Bureau considers the incident "an internal administrative matter" and "the FBI is not commenting on the matter beyond that."According to NY state law, individuals charged with public lewdness in New York could spend up to 30 days in prison and face fines up to US$500.United States law enforcement officials announced the arrest Thursday of four men in connection with a plot to blow up two synagogues in The Bronx, a borough of New York City, and shoot down military airplanes flying out of the Stewart Air National Guard Base.The men allegedly placed car bombs wired to cell phones outside the Riverdale Temple and nearby Riverdale Jewish Center in the Bronx area of the city. New York City Police Department commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said one of the suspects placed what he believed were homemade bombs, or improvised explosive devices, in separate vehicles parked outside the synagogues. The other three suspects served as lookouts.According to a joint statement released by the US Attorney for the Southern District of New York, the FBI and the New York City Police Department, the men were returning to the vehicle and were planning to attack aircraft at the Air National Guard base at Stewart airport in Newburgh, with Stinger surface-to-air guided missiles when law enforcement stopped them.As the men were returning to the vehicle, the signal was given for the arrest. An 18-wheel New York City Police Department vehicle blocked the end of the street. The FBI informer also served as the driver of the suspects’ vehicle. Another armored vehicle arrived, and officers from the department’s Emergency Service Unit, according to witnesses, smashed the blackened windows of the SUV, removed the men from the vehicle, and handcuffed them on the ground. None offered resistance.The men had previously conducted surveillance of military planes at the Air National Guard base including taking photographs.Both the car bombs and the missiles were actually fakes given to the plotters with the help of an informant for the FBI, who posed as a Pakistani militant affiliated with Al-Qaeda. Each of the two homemade bombs was equipped with about 37 pounds of inert material labeled as C-4 plastic explosives, but the devices had been 'totally disabled by the FBI," and "there was no danger to anyone," Commissioner Kelly said."While the bombs these terrorists attempted to plant tonight were – unbeknownst to them – fake, this latest attempt to attack our freedoms shows that the homeland security threats against New York City are sadly all too real," said Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City.The suspects are reported to be four Muslim men; three U.S. citizens, one Haitian. The Daily News reports that three of the men are jail-house converts to Islam.James Cromitie, 53, the reported leader, claims that his parents live in Afghanistan and told the FBI informant that he was angry about the U.S. military killing Muslims in Afghanistan and Pakistan. He had lived in Brooklyn and had a record of "as many as 27 arrests" for minor crimes "both upstate and in New York City."The other suspects are David Williams, Onta Williams, and Laguerre Payen a native of Haiti.At the arraignment held Thursday, attorney for Laguerre Payen, Marilyn Reader, told the court that Payen has "a very low borderline" intelligence quotient and receives medication for schizophrenia.The FBI have arrested a man and charged him with interstate stalking over allegations he was responsible for nude videos of United States sports news presenter Erin Andrews. The videos appeared on the Internet earlier this year.The FBI believes seven videos of Andrews were made in Nashville, Tennessee in September last year while another one was made in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is believed that the suspect, Michael David Barrett, 48, stayed each time in a room next to Andrews and modified her room's peephole with a hacksaw in order to take the videos with his mobile phone.Barrett was returning from a trip to Buffalo, New York on Friday when he was arrested at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport. He has been held over the weekend and made an initial court appearance in Chicago on Saturday.It is alleged that Barrett tried to sell the videos to celebrity website TMZ.com, but one of their employees told Andrews' lawyer. He faces the charge in Los Angeles where TMZ is based and tomorrow a judge will decide whether to send him there or release him on bail. He faces a fine of $250,000 and five years imprisonment if convicted.Marriott Nashville at Vanderbilt University has been identified as the location most of the videos were taken but the hotel involved in the one thought to be taken in Milwaukee remains a mystery. A room Andres used at Milwaukee's Ramada Conference Center had similar damage to its peephole but the room did not match the video and Barrett is not thought to have checked in there, although it is claimed he did reserve a room beside Andrews. It is also claimed he made a similar request when booking his room at the Marriott.Andrews has reviewed several of the videos in an effort to assist authorities with their enquiries. "For my part, I will make every effort to strengthen the laws on a state and federal level to better protect victims of criminal stalking," she said in a statement that thanked the FBI and federal prosecutors. She has topped a Playboy poll for sexiest sportscaster for the last two years running.People who know Barrett have expressed surprise. "I don't think he's even had a traffic ticket... He's as regular a guy as you'll ever meet — a great friend," said his lawyer, Rick Beuke. Barrett's father Frank said the allegations "[do] not match the Mike I know." "He's always been an upstanding, hardworking guy," according to Frank.Local authorities in Chicago, Illinois, United States have asked that the FBI help in the murder and kidnap investigation of the relatives of singer and Academy Award winning actress Jennifer Hudson.On Friday, Hudson's Mother Darnell Donerson, 57 and brother, Jason, 29, were shot and killed in the Southern Chicago home in what authorities are calling a domestic dispute. A cousin had found the bodies at around 2:44 p.m. (CDT) and called 9-1-1. Hudson's nephew, 7-year-old Julian King, was kidnapped from the scene and has not been seen since. An AMBER Alert was issued and police are looking for a 1994 white Chevrolet Suburban or a teal-green Chrysler Concorde.King's mother, Julia Hudson, who was previously reported missing, is pleading for whoever has her son, to release him."I don't care who you are, just let the baby go. I just want my son. He don't deserve this. We're in a state of shock. I don't know what else to do but pray," said Hudson during a press conference on Saturday. The FBI was called in because authorities suspected King might have been taken over state lines.Police have detained and questioned several people, and some reports say that includes William Balfour, who police previous thought to have kidnapped King. Reports say he is Julia's ex-boyfriend, having since been separated. Police deny that he is a suspect in either the murders or kidnapping and will not confirm or deny if he is or was in custody. So far no charges have been filed against anyone for the crimes.The United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has asked the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF), host of Wikinews and its sister projects, to take down its image of the FBI seal from its websites. However, the WMF declined, saying that FBI lawyers had misinterpreted the relevant federal law.In a letter dated July 22, David C. Larson, Deputy General Counsel of the FBI demanded that the WMF remove the seal from its websites within fourteen days, claiming that "it facilitates both deliberate and unwitting violations of these restrictions by Wikipedia users." Larson cited 18 U.S.C. 701, which states: "Whoever manufactures, sells, or possesses any badge, identification card, or other insignia, of the design prescribed by the head of any department or agency of the United States for use by any officer or employee thereof, or any colorable imitation thereof, or photographs, prints, or in any other manner makes or executes any engraving, photograph, print, or impression in the likeness of any such badge, identification card, or other insignia, or any colorable imitation thereof, except as authorized under regulations made pursuant to law, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than six months, or both."Larson went on to say that use of the FBI seal may be authorized only by the director of the FBI; the FBI director has not given such permission to WMF. The WMF, represented by General Counsel Mike Godwin, responded, saying in a letter dated July 30, that Larson's interpretation "is both idiosyncratic (made especially so by your strategic redaction of important language) and, more importantly, incorrect."Godwin said that "while we appreciate your desire to revise the statute to reflect your expansive vision of it, the fact is that we must work with the actual language of the statute, not the aspirational version" Larson provided. According to the relevant case law, it "was intended to protect the public against the use of a recognizable assertion of authority with intent to deceive." Godwin asserted that the use of the FBI seal by the WMF and its projects do not fall under the purview of that law.The websites of the Wikimedia Foundation are filled with user-generated text, pictures, and other materials, uploaded and curated by independent, often anonymous, volunteers, who change the websites minute by minute. The most well-known sites are the Wikipedias, encyclopedias with over 13 million articles in hundreds of languages. However, the foundation also hosts an image and media library, dictionaries, the Wikinews news websites, book websites and many other educational collaborations.Cindy Cohn, legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation (where Godwin was once staff counsel), said that the WMF's constitutional right to free expression allows it to use the FBI seal. "I have to believe the FBI has better things to do than this," she said. The reason for the FBI's request is unknown, as the FBI seal is published on many other websites, including Encyclopedia Britannica.The FBI is investigating 26 firms and 1,400 individuals involved in the US financial crisis for fraud and "sub-prime lending practices". Freddie Mac, Lehman Brothers, Fannie Mae and AIG are among the firms being scrutinized after recently receiving federal bailouts. Investigators, who are cooperating with the IRS, Postal Office, and other federal offices to complete their investigation, are concerned that major corporations may have also forced or bribed ratings agencies to favor them.The probe, which is in early stages, began eight months ago when the FBI began taking a close look at the mortgage industry and widespread irresponsible loaning practices. At least one corporation has been raided, but so far no evidence of fraud has been found.The FBI has questioned executives of each of the firms closely, and arrested two in June. An anonymous source told The Times that the firms had been ordered to "hold all papers and e-mails under lock and key" as the FBI scours the finances of each firm. Many of the companies and individuals being investigated are at the center of the nationwide financial crisis and controversial bailout plans, and have been widely blamed for the country's financial crisis. The investigation has come at a time when the eyes of many in the US and around the world are turned towards the financial markets, as Congress and politicians scramble to fix the crisis while the election date looms closer. Officials told CNN that it would be a long time before the investigations were finished, adding a warning: "Don't expect indictments tomorrow or next week or next month".The FBI has confirmed that the chunky substance discovered in the Moore-Hill dormitory at the University of Texas on Thursday is not the poison ricin.Ricin is one of the most deadly poisons in the world and can exist in the form of a pellet, mist, or powder.  Some symptoms of exposure can include vomiting and dehydration, sweating, nausea, fever, cough and difficulty of breathing.An earlier report by the Associated Press had said tests had found the substance might be ricin.  Such tests are designed to error on the side of caution, thus ensuring that possible poisoning victims receive treatment in time. Last year there were similar false positive reports of ricin in London, which were further publicized by Vice President Cheney and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell.Former U.S. Chief Justice William Rehnquist suffered paranoid delusions in 1981 during withdrawal from a dependence on prescription painkillers, according to his recently-released FBI file.The late head of the U.S.'s top court began taking the drug Placidyl in the early 1970s for insomnia and back pain while he was an associate Supreme Court justice.  His dependence on the drug was first made public when he was hospitalized for symptoms related to it in 1981, but the delusions were only revealed in the release of the file this week.A doctor who treated Rehnquist told an FBI investigator the justice had "bizarre ideas and outrageous thoughts. He imagined, for example, that there was a CIA plot against him." Another doctor said Rehnquist "had also gone to the lobby in his pajamas in order to try to escape."Rehnquist had been taking nearly three times the recommended maximum daily dosage of the drug. His delusions came when doctors at George Washington University Hospital took him off it. Eventually, they put him back on Placidyl and weaned him off slowly until he was cured of his dependence.The FBI conducted an extensive investigation into Rehnquist's drug dependence at the request of the Senate Judiciary Committee during his 1986 confirmation hearings to become chief justice.Rehnquist's file was released to media and lawyers this week as part of a public records request. Rehnquist died in September 2005 and because his privacy could no longer be violated, the FBI OK'd its release.The FBI was also asked to investigate Democrats who were set to testify against Rehnquist at the 1986 hearing, the file showed. The Democrats were set to testify Rehnquist intimidated minority voters in the early 1960s as a Republican Party official in Arizona.It's not clear if the bureau ever did investigate the Democrats, however a memo in the file shows then-Assistant Attorney General John Bolton, the most-recent United Nations Ambassador for the U.S., approved the investigation and said he would "accept responsibility should concerns be raised about the role of the FBI."Rehnquist first took his seat as associate justice in 1972 and served on the court until his death.File:FBI-pedophile-symbols-416.jpgIn an exclusive report, Wikinews has obtained an internal FBI document from Wikileaks detailing symbols used by organized pedophiles to identify one another. Wikileaks obtained the document via Spanish "childhood erotica" networks. According to Wikileaks, the unclassified parts of the document were only briefly published by the Ann Arbor, Michigan police department in a newsletter, which was later removed from the internet.The document, which is titled Symbols and Logos Used by Pedophiles to Identify Sexual Preferences states that "pedophiles, to include those who sexually abuse children as well as those who produce, distribute, and trade child pornography, are using various types of identification logos or symbols to recognize one another and distinguish their sexual preferences."According to the FBI, there are at least three groups that pedophiles can use to identify what age and or gender they prefer such as "boylove, girllove and childlove." Most of the logos have been found to be printed on coins, necklace charms and rings.The first logo, 'The BoyLover logo' (BLogo) "is a small blue spiral-shaped triangle surrounded by a larger triangle, whereby the small triangle represents a small boy and the larger triangle represents an adult man. A variation of the BLogo is the Little Boy Lover logo (LBLogo), which also embodies a small spiral-shaped triangle within a larger triangle; however, the corners of the LBLogo are rounded to resemble a scribbling by a young child," said the document.The second logo, 'The GirlLover logo' (GLogo) is "a small heart surrounded by a larger heart, which symbolizes a relationship between an adult male or female and minor girl," the document stated.The last logo, 'The ChildLover logo' (CLogo), "resembles a butterfly and represents non-preferential gender child abusers," added the document.It is not known how the document came to be in the hands of Spanish childhood erotica enthusiasts. The logos were found during raids on computers and other items related to pedophile investigations.Yesterday, Democratic U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton was interviewed at FBI headquarters in Washington, D.C. during a process which took over three and a half hours.The interview was part of the ongoing probe by the FBI into Hillary Clinton's private email server, created and hosted at her home in Chappaqua, New York, which she reportedly used while she was Secretary of State. The FBI is investigating emails sent on this server, particularly any classified emails regarding the 2012 Benghazi attack that occurred on September 11, 2012 — eleven years after 9/11 — and left four US citizens dead.The interview comes at a problematic time for Clinton as she is the favorite for Democratic Party nomination for US President at the 2016 Democratic National Convention which is set to take place at the end of July. Any indictment could alter the result of the Democratic National Convention's decision on a nominee, paving the way for other politicians such as Bernie Sanders to receive the nomination.Both Clinton and the FBI have declined comment on the interview, but her spokesman Nick Merrill said Clinton is "pleased to have had the opportunity to assist the Department of Justice in bringing this review to a conclusion." The Justice Department reportedly hopes to conclude the investigation before the Democratic Convention at the end of July.GOP lawmakers are suggesting a conflict of interest after United States Attorney General Loretta Lynch reportedly met with Clinton's husband, former President Bill Clinton, on Lynch's plane at a Phoenix airport on Monday. This prompted Lynch to state on Friday she would accept the investigation's findings. Clinton and Lynch described it as a "short chance meeting" and "exchange of pleasantries". Lynch expressed her regret for the meeting, stating she "certainly wouldn't do it again". GOP lawmakers said the emails should be investigated by a third party, as they questioned the Department's impartiality.The FBI is expected to conclude their investigation sometime before the convention on July 25.The FBI has taken over a case covering several cities. Police found $250,000 in sealed bags, intercepted between Columbus, Ohio and Northeast Philadelphia. State troopers counting the cash became ill, and one was hospitalized. The cash is believed to be drug money.Sources told CBS 3 tests on the cash counter revealed the presence of a toxin derived from the bacteria staphylococcus. There is speculation the contamination may have been deliberate to prevent the money being tampered with in transit.FBI Spokesperson Jerri Williams said, “This is under investigation and we have no information to provide to the public at this time."A warning has been issued recommending that officers should take extra precaution and wear protective masks when handling suspected drug money.File:IPad-02.jpgThe United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has launched a probe into a security breach that allowed hackers to retrieve 114,000 e-mail addresses of iPad users on the AT&T network.The FBI announced the investigation Friday, which will determine exactly what allowed a group of hackers using the name "Goatse Security" to access the data. The security breach was first announced by the blog Gawker on Wednesday. The FBI has since asked Gawker Media LLC, the owners of the site, to retain all information relating to the incident. The company was also involved in another recent case with Apple Inc., which included the iPhone 4. Gawker said that it does not believe it is the main target of this FBI investigation.Editors at Gawker were able to verify the information the hackers sent to them, and did not post full e-mail addresses or any other identifying information in its initial story of the incident. Gawker said that it did not pay Goatse Security for the data. One of the hackers later wrote that they did not reveal the addresses to anyone else and had already deleted them.The hackers were able to obtain the data after discovering a program on AT&T's website that provides the e-mail address of a user when that user's identification number is given. The hackers essentially guessed and then saved the numbers for the 114,000 users. They did not tell AT&T of the security hole.A spokesperson for AT&T said Wednesday that the company "was informed by a business customer on Monday of the potential exposure of their iPad ICC-IDs [the identification numbers]", and had disabled the e-mail-providing program by Tuesday. AT&T also said that no other information was stolen other than the e-mails addresses of their customers, and that "there is no evidence that any other customer information was shared." The company says it will notify all of the iPad users whose information was compromised.Many of the users involved are high-ranking government or corporate officials, including Rahm Emanuel, the current White House Chief of Staff, and Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City. Others include employees of Google and the U.S. military.Apple has not commented about the breach.An explosion that took place in a barber shop next door to the Colorado Springs, Colorado office of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) yesterday is currently being investigated by the FBI's Joint Terrorism Task Force, as well as the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Officials said the explosive device was placed next to a can of gasoline but the gasoline did not ignite after the device detonated.The FBI are seeking a balding white male, aged about 40 years old, as a "person of interest" connected to the case. The FBI statement continued: "He may be driving a 2000 or older model dirty, white pick-up truck with paneling, a dark colored bed liner, open tailgate, and a missing or covered license plate".FBI Special Agent Amy Sanders said: "The investigation is ongoing and it is not known at this time if the NAACP or a business in the vicinity was the intended target".Gene Southerland, owner of Mr. G's Hair Design Studios, said: "I was cutting somebody's hair and I heard the explosion [...] It was such a loud explosion that some plastic containers fell off the shelf." Southerland continued: "Some neighbors came out and said they saw a Caucasian gentleman get into a white truck [...] It was such a beautiful day and everything, sunny. And in broad daylight, you hear this explosion. It's frightening".Henry Allen Jr, the president of the Colorado Springs branch of the NAACP, told reporters: "We'll move on. This won't deter us from doing the job we want to do in the community." The NAACP national office put out a statement stating that the group "looks forward to a full and thorough investigation into this matter by federal agents and local law enforcement".US Congressman Doug Lamborn told Colorado Springs newspaper The Gazette by email: "I'm thankful that none of the volunteers or employees of the Colorado Springs NAACP were injured in today's apparent bombing [...] I hope that the FBI investigation is able to swiftly apprehend the people responsible for this act of violence and intimidation."Warren Jeffs, the fugitive leader of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (FLDS) has been arrested in Nevada. Around 9 p.m. local time, he was arrested on Interstate 15 in Clark County, Nevada, north of Las Vegas, during a routine traffic stop when he was recognized by a local officer.  He was found to be carrying computers, 15 cell phones, disguises (3 wigs), and a total of more than $54,000 in cash with him in the vehicle.Jeffs' red 2007 Cadillac Escalade was pulled over because the vehicle's temporary plates from Colorado were not visible.  No weapons were found in the car or at the scene.  Naomi Jeffs, one of Jeffs' wives, and Isaac Steve Jeffs, his brother, were both in the vehicle and detained for questioning. Both were released and not charged with any crime.When questioned separately, Warren Jeffs and his brother gave inconsistent responses when asked where they were going, Warren saying Denver, and his brother saying Utah.  In addition, the officer responsible for the arrest, Eddie Duchover, stated that when initially pulling the car over, Jeffs would not make eye contact, and nervously ate a salad.  The officer also cited Jeffs' throbbing carotid artery as an indication that he had done something big.Jeffs, a recluse, was indicted last June on a sexual misconduct charge in Arizona; prosecutors allege he arranged marriages for under-age girls and older men. Reclusive for over a year, the FBI placed him on its 10 most wanted fugitives list. A $100,000 reward was offered for information leading to his capture. He now faces new charges of unlawful flight to avoid prosecution.It is not yet clear where Jeffs will be tried, though currently he is being held in Clark County jail (Las Vegas) pending a court hearing for the latest charge. He may be extradited to Arizona to face the additional charges there.The FLDS is a separatist movement that split off from the Mormon church more than a century ago due to the latter's changed views on polygamy. FLDS members (estimated at ten thousand) believe that a man must marry at least three times to enter heaven after death. The sect is based in Colorado City, Arizona and Hildale, Utah (although there are other compounds in other parts of America).Jeffs became leader of the group in 2002 after the death of the former leader, his father Rulon Jeffs.Since the terror threat tipping mayhem in Massachusetts, the governer and other officials have seemed to take it half seriously, and half not. Now the case is still being explored. A few days after the threats, terror suspects were identified in photos last night.  The United States Attorney Michael Sullivan spoke during a news conference at the Massachusetts Statehouse in Boston on the 20th concerning these terror suspects.Christopher Soghoian, 24, a doctoral student in information security at Indiana University, released a boarding pass generator for Northwest Airlines on October 25th.  In the release, he stated that it demonstrates flaws in airport security and the no-fly list.A few days later, on October 27th, Soghoian was visited by the FBI who told him to take down the site.  Soghoian complied with the FBI request.  However, the FBI then raided his apartment that evening; apparently due to lack of a warrant during the first visit.Representative Ed Markey (D-Mass.) had called for Soghoian to be arrested in October.Fake boarding passes are quite easy to create in Microsoft Word; assuming you have access to a old boarding pass for comparison.  Indeed, Amnesty International has created a similarly passable fake boarding pass for their AirTorture fundraising site. In February 2005, Senator Charles Schumer noticed this loophole in no-fly list.  He urged the TSA to "check every passenger's ID against the passenger's face and his boarding pass and ticket", as has been done immediately after the September 11th attacks.  TSA declined to follow the senator's recommendation.Mirrors of the fake boarding pass generator are available online.Last month, the FBI's Washington Field Office began an internal recruitment drive to staff a new anti-obscenity squad.  The job of the new squad would be to gather evidence against the "manufacturers and purveyors" of pornography, and would require eight agents, a supervisor and assorted support help.  The squad would not be concerned with child pornography, but instead focus on pornography that depicts, and is marketed to, consenting adults.  The squad would target bestiality, urination, defecation, and sadomasochistic behavior, which have a high rate of conviction in jury trials.The initiative is described as "one of the top priorities" of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, as well as FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III.  Gonzales has said that "adult pornography is a threat to families and children."  Christian groups, such as the Family Research Council who have criticized Gonzales for what they consider his weak stance on abortion, welcomed the initiative with "a growing sense of confidence in our new attorney general."Historians have criticized past FBI policies for focusing resources on cases which are easy to solve, especially stolen car cases, with the intent of boosting the agency's success rate.  Congress began funding the obscenity initiative in fiscal 2005 and specified that the FBI must devote 10 agents to adult pornography.The adult pornography initiative is seen as a "running joke" by many agents at larger offices which usually focus on national security, technology crimes, and public corruption.Hard-core pornography is seen as far more mainstream today, partly due to its availability on DirecTV, owned by Rupert Murdoch's News Corp., and on in-room television offerings at the Sheraton, Hilton, Marriott and Hyatt hotel chains.  Such companies are referred to as "white-collar pornographers" by Christian groups.The FBI has stated that they believe a dead body found in a white SUV in Chicago, Illinois, is that of 7-year-old Julian King. King was the nephew of American singer and Academy Award winning actress, Jennifer Hudson.King was kidnapped from his home in Chicago on Friday after someone shot and killed Hudson's mother, Darnell Donerson, 57 and brother, Jason, 29. An AMBER Alert was issued shortly after the incident, and on Sunday, a US$100,000 reward was offered for his safe return."[We found a body] who we believe to be the missing victim in Chicago, the nephew of Jennifer Hudson. We are working with Chicago police to get a positive identification of the victim," said the FBI in a statement. An autopsy is scheduled to take place on Tuesday.Police found the SUV, belonging to Jason, while searching for the boy on Monday. It had been parked in an area of brownstone houses and apartment buildings on the West-side of Chicago. It was found around 7:00 a.m. (CDT). Police searched the vehicle as it matched the description of the SUV sought in connection with the murder, kidnapping.Police have detained and questioned several people, and some reports say that includes William Balfour, who police previous thought to have kidnapped King. Reports say he is Julia's ex-boyfriend, having since been separated. Police deny that he is a suspect in either the murders or kidnapping and will not confirm or deny if he is or was in custody. So far no charges have been filed against anyone for the crimes.The Federal Bureau of Investigation is investigating allegations of wrongdoing in the building of a new $1.5 billion "skyway" portion of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge, according to a report published in the Oakland Tribune.  The bridge spans the San Francisco Bay between Oakland and Yerba Buena Island. There are so far no criminal charges filed.The paper reported that welders for KFM, the company under contract to build the bridge,  told authorities they were pressured – and even paid monthly bonuses of between $200 and $600 – for performing substandard welds on the support piers for the bridge if it meant the project proceeded faster. But Caltrans, the state agency in charge of building the bridge said their inspectors checked the welds and determined the work, although rushed, met safety standards."We've got good welds, good procedures and everything is in place to have a quality product. If a defect got in, we can't find it," Pete Siegenthaler, Caltrans project manager told the Tribune in an interview. A KFM spokesman told the Tribune that the welds are in "compliance with stringent Caltrans specifications."According to a report by Oakland television station, KTVU, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Labor and the U.S. Department of Transportation are joining the FBI in the investigation of the matter. The federal government is getting involved in the investigation because more than $1 million in U.S. taxpayer money was spent during its construction.If questionable welds are found in the support piers, according to reports, much of the new construction may have to be torn down to be rebuilt.The current 68-year-old span was damaged in the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake. At $6.2 billion total, the new bridge qualifies as the largest public works project in California's history.Brazilian federal police arrested Jesse James Hollywood, aged 25, in Saquarema city, Rio de Janeiro, on March 8.James had been sought by the FBI for more than four years.According to the police, he was living in Saquarema with a woman who is pregnant. His arrest occurred while they were in a mall.James was deported to the United States for trial. The two countries do not have a formal extradition treaty.On Friday, James appeared in a Santa Barbara, California court for arraignment on charges of kidnapping and murdering a 15-year-old boy.James will plead not guilty, according to his attorney, James E. Blatt.Blatt also criticized the portrait prosecutors had painted of his client."Have you ever seen a 20 year-old mastermind? He was not the shooter. He was not at the scene," said Blatt.Blatt requested that the trial be continued on April 4.The United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is currently investigating if a possible civil rights violation was committed by a sheriff's deputy of the San Bernardino County after the shooting of an unarmed U.S. Air Force Security Force officer.The military policeman, Senior Airman Elio Carrion, 21, was shot while on leave after serving a six month deployment in Iraq. The incident took place on Sunday, in Chino, California, after a short police chase. Carrion was the passenger of Luis Fernando Escobedo, 21, when police began chasing Escobedo's blue Chevrolet Corvette for speeding. The car reached over speeds of 100 mph (160 km/h) during the short five minute chase.After the chase ended in a crash near his house, Jose Luis Valdez began taping the accident aftermath. The grainy, low-quality videotape shows Carrion laying on the ground with the officer standing over him. The deputy appears to say, "Stay on the ground." The deputy then seems to say "Get up" several times. Carrion then said, "I'm going to get up." As Carrion begins to rise, the deputy fires three shots which hit Carrion in the chest, leg and side. After Carrion is hit he said, "I mean you no harm." The deputy responded by shouting "Shut the fuck up" twice, and then "You don't get up!" A neighbor is heard saying, "You told him to get up." The video shot by Valdez was given to police, with a copy sold by him to television station KTLA.Carrion is now in the hospital and in good condition. Cindy Beavers, a spokesperson for the San Bernardino County Sheriff's Department stated the deputy has been put on paid leave. Beavers also mentioned that Sheriff Gary Penrod had invited the FBI to join the investigation. The FBI released a statement confirming this. Penrod issued a statement on Monday saying, "As with all investigations, the circumstances involved in this shooting will be reviewed, it would be inappropriate for me to make any additional comments until the investigation is completed."Experts say the video is open to interpretation. Last week, in a similar but unrelated incident, a news helicopter caught footage of St. Louis, Missouri police officers using what appears to be excessive force on a suspect in detaining him.The U.S. Department of Justice has announced actions taken in eleven nations as part of the FBI's covert "Operation Site Down". The infiltration of so-called 'Topsites' resulted in searches, arrests, and seizures in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Israel, the Netherlands, Portugal and Great Britain in addition to the United States.Messages in response posted on a communications page for warez users read:RiSCISO, Myth, TDA, LND, Goodfellaz, Hoodlum, Vengeance, Centropy, Wasted Time, Paranoid, Corrupt, Gamerz, AdmitONE, Hellbound, KGS, BBX, KHG, NOX, NFR, CDZ, TUN, and BHP were all hit, and were all hit hard.EdN not pre'ing for awhile, investigations still going on!An email lists people targeted, updated in Mountain Time (UTC-7) at 6:31pm, 6:36pm, 6:38pm. The last update is at 6:41pm.The FBI began the sting in 2003, offering hosting for software cracks and movies. As the covert site infiltrated the underground warez and piracy community, it was repeatedly expanded to provide storage for an increasingly large collection of pirated material. Eventually it held some 27 terabytes of copyrighted files, including 188 copyrighted software titles valued at more than US$300,000.In the U.S.A. William Venya, 34, of Chatworth, Calif., Chirayu Patel, 23, of Fremont, Calif., Nate Lovell, 22, of Boulder, Colo., and David Fish, 24, of Watertown, Conn were all arrested on criminal complaints of copyright infringement and conspiracy to commit copyright infringement.The U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) said May 19 that it will require VoIP providers to route 911 calls to the appropriate local dispatch center. Under this new regulation the dispatch center is also required to be provided with the caller's callback number and location.  With the exception of Rhode Island, most VoIP's 911 callers are delivered to the administrative offices of a public-safety answering point, instead of connecting directly to a standard 911 dispatcher. The resulting time delay was a consequence of the phone provider's refusal to give VoIP providers access to the 911 infrastructure. To comply with this new regulation the VoIP providers  need the cooperation of the traditional phone providers. The FCC has not required the traditional phone providers to assist the VoIP providers with this, but a bill introduced in the House and Senate Wednesday would require them to provide the connection."The road to full compliance will not be easy, and the commission will almost certainly be called on to take further steps to bring it about, but we have begun the process," Commissioner Kathleen Q. Abernathy said.This new regulation comes after the death of a 3-month-old in Florida, partially due to delays in routing the call that was placed over a VoIP service."While they seem functionally the same, many [VoIP] callers find that they can't reach local emergency operators," said FCC Chairman Kevin Martin. "This situation is unacceptable. People have a reasonable expectation that when they dial 911, they are connected to the emergency operator."This new regulation is expected to become final in 30 to 45 days. When it does, the companies will have 120 days to comply.Cell phone makers have been required to install GPS chips in all phones. The chip is used the share the position of the phone to the nearest transmission tower in the event of an emergency. Newer cell phone models no longer have the option of turning off the location information sharing feature for emergencies. Location sharing for other services, such as a service that might report the nearest restaurant serving corned beef sandwiches when queried could be disabled, if that were the user's preference.The effects of 911 location sharing on law enforcement remains to be seen. Fugitives might leave their cell phones turned on. An arrest on I-95 occurred earlier this year near Richmond, VA, when a Florida fugitive was captured by accessing the cell phone location.A Federal Air Marshal decided to exit a Southwest Airlines flight today after dropping ammunition on the aircraft floor.  The incident occurred at Chicago’s Midway Airport.After earlier arriving from Philadelphia, the Marshal was on board a Southwest Airlines jet bound for Kansas City, when his gun’s clip fell to the aircraft floor, spilling bullets.  According to Southwest Airlines spokeswomen Whitney Eichenger "He picked up the bullets immediately."  She also added, "Since he was no longer traveling incognito, he decided not to continue on the flight to Kansas City."Because of the incident, the flight was delayed 45 minutes.A United States District federal judge ruled Thursday that the Bush administration's wiretapping program is "unconstitutional" and that it "must be halted immediately." The ruling came in a lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union(ACLU) challenging federal intelligence agencies'  eavesdropping of international phone calls without obtaining court warrants.The defendants, the National Security Agency (NSA), the Central Security Service and NSA Director and Chief of the Central Security Service, Lieutenant General Keith B. Alexander asserted that they cannot defend their case without exposing state secrets.Judge Anna Diggs Taylor, US District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, wrote in an opinion that the  defense argument was "without merit". "Defendants have supported these arguments without revealing or relying on any classified information," Taylor wrote in an opinion accompanying the ruling. Judge Taylor also ruled  that the tapping violates "the separation of powers enshrined in the Constitution, privacy and free speech."The Bush Administration has been firmly committed to the wiretapping, known as the Terrorist Surveillance Program  (TSP), and said the practice has a valid basis in law, despite public criticism. Defenders of the program contended that the President has the authority under the AUMF and the Constitution to authorize the continued use of the TSP.Judge Taylor wrote in her 43-page opinion that, "We must first note that the Office of the Chief Executive has itself been created, with its powers, by the Constitution. There are no hereditary Kings in America and no powers not created by the Constitution. So all 'inherent powers' must derive from that Constitution."The ACLU filed the lawsuit to protect the privacy and unreasonable search of lawful verbal exchanges by journalists, lawyers and scholars among others. The court order ruled that powers granted by TSP violated the U.S. Separation of Powers doctrine, the Administrative Procedure Act, and the First and Fourth Amendments. An appeal over the court decision is expected.  In 2001, President George W. Bush approved a program that allowed the NSA to monitor international calls for possible terrorist activity when one party to the call was outside U.S. territory. The government argued that the program is well within the president's authority. The Justice Department wrote, "In the ongoing conflict with al Qaeda and its allies, the president has the primary duty under the Constitution to protect the American people".Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld faces a federal lawsuit brought today by the American Civil Liberties Union and Human Rights First, filed in his home state of Illinois. The suit charges that he bears direct responsibility for the torture and abuse of detainees in U.S. military custody.The lawsuit was filed in federal court on behalf of eight men who were subject to torture and abuse at the hands of U.S. forces under Secretary Rumsfeld's command. The parties seek a court order declaring that Secretary Rumsfeld's actions are in violation of the U.S. Constitution, federal statutes and international law.A female boxer has been shot by her stepfather in her dressing room before a world championship title fight in Berlin, Germany. Lebanese born Rola El-Halabi was shot in the hands, knees, and feet while she was preparing for the fight. She survived the shooting but may never be able to return to the ring. Two security guards were also injured in the attack.El-Halabi has spoke about the shooting to German media saying "I was with my coach and manager in the changing room when Dad rushed into the room, threatening us with a gun and shouted 'All Out!'. Then he shot me in the hand from three feet away, I cried and cried, begging him to put the gun away. He threatened to shoot himself, but he was too cowardly. He took his time aiming and and shot me in the knee, then in my right foot."Malte Mueller-Michaelis, her promoter, commented on her condition saying "Her operation went smoothly, but the shots were intended to end her career and it seems almost certain that that will happen." It is believed that the shooting was due to El-Halabi's decision to stop working with her stepfather as her manager. The 26 year-old had been due to fight Irma Adler of Bosnia for the WIBF world lightweight title. El-Halabi has an undefeated record with 11 wins and is the former holder of two world titles.Female lawyers in Saudi Arabia may soon be granted limited court access for the first time. Mohammed al-Issa, the justice minister, said that the law was part of King Abdullah's ongoing reform to Saudi Arabia's judicial system. The law would allow female lawyers to represent other women at family-related cases, including marriage, divorce, and child custody.Saudi women that are educated in law are currently permitted to work in the female section of government and court offices. Positions of higher authority are reserved for the opposite sex. The Saudi government is also building specialized "personal status" or family courts where female lawyers will be permitted to practice.Women rights are strictly defined by Islamic Sharia law in Saudi Arabia. Employment and educational opportunities are dependent on a system of male guardianship. For example, a female under the age of 45 must gain the approval of a male before traveling.According to the BBC, the law and other minor changes are steps in the direction of easing restrictions placed on Saudi women.A suicide bombing in Iraq has killed at least 40 people and injured at least 72 more, according to local police. The suicide bomber, a woman wearing an abaya, a robe-like dress, struck near the entrance of a revered Shiite shrine Imam Moussa Al-kadhim Sunday morning in the Kadhimiya neighborhood. The attack comes during a Shia pilgrimage where many Iranians were celebrating the Shia holy Day of Ashura. Sunday's bombing came during Muharram, the first month of the Islamic calendar, among the holiest months for all Shiites Muslims, who prepare to commemorate the martyrdom of Imam Hussein, Prophet Muhammad's grandson, who was killed during a  680 battle in Karbala. A similar attack was perpetrated nine days after a December 26 car bomb exploded a minibus near the same holy shrine, which honors Khadim, considered the Seventh Imam, and killed at least 24 people and wounded 46 others.Police dispersed a group of activists who had gathered at the Haft-e Tir square in Tehran on Monday, reportedly using pepper spray and beating up some of the protestors. The group was staging a demonstration calling for equal treatment for women under the Iranian law and better protection of their rights. The Iranian Justice minister Jamal Karimirad later said that 70 people were detained in connection with the event, of whom 42 were women. He also said that the reports of police beating up the protestors were being reviewed. The activists were protesting against gender discrimination in Iranian law, which is partly based on the Islamic Sharia law. Women have had the right to vote and be elected to the Majlis (parliament) since 1963, but under the prevailing laws, they are excluded from constitutional posts such as Judge and President and their testimony in court is only worth half of that of a man. Similarly, "Blood Money" or compensation paid to the family of a murdered woman is only half of that for a man. The protestors were calling for equal divorce and custody rights for women, reform of inheritance laws, as well as a ban on polygamy.On Thursday, Hatice Cengiz, fiancée of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, addressed reporters in New York, New York, calling for the killers of Khashoggi to be brought to justice. Cengiz traveled to New York for the United Nations (UN) General Assembly which took place this week. Khashoggi was murdered last October in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, Turkey. Hatice Cengiz is a Turkish national now living in London.The previous day, television broadcaster PBS revealed that in December, Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman of Saudi Arabia accepted responsibility for the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi but did not say he'd ordered it.  Speaking to Martin Smith of PBS, he said, "It happened under my watch. I get all the responsibility, because it happened under my watch." The official position remained that rogue operatives within the Saudi government committed the murder. According to Reuters and NBC, Mohammad bin Salman is the de facto Saudi ruler.Cengiz called Mohammad's admission a "political maneuver." She explained, "By confessing this, he's also distancing himself from the killing of Jamal [...] He's saying that it happened under his watch but he means he is not involved in this crime." She credited news media with keeping the story alive. Speaking to NBC News, she said, "His fellow journalists did their best that so no one could push this under the carpet [...] But at the end of the day, all of these efforts did not persuade world leaders to sanction Saudi Arabia. That is so sad"."What is so sad for me", Cengiz said, "is not seeing the punishment of the perpetrators [...] Imagine that the entire world remains silent over Jamal's killing. This silence and inertia created huge disappointment on my side."Agnès Callamard, a UN rapporteur for the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights who had investigated the case, cautioned justice does not come swiftly. "True justice takes time and I know it's painful, but that's the reality of the world we live in," she said, asking Cengiz to be "patient and resilient."The CIA and other intelligence agencies reportedly believe the crown prince ordered Khashoggi's killing. Callamard encouraged the CIA to release the files from their investigation. A closed-door trial is underway in Saudi Arabia in which eleven individuals have been charged with the murder, however Callamard did not give it any credence.Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi national, was a columnist for The Washington Post, and he lived in self-imposed exile in Virginia as a legal resident of the United States. He entered the consulate in Istanbul on October 2 2018, seeking documents allowing him to marry Turkish national Hatice Cengiz. He never came out. Saudi Arabia initially denied all claims that Khashoggi was slain, however, a UN report eventually concluded evidence supported his murder and dismemberment inside the consulate by Saudi agents. To date, his remains had not been recovered.FIFA, the world's governing body for football (soccer), and the European Union are set to collide over the controversial 6+5 Rule.The problem is that FIFA wants to limit the number of foreign players in the starting 11 to a maximum 5 players per side while the European Union allows free movement of workers making FIFA's 6+5 Rule illegal within the European Union.Despite the legal issue about the 6+5 Rule within the European Union, FIFA President Sepp Blatter presented the 6+5 Rule to FIFA Congress where the member national associations of FIFA would vote on examining the issue further.The FA in England was quoted on their website saying, "At today's meeting of the FIFA Congress in Sydney, The FA voted in favour of further exploration of the "6+5" rule proposed by FIFA President Sepp Blatter." The FA further said, "The resolution, adopted overwhelmingly by the Congress, requested that the FIFA and UEFA Presidents work with key figures within the world of sport to examine how the proposal might work within the limits of the law."The FA, the national association for England, indicated that having more "high-quality English players" is an "absolute priority."A reservation of the FA is the legality of the 6+5 Rule but they "welcome further exploration of its legality."Spain and Real Madrid Goalkeeper, Iker Casillas, has also indicated to be in favour of FIFA's 6+5 Rule stating, it would be "exceptional" for players developed for "Homegrown player."On May 8, the European Union voted against the 6+5 Rule and have indicated that they will take legal action against any national association within the European Union that introduces FIFA's 6+5 Rule.Depending if and how fast FIFA gets their way, the 6+5 rule can be implemented as soon as 2012 with smaller variations leading the way to 2012.The adjudicatory chamber of FIFA (International Federation of Association Football)'s independent ethics committee has opened up proceedings against former FIFA Vice-President Jeffrey Webb. In a statement released on Wednesday the ethics committee recommended Mr Webb receive a lifelong ban from all footballing activities for multiple violations of the articles of the FIFA Code of Ethics. Mr Webb was indicted on corruption charges by the United States Department of Justice, and pled guilty in November to one count of racketeering conspiracy, three counts of wire fraud conspiracy and three of money laundering conspiracy.He is the former President of CONCACAF, the confederation for North America, Central America and Caribbean footballing associations,  Vice-President of FIFA, and President of the Cayman Islands Football Association. Mr Webb is to be given the opportunity to submit his position before a ruling by FIFA is handed down.Fifteen people were shot dead on Wednesday in the western Mexican state of Nayarit. The attack occurred in a car wash in the city of Tepic, and, according to the state attorney general, was the work of a drug cartel. All 15 killed were workers at the Gamboa car wash."The workers were all men; they were washing cars when the gunmen, probably members of organized crime, drove up in SUVs and started opening fire," a spokesman for the state attorney general said on Wednesday. Pictures of the scene show bodies on the roadside with blood pooling at their heads.The massacre, which was just blocks away from federal offices, resulted in the closure of schools and businesses in the area. It is not yet clear what the motive was behind the attack, although men who work at Mexican car washes are often spies for drug gangs.This slaying is the third major murder in six days. On Friday, cartels killed fourteen people and wounded a nine year-old boy in Ciudad Juarez, a major battleground for fighting drug cartels. Two days later, hit men killed another 14 people in Tijuana. Both cities are major cities on the United States border; however, Nayarit is a quiet resort state that has largely been free of drug violence until now.According to witness reports, a bombing in the Somali capital of Mogadishu has killed fifteen people, including ten women who were cleaning the street at the time of the attack. Farah Abdi, one of the witnesses, said that "it was an ugly scene with blood everywhere. I could not count the dead, I just glanced at once and I ran away for my life."No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attacks, although BBC News states a possible link with Islamist insurgents, who are currently fighting the Ethiopian troops.A spokesperson for the local hospital reported that 35 wounded people were admitted to their hospital, most of them woman or children.Hasan Abdi Mohamed, another eyewitness, also described the scene at the time of the blast. "They [the victims] were cleaning the street when this huge explosion rocked the entire neighbourhood," he said. "I counted 15 bodies, most of them are women who were torn to pieces." The attack come after a period of a low level of violence caused by a peace deal that was signed between the government and insurgents.According to the United Nations, one and a half million people have left Somalia to escape from the violence, which, according to one estimate, has resulted in eight thousand civilians being killed since January 2007.On Wednesday, the attorneys general of fifteen U.S. states filed a lawsuit against United States President Donald Trump for ending the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy, or DACA, which placed a moratorium on the deportation of undocumented immigrants who had come to the U.S. while they were still minors.  They argue that Trump's decision to resume deportation was based on racism and therefore illegal and that deporting DACA beneficiaries would harm the economies of their respective states.The suit reads, in part: "Ending DACA, whose participants are mostly of Mexican origin, is a culmination of President Trump's oft-stated commitments — whether personally held, stated to appease some portion of his constituency, or some combination thereof — to punish and disparage people with Mexican roots." The greatest number of DACA beneficiaries are from Mexico, and the next most common countries of birth are El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras.According to New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman, his state is home to 42,000 DACA participants, also called dreamers, after the DREAM Act, a proposed law that would have made something similar to the DACA program a law rather than an executive policy. "Dreamers play by the rules. Dreamers work hard. Dreamers pay taxes. For most of them, America is the only home they've ever known. And they deserve to stay here," he said.  According to the lawsuit, 50 DACA participants are students at Harvard University, one the most prestigious schools in the U.S.At the U.S. government's last count, the DACA program covered 787,580 people. It allowed undocumented immigrants who had come to the U.S. under the age of 16 and were no older than 30 in 2012 to apply for temporary federal permits for legal residency, which expire after two years.  These in turn allow them to file for work permits and drivers' licenses.  It made it much easier for them to attend four-year colleges and for the government to collect income tax.  The Trump administration describes this as a phasing out rather than an immediate cancellation.  Some DACA participants will be allowed to renew their permits, but only until October and only for participants whose existing permits would expire by next March.President Trump invited Congress to take action on the dream issue: "We will resolve the DACA issue with heart and compassion — but through the lawful Democratic process — while at the same time ensuring that any immigration reform we adopt provides enduring benefits for the American citizens we were elected to serve," President Trump told the press on Tuesday. "We must also have heart and compassion for unemployed, struggling, and forgotten Americans." Under the new Trump policy, if Congress does not pass a law establishing a program for DACA participants, 300,000 would lose legal status next year.Washington State Attorney General Bob Ferguson, accompanied by now-adult DACA recipients who work for the state legislature, announced to the press, "It's outrageous, it's not right[...] As attorney general for the state of Washington, I have a hammer, it's the law." Ferguson also sued Donald Trump earlier this year over a travel ban prohibiting people from seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States.DACA was not a law but rather an executive policy established by Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama.  The U.S. Constitution gives the legislative branch of the government, Congress, the duty of establishing laws but the executive branch, headed by the President, the duty of enforcing them.  The DACA program was examined by lawyers from the U.S. Department of Justice in 2014, and they determined then-President Barack Obama did have the authority to decline to enforce existing immigration laws in this way.The suit was filed by attorneys general from North Carolina, Hawaii, Washington, New York, Illinois, Iowa, Oregon, New Mexico, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Vermont, and Rhode Island and the country's capital, Washington D.C., all of whom are Democrats.  The attorney general of California, home to one out of four DACA participants, stated intent through a spokesperson to file a separate lawsuit.A fifth child has died as a result of a police pursuit that ended in a crash in Dinuba, California on Sunday, August 9. Carlos Eric Salazar, aged 8, was the eighth victim to die as a result of the crash.On Sunday, four children were among seven that were killed when the pursued suspect who, after refusing to stop for police, slammed into the GMC Sierra pickup truck carrying a family, two adults and five children. The family was on their way to attend a football game for youths when the crash occurred. Four of the children were ejected from the truck and died at the scene. The two adults and one child were taken to Community Regional Medical Center located in Fresno.Both vehicles collided with lemon trees at an orchard near the intersection of Avenue 424 and Road 120 in Dinuba.  Three people, including the suspect, were in a stolen 2005 Dodge Neon and also died at the scene.  Their identities are not yet known as none of them were carrying identification.The other children were named Sienna Salazar aged 1, Michael aged 3, Monique aged 4 and Jocelyn aged 7. The two adults, Carlos Salazar Jr., 29, and Jennifer, 26, remain in the hospital where they are recovering from their injuries. None of the victims in the pickup were wearing seat belts, according to Fox News.A serial killer on Mumbai's streets killed yet another person last night; making the latter one of five young men murdered recently. The body of a 20-year-old unidentified man was found in a secluded spot on the railway tracks between Churchgate and Grant Road, his head was crushed by a 10 kg stone. A senior police official said that they had found food at the crime scene, indicating that the victim had been offered it before being bludgeoned.The police are awaiting the post-mortem report to confirm whether this victim, like the others before him, had been sexually assaulted before being murdered. This attack comes just a day after another body was found a kilometre away, near the Wankhede Stadium rail bridge. Police say that the perpetrator may have claimed up to eight lives so far, although his role has only been confirmed in four cases. The killer, suspected to be a man in his late 20s, targets young, male ragpickers in South Mumbai, killing them in the early morning and leaving a beer can at the scene of the crime.Although the latest killing appears to be the work of the same man, Railway Police officials are wary of declaring this homocide as the work of the same perpetrator, saying there were "similarities as well as differences in the modus operandi of the murderer". Mumbai Police have established a 90-man team tasked with nabbing the serial killer, who a senior police official compared to Raman Raghav, who bludgeoned 9 pavement dwellers in their sleep in the 60s.Five fifth grade students were charged with obscenity after allegedly having sex in an unattended classroom. Two 11-year-old girls, a 12-year-old boy, and a 13-year-old boy were charged with obscenity, a felony. An 11-year-old boy was posted as a lookout at the door to watch for teachers. The lookout has been charged as an accessory.Local authorities said the incident occurred on March 27th, with 10 other students in the classroom at the time the incident took place. Local sherriff Bob Buckley told the Associated Press that "...after 44 years of work, nothing shocks me. But this comes pretty close."The students were alone for about 15 minutes. Authorities did not learn of the incident until a day later, on March 28th. A student, who asked to remain anonymous, told a high school student, who reported it to a teacher, who subsequently told the local officials.Gun battles erupted today as the Internal Security Forces of Lebanon, mainly the police and the Lebanese Army, tried to arrest suspects of a bank robbery that occurred a day earlier in Amyoun, southeast Tripoli. Clashes erupted between the Lebanese Army and a Palestinian Islamist group, Fatah al-Islam, in the Nahr al-Bared Palestinian refugee camp early morning just after police raided a militant-occupied apartment. Twenty-two ISF personnels and over ten militants and civilians were killed or injured.Fatah al-Islam is a Palestinian Islamist group believed to be supported by neighboring Syria, which is accused by the Lebanese government of attempting to destabilize the country. However, the leader of Fatah al-Islam is on the run from Syrian authorities, and Syria has shut down two of its border crossings into Lebanon for security reasons.As the battle between the ISF and the Islamist group went on, Fatah al-Islam warned that the "Gates of Hell" would be opened all over Lebanon if the ISF did not back down. As a result of this warning, crossing into northern parts of Lebanon has been suspended until further notice.Three teen-aged sisters went missing on Sunday, June 26th, and Fijian police have called in navy divers to aid in the search.Ashika Sherin Lata, 19, Renuka Roshni Lata, 18 and Radhika Roshni Lata, 17 were taken on a boat trip to Malake island near Viti Levu by a family friend. The friend "was found alone in the boat and then he informed the family that he was assaulted by three Fijians", Constable Prashila Narayan told Radio New Zealand International.Divisional Crime Officer Vijay Singh reported additional officers have been called in on the case, but told Fijilive that the navy divers were necessary for the case."Until [the navy divers come in] we are just searching around the island where they disappeared and hopefully try and get clues as to which direction they may have been heading."Fiji’s fourth coup in 20 years rose today as troops disarmed Fiji's only armed police unit. This is the first step in the long expected military coup.Fiji's president dissolved parliament on Tuesday and sanctioned the military to remove embattled Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase, said New Zealand Prime Minister Helen ClarkQarase, who is in his residence in Suva, said the military was staging a coup and he would not resign but would have to be forcibly removed from office."I am not going anywhere," Qarase told Reuters."I am the democratically elected prime minister of the people of Fiji. They will have to move me by force.""I have been advised this morning that the president of Fiji has acted outside his constitutional powers and supported the removal of the democratic prime minister by the military," Clark said in a statement to the New Zealand parliament.Acting Police Commissioner Moses Driver denied that any take over had occurred. He said soldiers arrived to inspect police weapons, and were waiting for approval for that inspection. Troops later surrounding the Nasova Police Academy in Suva demanding the handover of weapons, and occupied the main police station in Suva. No shots were fired when the police were locked out.At a news conference inside the main Suva barracks, Commander Frank Bainimarama said that police weapons were confiscated so that "dissidents" did not use them against the military.There are also reports that military checkpoints are been set up around the capital. There are approximately four roadblocks with 20 soliders at each.Troops tried to arrest the Prime Minister of Fiji, Laisenia Qarase, in the afternoon by setting up a roadblock between Suva and the province where Mr Qarase was attending a meeting, but he escaped in a helicopter, and has since been in hiding. The Prime Minister and his cabinet are understood to be in safe, secure places, and some of them separated for extra security. The army kept up the pressure on Mr Qarase when he was later summoned to President Ratu Josefa Iloilo's residence.Mr Qarase drove to the estate, but was told by soldiers at a roadblock outside that he would have to walk the rest of the way. A witness inside the grounds said the prime minister, whose bodyguards were also disarmed by the military, refused and returned to his office.Mr Qarase will make another attempt to meet President Iloilo on Tuesday morning.Military chief Commander Frank Bainimarama had repeatedly threatened to remove Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase's government unless it drops several pieces of legislation, including a bill that would grant amnesty to those involved in a coup in 2000. Commander Bainimarama has laid allegations on PM Qarase of stalling his pledge of ditching of the controversial legislation. However Bainimarama is denying a coup is under way. "This is not a coup," Bainimarama said today. "Everything is normal. Nothing is going on." He had earlier imposed a deadline of noon (0000GMT) on Friday, December 1 but that deadline was extended to today as there was the annual rugby game between the police and the military. Commander Bainimarama is both an avid rugby fan and active church goer. The police won the rugby game. "I maintain my demands and the deadline still stands and I will make a commitment to my stand after the rugby match," he said.Mr Qarase told Fiji radio on Monday morning that he remained in control and has called an emergency cabinet meeting for Tuesday.Fiji's Great Council of Chiefs called for calm on Monday and for the military to return to negotiations with the government.Local radio reported seven government vehicles used by ministers and parliament's Speaker had been confiscated by the military since Monday night.World leaders have commended Commander Bainimarama actions. Including New Zealand which has banned Commander Bainimarama from entering New Zealand except if he is attending political crises talks. Helen Clark described the situation as "...it's a very disturbing situation." Some of Commander Bainimarama's close family live in New Zealand.Conditions on the street of Fiji are said to be mixed, with some apprehension.The United Nations might discontinue use of Fijian soldiers in peacekeeping operations of which is a large source of Fiji's income. Also the British army might not use Fijian soldiers. The International Community have said they will discontinue aid to Fiji which is worth millions annually.At an urgent meeting held today in London the Commonwealth has decided to suspend Fiji, following the military coup that took place in Fiji three days ago. The suspension is immediate.The decision was made unanimously by the Ministerial Action Group. The group contained eight foreign ministers from Commonwealth countries, including United Kingdom. Don McKinnon, secretary general of the Commonwealth, described the coup as a: "a serious violation of the Commonwealth's fundamental principles." Mr McKinnon said: "Fiji's military regime should forthwith be suspended from the Councils of the Commonwealth pending the restoration of democracy and the rule of law in that country. It would be our endeavour to obviously engage with the regime as soon as we can in order to do what we can to bring the country back to democracy."The suspension results in Fiji not taking part in any Commonwealth meetings nor activities. However existing technical assistance will continue but no new assistance programmes will be started.The military coup that took place a few days ago has already been condemned by Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Fiji's Council of Chiefs and religious groups. New Zealand has barred the military leader and president of Fiji, Commander Frank Bainimarama, from visiting New Zealand where some of his family live and has also banned seasonal workers coming from Fiji to work in New Zealand.Commander Bainimarama has sworn in Doctor Jona Senilagakali as the caretaker Prime Minster. Dr Senilagakali is an old military medic and relatively new at politics.A committee of the Fijian Parliament has been receiving submissions this week on its controversial legislation aimed at establishing a Commission with the power to compensate victims and pardon perpetrators of the civilian coup d'état led by George Speight, which deposed the elected government of Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry in May 2000.Few pieces of legislation in Fijian history have generated such passionate support and opposition from different quarters.  Public opinion polls show that the great majority of Indo-Fijians are opposed to the legislation, along with a large minority of indigenous Fijians.  Supporters of the bill, being promoted by Prime Minister Laisenia Qarase and Attorney-General Qoriniasi Bale, argue that it will bring closure to the wounds of the 2000 coup and allow the country to move on.  Opponents say that it is just a legal mechanism for releasing from prison supporters of the present government, who were convicted of coup-related offenses.  For its parliamentary majority, the government relies on its coalition partner, the Conservative Alliance, several of whose senior members have been found guilty of involvement in the coup.Opponents of the bill include Roman Catholic Archbishop Petero Mataca, who shocked many people last week with his claims that a delegation of church leaders, representing a variety of denominations, had been misled by Prime Minister Qarase about what the bill contained.  At a meeting on May 2, Mataca said, the Prime Minister had told them about its compensation provisions, but had kept them in the dark about its amnesty clauses - which they learned about only later through the media.  The clergymen had supported the bill at the time, he said, because they believed in reconciliation and forgiveness.  The later revelations about the amnesty provisions had come as a complete surprise to them, he said.  Archbishop Mataca condemned what he said was "a politically motivated bill" and called on the government to withdraw it.  Rev. Josateki Koroi, the former president of the Methodist Church, which claims the membership of some two-thirds of indigenous Fijians, has also expressed grave reservations about the bill, saying that reconciliation cannot be legislated and must begin with true repentance on the part of the wrongdoer - something he believes has not happened.Politicians opposed to the bill include the leaders of all of the Indo-Fijian dominated parties, including former Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry.  Indigenous politicians to have spoken out against the bill include Senator Adi Koila Nailatikau (the daughter of former President Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara, who was deposed in the coup) and her brother-in-law, Ratu Epeli Ganilau, founder of the National Alliance Party and son of former President Ratu Sir Penaia Ganilau.  Ganilau, a former military commander, has called it "an insult to the intelligence of ordinary people" and has warned that the armed forces could use it as a legal mechanism to remove a present or future government, while Nailatikau, who was kidnapped and held as a hostage by the insurrectionists, has said that if her father were alive, he would not approve of tampering with the course of justice.  One of the most strident voices raised against the legislation is that of the Military commander, Commodore Frank Bainimarama.  Bainimarama, who organized a counter-coup to quash the Speight rebellion in 2000, has been making press statements on almost a daily basis since the middle of May, condemning the legislation as undermining the integrity of the military and the judiciary.  He has made a number of veiled statements, interpreted by some politicians as threats, about what the military might do if the bill is passed.  Last week, the Fiji Times, Fiji's oldest daily newspaper, quoted an anonymous source, which it claimed was reliable, that President Ratu Josefa Iloilo (who is rumoured to be against the legislation) had refused a government request to "discipline" Bainimarama.  Under the Constitution, the President has very little political power but is Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.Supporters of the bill include former Prime Minister Sitiveni Rabuka and some traditional chiefs.Many Fiji citizens have been showing their support for the bill by wearing blue ribbons, or their opposition by wearing yellow ones.Qoriniasi Bale said two days ago that unless opponents of the bill could make more constructive suggestions for improving it, parliament would most likely pass it without any changes.Popular file-sharing site The Pirate Bay was sold yesterday for 60 million Swedish krona (£4.7 million).  Swedish gaming company Global Gaming Factory (GGF) was the purchaser, paying half the price in cash and the rest in shares of the company.In April 2009, the owners of The Pirate Bay, Frederik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, Carl Lundstrom and Peter Sunde, were found guilty of copyright infringement, fined SEK30 million and sentenced to a year in jail.  They are currently appealing the sentence, with allegations the judge, being a member of various copyright protection lobbies, was not impartial.GGF has plans to start paying for copyright content linked from the site, although it is unclear exactly how this will work at the moment.Peter Sunde was quoted as saying, "We feel that we can't take The Pirate Bay any further. We're in a bit of a frozen situation where there's not much happening and there are neither people nor money to develop things."Hans Pandeya, the head of GGF, said in a statement, "We would like to introduce models which entail that content providers and copyright owners get paid for content that is downloaded via the site.  Content creators and providers need to control their content and get paid for it."It is also unclear what will happen to the newly launched site, The Video Bay. Launched by The Pirate Bay founders, it will offer streaming of copyrighted content.One of the world's largest distributors of Filesharing software, LimeWire, has been placed under permanent injunction by the US District Court in the Southern District of New York, to cease distributing and supporting its software.  The injunction, requested by multiple parties including Bertelsmann Music Group, Motown, Capitol Records, and Sony Entertainment, was filed and approved 26th October and was issued under Title 17 U.S.C §502, covering infringement of copyright.The injunction states that LimeWire "intentionally encouraged direct infringement" and "...failed to implement any meaningful technological barriers or design choices aimed at diminishing infringement."  Since the order was approved, LimeWire has closed its website, posting a notice on the front page explaining the situation, with a link to a copy of the injunction.As ordered, the software is no longer downloadable from its website. LimeWire is now only responding to inquiries from the press and paid customers of LimeWire Pro. LimeWire could not be reached for comment.Popular Filipino social commentator and tour guide Carlos Celdran staged a protest action in Manila, Philippines against church opposition to the Reproductive Health Bill. Dressed as Jose Rizal, Celdran, 37, entered Manila Cathedral during a mass with Manila Mayor Alfredo Lim, Manila Archbishop Gaudencio Cardinal Rosales, the Papal Nuncio Archbishop Edward Adams, and other Catholic bishops present, standing before the altar with a sign bearing the word "Damaso" — a reference to the villainous, power-wielding Spanish friar from Rizal's novel Noli Me Tangere, who represents the abuses of the Catholic Church during the 19th century Spanish occupation of the Philippines. He shouted "Stop getting involved in politics!" before he was taken away by the police at around 4:30 p.m. Once outside, Celdran said the Church officials "need to hear what the Filipinos are saying: that 90 percent of the people want the RH [Reproductive Health Bill]."At around 8:15 p.m. the Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines filed charges against Celdran for violation of Article 133 of the Revised Penal Code, which prohibits "offending religious feelings." Sorsogon Bishop Arturo Bastes, who previously headed the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of the Philippines-Episcopal Commission for the Biblical Apostolate (CBCP-ECBA), said, "What is approved by people does not mean it is approved by God." Celdran reported in a media interview following his arrest that "I kinda showed the [priests] what [civil disobedience] was like. The Millennium Development Goals of the Philippines hinge on controlling the population and maternal health, but they have done nothing but lie and blackmail...the Presidents and deprive the poorest of the poor of reproductive health services." He had announced the action via tweet the previous day, saying: "Carlos Celdran is going to go to Manila Cathedral at 3pm to COUNTER the CBCP/Bible anti-RH group. Anyone want to join me?"Celdran has been tweeting and giving media interviews from his jail cell. Through Twitter he expressed surprise that the Catholic Bishop's Conference of the Philippines filed charges. He faces up to five years in prison. At approximately 5:25am Manila time, he tweeted "its just hitting me now. I can't believe the CBCP [Catholic Bishop's Conference of the Philippines] has the capacity and the desire to see me jailed. Who is next?"It appears that this action was part of a larger program of protest, as the previous day he had invited his Facebook friends to a flash mob photo opportunity in front of the Catholic Bishop's Conference of the Philippines taking place October 1, where he reported he would be wearing a bishop's costume.Celdran was freed almost a day later on 6,000-peso (US$138) bail. Friends of the artist had set up a Facebook fan page calling for his release, drawing more than 12,000 supporters by the time he posted bail."I apologize for being rude, but it was necessary for me to be rude," he told reporters while in custody on Thursday. "I am sorry for the method that I used but I have no apologies for the message that I made."In a statement Friday, Manila's 238 priests expressed "disapproval and condemnation" of the protest."These actions cannot by any means be considered within the purview of freedom of expression," the statement said. "Instead they were malicious acts directed towards a faith, a religion that was represented by its leaders and the faithful gathered."President Benigno Aquino's support of the people's right to contraception has angered the Catholic Bishop's Conference of the Philippines and galvanized church opposition to the Reproductive Health Bill, that calls for contraceptives to be provided in government hospitals and sex education to be taught in public schools."We are approaching these issues from the moral aspect like the unborn. Abortion is a grave crime, excommunication is attached to those (acts). That is an issue of gravity. That is a violation of God’s commandment," said Odchimar over the Church-run Radio Veritas.Malacañang Palace shrugged off Odchimar’s declaration. "We are guided by our conscience. My position has not changed. The state’s duty is to educate our families as to their responsibilities and to respect their decisions if they are in conformity to our laws,” President Aquino said.Proponents of the Reproductive Health Bill have argued that rapid population growth and high fertility rates have exacerbated crushing poverty, and birth control could be a powerful way to raise living standards.An officer of the regional chapter of Bagong Alyansang Makabayan (Bayan) in Tacloban City, Leyte survived an assassination attempt last Saturday January 27 at around 8 o'clock in the evening.Flor Acbo, 54, was believed to be the primary target of unidentified motorcycle-riding men who fired shots right in front of the Bayan's regional office in Eastern Visayas and wounded the leg of a man nearby.Acbo said in an interview that the incident failed to douse his conviction, and condemned the "cowardly attempt on his life"."It just shows how effective my work in exposing anomalies in government as well the abuses being perpetrated by the military. Instead of being cowed, this would strengthen my conviction to fight for the rights of the oppressed," he proudly voiced out.The police have yet to complete their investigation.Acbo, 54, is Bayan regional information officer for two years now.He said he and his friend Bobby Bongcaras had just alighted from a passenger jeepney, a few meters from his house when one of two men riding a motorcycle fired at them.According to a report, Acbo and Bongcaras ran towards their respective houses, while the two assailants fled towards the downtown area of this city.The bystander who was hit was identified as Eric de Guzman, 27, also a resident of the same area. De Guzman, who was hit on his left foot, was brought to the Eastern Visayas Regional Medical Center for treatment, report said.Police Superintendent Anaclito Limbo, Tacloban City police chief, said the gunman used a .45 caliber pistol. The police were investigating the shooting as of press time, Limbo was quoted saying.Limbo said they had yet to determine whether the attempt to kill Acbo could be due to his involvement with Bayan.Acbo ran and lost as mayor of Pinabacdao town in Samar during the 1988 elections under the banner Partido ng Bayan.He also worked as the town's sanitary inspector and was once connected with the Commission on Population regional office.The sole United States manufacturer of a key component of lethal injections announced Friday that it will cease production of the drug, contributing to shortages and delaying executions.Sodium thiopental, the first of a three drug cocktail used in 34 states to render the prisoner to be executed unconscious, was manufactured in Italy until Italian authorities stated that they would only license the manufacture if it was used for medical purposes and not, crucially, for executions.In a statement, the company, Hospira, said that they have never condoned the use of their drug, marketed as 'Pentothal', in executions, and that they could not "prevent the drug from being diverted to departments of corrections for use in capital punishment procedures".The move means that the United States is without a viable supplier for sodium thiopental. Although many European countries manufacture the drug, which is primarily used in Europe as an anæsthetic, no manufacturer has been found that is willing to supply it for use in conjunction with the death penalty, the abolition of which has been lobbied by the EU since 2008.The shortage means that executions in California and Oklahoma have been delayed, with Texas' last remaining stocks of the drug due to expire in March, weeks before two scheduled executions. These delays are likely to be prolonged as the legal process of drawing up new drugs to be used for injections is lengthy. Pentobarbital, an alternative which used at the Dignitas clinic in Switzerland, is used for lethal injections in Oregon, and has started to be used by Oklahoma.Hospira's decision caused mixed reactions throughout the medical community, with the American Society of Anesthesiologists stating Monday that sodium thiopental is an "important and medically necessary anesthetic agent" that is a "first-line anesthetic in many cases", citing geriatric and cardiovascular conditions, among others. It said that, although they disagree with the death penalty, "we also do not condone using the issue as the basis to place undue burdens on the distribution of this critical drug to the United States. It is an unfortunate irony that many more lives will be lost or put in jeopardy as a result of not having the drug available for its legitimate medical use."Finland is considering toughening gun legislation in light of this week's Jokela school shooting. Nine people, including the gunman, were killed when Pekka-Eric Auvinen, 18, went on a shooting spree at his local school.Until now, Finland has actively resisted plans for all European Union member states to limit gun ownership to persons aged 18 and over. Currently, the law stipulates that Finns may apply for a gun permit at age 15.However, Anne Holmlund, Finnish interior minister, told reporters today that "Finland has changed its position to the EU firearms directive." Holmlund told the press that the intention is now to raise the age for ownership to 18, and require those aged 15-18 to be under parental supervision when carrying or using a firearm.Prime minister of Finland Matti Vanhanen had earlier commented that the shooting would likely cause a change in Finnish gun control policy, but Holmlund denied a direct connection. "There is no direct link (to the school shooting). ... It is important that our new position is clear," Holmlund said."We were the only EU member country that was willing to keep its regulations untouched and it was obvious we would be left alone." She added."As all other EU countries are ready to accept the age limit of 18 years for the acquisition of firearms ... Finland does not want to oppose the said amendment to the directive under the circumstances.""The cabinet is ready to agree on a proposal which says that those under 18 years old can use a gun only under parental or adult guidance," commented cabinet spokeswoman Sanna Kangasharju.Ministry spokesman Ilkka Salmi agreed that a potential change in legislation was being considered months beforehand, but added that, "It's obvious that this kind of tragic incident has probably sped up the decision."Auvinen had obtained a license for his .22 caliber handgun via a local shooting club just weeks prior to the attack, on October 19. He opened fire on students and staff shortly before lunch break was due to start, killing five students and two staff members with the gun, which he called 'Catherine' in internet discussions, before turning it on himself. He later died in hospital. There is also evidence he attempted to set the building on fire.Police have commented that he had apparently acted with intent to kill as many as possible, but selected his victims at random. The day prior to the incident, he posted a video on YouTube announcing his intentions. Police have also recovered a suicide note that said that he hated society.In related news, police are investigating after an internet posting claimed Kirkkoharju middle school in Kirkkonummi was going to be the subject of another attack. Police say they are treating the incident as a "bad joke".Finnish gun ownership per capita is the third highest in the world, due largely to a long tradition of hunting sports in the country, but fatal attacks are exceedingly rare. Around 13% of the 5.2 million inhabitants own a gun, with only the United States and Yemen having higher levels of gun ownership.Finland, Estonia and Greece have all ratified the European Union's Treaty of Lisbon, also known as the Reform Treaty. This brings the total number of ratifications by member states to 18, with all 27 required to do so if the treaty is to come into effect.The treaty, so named because the initial signing by the EU's members was at Lisbon, Portugal, is a replacement for a failed constitution that aims to streamline the EU's voting procedure and increase its efficiency, amongst other changes. It is also intended to simplify efforts and may even introduce the possibility of motions proposed by citizens. It amends the Maastricht Treaty, also known as Treaty on European Union, and the Treaty of Rome, also known as the Treaty establishing the European Community.Finland's parliament voted to ratify the treaty by 151 votes to 27. The votes against came from most of the Left Alliance's MPs, a small majority of the Christian Democrats, the True Finns, three Social Democrats and three MPs from the ruling Centre party.The Estonian Riigikogu also ratified the treaty. Foreign Minister Urmas Paet said that the treaty focused on areas of key importance to the nation, saying "This is the first time that this sort of basic treaty will address, for example, a common European Union energy policy." He also said that it would negate the arguments against further expansion.The Greek ratification likewise went smoothly. The EU welcomed the Greek approval, with European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso saying "I would like to congratulate Greece on the successful approval of the Treaty of Lisbon by the parliament earlier this morning. I want to thank the Greek government and parliament for their unwavering support for the European Union and the new treaty."  However, the opposition parties in the Greek government have requested discussion in Parliament of the possibility of conducting a referendum on the treaty; that debate is set to begin on June 17.The treaty has already been ratified by Hungary, Slovenia, Malta, France, Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, Slovakia, Austria, Portugal, Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, Latvia, Lithuania, and the European Parliament. Voters in Ireland went to the polls today, the only country holding a referendum on the matter.The Finnish police have added Finnish hacker Matti Nikki's website lapsiporno.info criticizing Internet censorship to Finland’s new national child porn filter. The blacklisting was noticed when Finland's second largest Internet service provider Elisa started blocking the page today. More of the ISP's are expected to join the filtering when their blacklists are updated from the police's master list. The banned site has been a harsh critic of Internet censorship over the last three years. It contains information and news about how censorship has been discussed and developing in Finland.  Although the site's provocative name is lapsiporno.info ("childporn.info") there is no child porn on the site - the content is mainly text.Tekniikka & Talous magazine asked Commissioner Lars Henriksson of Finland's National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) why the page was censored. His answer was that he cannot discuss individual sites, but said that sites which are linking to child porn pages are also within the scope of the law. This interpretation, however, seems to conflict with the actual laws, the scope of which was supposed to be only sites with illegal pictures in foreign countries. On Wednesday, NBI confirmed that site was censored because it published and maintained an incomplete version of the Finnish child porn blacklist. Nikki's list contained roughly two-thirds of the 1500 blacklist entries, and it was created by scanning a large amount of sites and logging the censored pages. The scan also found that the top three results of a Google search for "gay porn" are blacklisted, and that most of the blocked sites are actually physically located in the United States or the European Union. Leena Romppainen of Electronic Frontier Finland commented that "The local authorities have taken no action on these sites. Therefore, either the sites do not contain child pornography or the NBI has not informed the local authorities. Both of the alternatives are equally scary." Matti Nikki's opinion is that the majority of the censored sites are legal adult sites and that the police are not doing that much research when they are deciding which sites to block. Internet censorship has been a hot topic in Finland as of late. There have been proposals of extending Internet filtering to Internet gambling sites, sites related to terrorism and violence, and torrent-tracker The Pirate Bay.File:4wiki nykaenen matti.JPGPolice in Finland have arrested Matti Nykänen, a four-time Olympic gold medallist ski jumper, on suspicion of attempted murder. He spent the weekend in custody following an incident on Christmas Day in which his wife was injured.Nykänen, 46, is alleged to have left his wife with wounds to her hands and forehead in a knife attack, causing her to flee to a neighbour's house where she called the police. The Agence France-Presse reported that the Helsingin Sanomat expects Nykänen, from Jyväskylä, to be charged tomorrow.Nykänen, who won three of his gold medals at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary and has nineteen medals from various competitions, is best known for sport although recently he has taken up singing, performing in bars and nightclubs, and written an autobiography. A regular sight in the tabloid press, he has sought treatment as an alcoholic and is known to the police, previously serving time in prison for violent offences. His convictions include assaulting his fourth wife in 2006, and he served four months despite requesting community service; a stab attack from behind with a five-inch blade on a friend landed him a two-year suspended sentence and put the man in hospital. He also served thirteen months for stabbing a friend while drinking and has been prosecuted for attacking a man with a knife in a restaurant, a case dropped through lack of evidence.He was regularly drunk in training sessions and in public. A weekly Finnish gossip magazine paid for a series of laughing gas treatments in exchange for story rights in a bid to combat his alcoholism. He has worked as PR representative for Jyväskylä and gave relationship advice answering phones for a sex line. He has also been employed by a club known to hire out prostitutes which asked him to be a stripper; media reported he did private shows, an allegation he denies. Swedish and US porn producers offered him roles in their films.The Finnish Parliamentary Ombudsman has found that an infant formula study has been conducted on thousands of newborns in several hospitals without obtaining informed consent from the parents, who were not informed of the commercial funding for the study. Additionally, the study was found to have been started and carried out for six months withoutethical committee approval, and suffered from other shortcomings.Prime Minister of Finland Matti Vanhanen told reporters at a Wednesday press conference that a board of inquiry formed to investigate the Jokela school shooting will now also look into how the media conducted itself reporting the incident. The move is understood to be a response to a petition initiated by young local residents.Over 2,000 people have signed the petition both in the area and on the internet. The petition alleges that survivors and victims relatives were 'harassed' by reporters in the aftermath of the shooting, which saw nine people shot dead at Jokela High School, including the gunman. The youths demand a public apology."Tuija Brax, the justice minister, will set up a board of inquiry to investigate the Jokela tragedy and the role of the media will be included in this inquiry," Vanhanen told reporters. He went on to express that he valued the document and felt it warranted summoning several other ministers. However, he stressed the view that his government should not attempt to control the press.Representatives of the media had earlier responded to the allegations by saying that although they deny the allegations, they are not surprised by them. However, both the Mannerheim League for Child Welfare, and the Ombudsman for Children in Finland, Maria Kaisa Aula, have expressed their support for the Jokela youth, although Aula has commented that she believes most of the reporters did act 'ethically'.The Finnish police isolated the ports of Katajanokka and Länsisatama on Saturday. The ports were isolated at around 9.30 p.m. local time and the isolation was called off at around 11.30 p.m.Finnish police received reports from Estonia that a shipping container loaded with explosives could be coming from Estonia Saturday evening. They checked every truck that passed the ports with the assistance of the Border Guard Service. There are still two ships due to arrive in Helsinki tonight, but they were already checked in Tallinn.Police in Finland are collecting together online comments to show to the Office of the Prosecutor General. His deputy says legal guidance is to be given on when Internet postings qualify as illegal "hate speech".Deputy Prosecutor General Jorma Kalske says plans are afoot to present proposed guidelines on what is and is not accepted in an online context within months, and to consider heavier punishement upon repeat offenders. Current violators of the nation's hate speech law face fines or up to two years in prison, although there has never been a jailing."The goal is to deal with those possibly problematic debates the police encounters" on the Internet, says Kalske, noting there is a "relatively substantial" quantity to deal with. He claims comments some politicians had made on immigration constitute "incitement against a population or ethnic group or religion;" immigration-debate remarks are among the material police are sending for consideration."The amount of hate speech has increased to such an extent that it’s time to consider together rather closely what the law says on this and clarify at what stage internet writings need to come into the purview of criminal law, when it’s a question of a fine, when of imprisonment and so on," he says. The crux of the matter is "drawing a line between voicing political opinions, expressing freedom of speech and what is called in colloquial language hate speech," he told Agence France-Presse.It has emerged that three Finnish nationals have been shot dead in Brazil. Their bodies were found near João Pessoa in a sugarcane field on Friday.The three were from Savonlinna but two of them — a married couple — owned a second home nearby where they spent winters. The retired surgeon, 72, and his wife, a retired gynaecologist, 68, had been trying to sell the nearby property. The third victim was a nurse, 60. All were from Savonlinna.The bodies were found in Paraiba beside a road connecting Taquara and Pitimbu. G1 has reported local police are questioning five people and treating all the deaths as homicides. The Finnish National Bureau of Investigation does not plan to get directly involved but is helping the investigation with background information.Local cash, a Finnish credit card, a mobile phone, and jewellery had all been left after the crimes. There were blood traces inside the house. The Helsingin Sanomat suggests a financial dispute relating to the house sale may have been the motive.The couple has spent the last five winters in Brazil, but Finnish ambassador Jari Luoto called the area in question "dangerous and restless."Fiona Donnison, a mother of two, has been found guilty of killing her own children. The 45-year-old, from Surrey, England, had been accused of murdering her son Harry and daughter Elise, aged three and two years respectively.The murders occurred in January 2010, with the bodies of Harry and Elise Donnison found in bags in their mother's car, close to the family's former residence in East Sussex. Fiona Donnison is thought to have then awaited the arrival of Paul Donnison, her former partner, with two knives to injure him. Mr Donnison failed to appear at the scene; he was residing with a new girlfriend at the time.On January 27 of this year, Fiona Donnison entered a police station in the town of Heathfield and confessed to murdering the children but did not inform police of the location of their bodies. When the Nissan vehicle was searched, the bodies of Elise and Harry were discovered in two separate holdalls.In Lewes Crown Court, where the trial was held, the prosecution described Donnison suffocating the children to death and placing their bodies inside a vehicle. Donnison herself did not give evidence at trial.The defence for Donnison claimed that she had been suffering from severe depression and was not in the correct state of mind at the time of the incident, saying that the offences should be downgraded to manslaughter. The defence claimed she was unable to recall the incident and was not able to bring herself to identify the two children by name.A clinical psychologist contested that statement, deeming such mental health difficulties impossible in this case. It was "100% likely [she was] feigning" them, they said. The prosecution attributed their claims to the preparation involved in the committing of the crime. This, it said, was justification for the murder charge.The jury at Lewes Crown Court unanimously found Fiona Donnison guilty of the two murders. As the verdict was delivered, the accused opted to remain in her cell. She was sentenced to life in prison, with a minimum period in custody of 32 years. The judge, Mr Justice Nicol, believed that their deaths were "no accident". He remarked: "You killed them, you who were their mother. Why you did this defies logical explanation. It seems it can only have something to do with your feelings for Paul Donnison, the children's father and your former partner."Outside the court, Paul Donnison commented that his family had suffered an "almost unbearable" experience. Paul also claimed that the system for bringing criminals to justice was "biased" towards the accused, commenting on how Fiona had been handled "with kid gloves".With the sentence having been given out, it has emerged that prosecutors were intending to have Ms. Donnison tried for a third murder charge. This would have been for Mia, the first child Fiona had with Paul. Mia died at the age of nine months in April 2004, originally thought to be down to sudden infant death syndrome. In a hearing before the trial, the prosecuting side claimed they had "taken together" enough evidence for a murder charge to be taken in contemplation in Mia's case. Mr Justice Cooke decided against this charge being brought on as part of the court trial, citing the absence of direct evidence about the death of Mia.At least two people in Uganda were killed on Wednesday, after clashes between police and protestors at a royal mausoleum.The incident occurred at Kasubi, near the Ugandan capital of Kampala, when protestors attempted to stop the country's president, Yoweri Museveni from visiting the tomb site, which was on fire. They set up a barricade and booed him, blocking his motorcade. The fire had destroyed a large portion of the tombs, which are as much as 128 years old. They are revered by the Buganda tribe, the largest in Uganda.There are accusations that the blaze was started intentionally.  Kampala-based journalist Malcolm Webb commented about the incident to Al Jazeera.  "[T]he tombs of their kings [...] was burnt to the ground.  They suspect it was arson.  I've seen four people who were injured [...]  But the crowd has been largely chased away."The president pledged that he would look into the accusations of arson, although he commented that the demonstrators at the "scene of the crime" might have interfered, making an investigation more difficult. "I am suspicious. This could be arson. The problem is the place has been tampered with. [...] [B]ut we are going to investigate and get to the cause," Musveni told the mausoleum caretakers.Judith Nabakooba, a spokesman for Ugandan security forces, told Agence France-Presse that "[t]here was a group that confronted security at the scene before the arrival of the president. They were violent, when they confronted us we shot in the air to disperse them."A Buganda official, Medard Ssegona Lubega, remarked about the blaze to the BBC Network Africa, saying: "There are many men of our fallen kings lie in this house, which is now down to ashes," he told the BBC's Network Africa It is something that we have built and kept and maintained for our children and grandchildren and many generations unborn."Buganda is one of the country's four ancient kingdoms; the United Nations' cultural organisation, UNESCO, designated it as a world heritage site. It has been a popular tourist site, and its mausoleum contains the remains of four of Buganda's former kings, the last of which was buried in 1971.New South Wales Rural Fire Service officers called to extinguish a small bushfire in the Tomerong State Forest, about 210 kilometers south of Sydney, discovered two oil drums containing burning body parts.The firefighters called nearby Nowra police who established several crime scenes in the area. It is believed the drums contained the remains of two people who police believe lived in the area.NSW Police Superintendent Kyle Stewart told the ABC that officers were confronted with an horrific scene. "[It was a] fairly horrific scene, the two bodies were on fire at the time, or the barrels in which they were located, were on fire when the RFS responded and certainly that doesn't add to the pleasantness of the situation," he said.A 27-year-old man and a 36-year-old woman have presented themselves to police. Police say they are assisting detectives with their inquiries.The Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) of Singapore announced yesterday the first arrests made following the listing of New Psychoactive Substances (NPS) as Class A controlled drugs on Thursday, under the First Schedule of the Misuse of Drugs Act. The suspects, two unnamed male Singaporeans, aged 22 and 23, were reportedly arrested at a shopping center in Tampines on Friday evening for possession of synthetic cannabis, also known as "K2". Authorities recovered 71.7 g of the drug from the suspects. Under suspicion from the CNB that the 22-year-old suspect was engaged in trafficking of the illegal substance, a further search of his home yielded an additional 22.3 g of synthetic cannabis, raising the total amount of the drug confiscated following the arrests to 94 g.Synthetic cannabis, listed as an NPS, and known as a "legal high", is one of a group of designer drugs created to stimulate the effects of controlled drugs including cocaine, Ecstasy, methamphetamine, and heroin. The CNB has linked NPS abuse to symptoms including severe intoxication, hallucinations, paranoia, seizures, cadiovascular problems, renal failure, and death.Typically having chemical structure very similar but slightly different from controlled drugs, these substances have been illegalized, and their possession, consumption, trafficking, and manufacturing now carry penalties comparable to that of controlled drugs. Last year, under the Fifth Schedule of the Misuse of Drugs Act, designed to study NPSs before their illegalization, they could be confiscated by authorities, but no further penalty would be levied.The changes to NPS status follow increases over the past year in NPS trafficking and consumption, according to the CNB. Commenting on the move, a spokesperson for the CNB revealed the organization has reported at least thirty NPS seizures in the period from last May through this February. "Thus far," the spokesperson noted, "synthetic cannabinoids and synthetic cathinones are the two more commonly detected NPS".Termed an "alarming new drug problem" by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, its World Drug Report 2013 indicated an increase to 348 NPSs in 2013, up from 251 in 2012. Capitalizing on their legality — which no longer holds in Singapore — NPSs have been known as "legal highs", "research chemicals", "plant food", and "bath salts".Commenting on the illegalization of NPSs, Ng Ser Song, the director of the CNB, had this to say. “The drug situation is challenging and the number of repeat drug abusers and young drug abusers remains a concern. With the abuse and trafficking of NPS on the rise, listing these new psychoactive substances as Class A controlled drugs signals our unequivocal stance that these substances are illegal and no different from other controlled drugs.” Under the recently enacted First Schedule of the Misuse of Drugs Act, if found guilty of drug trafficking, the 22-year-old suspect may be penalized with a minimum of five years in prison and five strokes of the cane. The act also allows the possession or consumption of New Psychoactive Substances to be punished with a maximum of 10 years imprisonment and/or a $20,000 fine.Former taxi driver Joseph Terrence Thomas has become the first Australian convicted under new new anti-terrorism laws.Thomas was convicted by a Supreme Court jury of receiving a plane ticket and AU$4,740 (US$3,500) from Al-Qaeda associate Khalid bin Attash. The 32-year-old was also convicted of having a Pakistani visa changed to appear that he had been in the area for two weeks, instead of two-and-a-half years.The jury acquitted Thomas on further charges of intentionally providing himself as a resource at the Al Farooq terrorist training camp in Afghanistan and of agreeing to become a sleeper agent for Al-Qaeda in Australia. During the trial, prosecutor Nicolas Robinson alleged that Thomas told Australian Federal Police officers that Al-Qaeda wanted him to conduct surveillance of Australian military installations. Outside the court, Thomas’s father, Ian Thomas, told reporters he was happy his son had been acquitted of the more serious charges. "The acquittal has been a great victory - I've always supported our son and family and will continue," he said.Thomas’s wife, Maryati Thomas, said she was relieved Thomas was not convicted of all charges. "It's a big victory for us, the fact that he's here and all the family have been standing right next to us," she said.Federal Attorney General Philip Ruddock said the convictions show Australia’s new anti-terrorism laws are working. "The importance of not engaging with terrorist organisations and in this case receiving money from such an organisation ought not be underestimated by the broader community,” he said.Defence barrister Lex Lasry applied for bail, telling the court that Thomas had no previous convictions and had already spent time in custody in Pakistan and three months in the maximum security Acacia Unit at Barwon Prison. Justice Philip Cummins remanded Thomas into custody for a pre-sentencing hearing on March 2, 2006. Thomas faces a maximum of 25 years imprisonment for receiving funds from Al-Qaeda and a maximum of two years imprisonment for altering his visa.Strike Force Enoggera, the group of detectives poised with investigating the recent racially motivated violence across Sydney, has laid its first charges against a man alleged to have forwarded SMS messages encouraging further violence.New South Wales Police allege that a 33 year-old Matraville man, who was arrested at 9:30PM Wednesday, forwarded "offensive and inciting" text messages following the violence at Cronulla. The man was taken to Maroubra Police Station where he was charged with using a carriage service to menace, harass or cause offence and a count of print, publish to incite or urge the commission of a crime. He was granted bail and is to appear in Waverley Local Court on 1 February 2006.It is alleged that the messages were to incite people to turn out at Cronulla on December 18, 2005 for another round of violence.Strike Force Enoggera commander Dennis Bray has indicated that more arrests will follow. He also said that arrests will not only be made for organising the events but for the "more serious criminal offences" committed during the violence.The investigations into the violence have been extended further with the Australian Survelliance and Intelligence Organisation (ASIO) conducting their own investigation into groups thought to have used the violence to promote their own political agenda.Part of the prosecution case against him was his ownership of a house worth 1,350,000 Lempiras ($US72,000).For the first time a video showing the interrogation process at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp has been released. According to reports broadcast by Canadian media, the video shows Omar Khadr, one of the prisoners, being questioned by Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) officials. The video was filmed with a hidden camera through an air vent. It shows an interrogation from late February 2003 and it is being released now under a court order obtained by Khadr's lawyers.In the video, Khadr can be seen repeatedly crying and telling officials that "you don't care about me."  Dennis Edney, lawyer for Omar Khadr, responded by saying Dennis Edney "I hope Canadians will be outraged to see the callous and disgraceful treatment of a Canadian youth." He also said that "Canadians should demand to know why they've been lied to." Omar claimed in the video that he was receiving poor medical care. When an official said "I'm not a doctor, but I think you're getting good medical care," he responded by saying "No I'm not. You're not here... I lost my eyes. I lost my feet. Everything!" The official's response to this was "No, you still have your eyes. Your feet are still at the end of your legs." CBC News has reported that that Khadr's comments about his eyes and feet are in reference to effects from the firefight in Afghanistan.When the crying continued the questioner called for a break and said "Look, I want to take a few minutes. I want you to get yourself together. Relax a bit. Have a bite to eat and we'll start again."Khadr, who is currently aged 21, faces life imprisonment for charges as serious as murder if he is found guilty. He also says that he has faced torture in Bagram air base, Afghanistan.Prime minister Stephen Harper has repeatedly rejected calls for him to ask the United States for Khadr's return to Canada."Mr. Khadr faces serious charges. There is a judicial process underway to determine Mr. Khadr's fate. This should continue," Kory Teneycke, Communication Director at the Office of the Prime Minister, told CBC News."We might also add in terms of background that the Government of Canada's position is consistent with the previous government's," Teneycke further said. "This is a judicial process as opposed to a political one."Former deputy governor Virginia Etiaba was sworn in as the Governor of Anambra, a state in south-central Nigeria, making her the first female governor in the country's history.  Her instatement comes as the previous governor, Peter Obi, was impeached by the state legislature for alleged gross misconduct.Etiaba initially refused the position, saying that the impeached man was still the governor and her boss.  However, she later accepted the position due to what she called the "peculiarity of the situation".  Both the 64-year-old Etiaba and 45-year-old Obi have been in office since March 2006 after the previous governor's election was overturned by a court.The new governor may not last in her job, however.  While Obi does not contest the legality of Etiaba's swearing in, he intends to contend the impeachment in court.  Additionally, the ongoing impeachment proceedings may yet cause Etiaba herself to be removed from office if she is indicted for the same misconduct as her former boss. Etiaba was also criticized by a number of local religious and community leaders, who put out a statement condemning both the original impeachment of Obi as well as the promotion of Etiaba. The statement reads in part:We are shocked at the alleged summersault of the Deputy Governor of Anambra State, Dame Virgy Etiaba who we had commended for keeping faith with the people when she rejected the offer to replace her boss and sincerely hope that she was not coerced into accepting to be sworn in as the Governor of Anambra State against her peoples wish.Etiaba is expected at the impeachment hearing today.Australia Guantánamo Bay prisoner David Hicks was sentenced Friday by a special military court after pleading guilty to providing material support to the Taliban. He was sentenced to seven years in prison, but will only need to complete nine months of his penalty, most of it back in Australia, under the terms of his plea agreement.Hicks, who has been detained for more than 5 years, is to be transferred to Australia within 60 days. The plea bargain also forbids Hicks from speaking to the media for one year after his sentence, suing the U.S. government for alleged abuse during his imprisonment, or appealing his sentence. The deal also mentions that he should not profit from selling his story. These terms were criticised by Michael Ratner, president of the Center for Constitutional Rights, as a "modern cutting out of his tongue", with prosecutors using the leverage of a plea deal to stifle information and public debate about the controversial detention process.David's father, Terry Hicks, responded that he was glad that his son was returning home, but also told Australian Broadcasting Corp.: Prosecutor Marine Lt. Col. Kevin Chenail asked for the maximum sentence, referring to Hicks by his pseudonym 'Muhammad Dawood'. He told the panel of military officers that, "Today in this courtroom, we are on the front lines of the global war on terror... The enemy is sitting at the defense table. We are face to face with the enemy... [who was] trying to kill Americans."Australian Prime Minister John Howard told reporters in Sydney  that:Australian Greens Senator Bob Brown suggested yesterday that the speech restrictions in the plea deal were put in place as a deliberate attempt to meddle in upcoming elections. "Of course it's a fix," said Brown. "The message has gone very clearly from Canberra to Washington to Guantanamo Bay: don't allow Hicks to be released until after the elections and certainly don't allow him to speak."Howard disputed that interpretation of events. "We didn't impose the sentence, the sentence was imposed by the military commission and the plea bargain was worked out between the military prosecution and Mr Hicks's lawyers, and the suggestion...that it's got something to do with the Australian election is absurd."The first murderer in 150 years on Australia's Norfolk Island, Glenn McNeill, has been found guilty of killing restaurant owner Janelle Patton in 2002 on Easter Sunday.A 29-year-old New Zealand chef, Glenn McNeill was found guilty of murdering Australian Janelle Patton after the jury of 11 deliberated for two days, then delivered their guilty verdict, which either had to be unanimous, or no charges as manslaughter was not an option.In the five week Supreme Court trial, evidence was given that said that 29-year-old Ms Patton had been abducted, then bashed, then stabbed, and then hacked to death. She sustained 64 different injuries in the prolonged attack. It was also said that the attack had sexual motives.Outside the court room, around 11 residents of Norfolk Island cheered as it was announced that Mr McNeill had been found guilty. The forewoman of five-woman, seven-man jury, said, "We find the accused guilty of murder," which didn't result in any change by Mr McNeill.When first being interviewed by New Zealand police in Nelson for two hours, Mr McNeill admitted to the murder by running Ms.Patton over and stabbing her under the influence of cannabis. He then later retracted that in an unsigned court statement, stating mental health problems. "I did not murder Janelle Patton."Her body was found wrapped partially in plastic wrap at a picnic/nature reserve, with her underpants pulled down.Her underpants being pulled down was used in Mr McNeill's defence saying that the attack was done by a woman, and the underwear was to try and throw the police off the correct path.Mr McNeill will be sentenced at a later date.An appeal is being considered, with Mr McNeill's lawyer stating significant grounds.Scott Rush and Renae Lawrence, the only female member of the Bali Nine, were today sentenced in the Denpasar District Court to life imprisonment.The Bali Nine were arrested in April 2005 in Bali, where they were accused of trying to smuggle 8.3 kg of heroin in to Australia.The sentence issued to Lawrence is a surprise to both herself and the prosecution, as a 20-year sentence was all but promised for co-operation.Although under Indonesian law, Lawrence could have received the death penalty, judges felt a custodial sentence was in order because of her youth, cooperation and general politeness.File:Old-bailey.jpgThe Lord Chief Justice, Sir Igor Judge, together with two other judges, today ruled that a trial could be heard by a judge alone. This makes legal history in England and Wales, being the first time the power has been used in the United Kingdom since its introduction in 2003.Four men are accused of taking part in an armed robbery at Heathrow Airport in 2004. Lord Judge said "the danger of jury tampering and the subversion of the process of trial by jury is very significant". The trial "will take place without a jury in due course". Media restrictions prevent identification of the defendants.Reports suggest that three previous trials have collapsed due to interference with jurors, hence the landmark decision.Federal prosecutor Patrick Fitzgerald announced on Friday that he would introduce new evidence in the perjury and obstruction of justice case against former Vice Presidential chief of staff Lewis "Scooter" Libby.One of the new pieces of evidence consists of handwritten notes that Vice President Dick Cheney left on the margins of ambassador Joseph Wilson's OpEd column questioning the administration's handling of evidence regarding weapons of mass destruction (WMD) in the run-up to the Iraq war. Fitzgerald charged that "those annotations support the proposition that publication of the Wilson Op Ed acutely focused the attention of the Vice President and the defendant - his chief of staff - on Mr. Wilson, on the assertions made in his article, and on responding to those assertions." Fitzgerald describes the notes as reflecting "the contemporaneous reaction of the Vice President to Mr. Wilson's Op Ed article" and views the relevance of these notes as "establishing some of the facts that were viewed as important by the defendant's immediate superior." In the margins of Wilson's article Cheney wrote a series of questions about the legitimacy of Wilson's CIA-sponsored trip to Niger: "Have they done this sort of thing before? Send an Amb. [sic] to answer a question? Do we ordinarily send people out pro bono to work for us? Or did his wife send him on a junket?"Lea Ann McBride, spokesperson for the Vice President, declined to comment on the publishing of the notes, but stressed that the Office of the Vice President continues to cooperate with the investigation.The family of Amy Fitzpatrick, an Irish expat who disappeared from Mijas, Spain on New Year’s Night, has announced a reward for reliable information which could lead to finding the missing teenager. The news came in a statement from Dave Mahon, the partner of Amy’s mother, Audrey, who said all information would be treated in the strictest confidence, and calling on anyone who may have a possible lead to contact either the family or the Civil Guard.  In the statement Mahon said that "a substantial reward is on offer to anyone who can provide reliable information on Amy's whereabouts. Any information received will be treated within the strictest confidence."There has been no news on whether detectives have managed to locate a vehicle which they believe Amy may have taken, a British-registered white Ford Fiesta, with the registration number C955 SLK. Anyone who may see the vehicle is asked not to touch it to avoid destroying any evidence, and to call 062 urgently.Amy disappeared when she was walking home to the Riviera del Sol Urbanisation from the Calypso area at around 10 p.m. on New Year’s Night, and was wearing black track suit bottoms and a T-shirt with the word ‘Diesel’ when she was last seen. She has black hair, and is 1.65 m tall. The contact telephone numbers for any information on her whereabouts are 112, 952 487 036, 062, 686 044 181 and 952 474 030.This article is based on Fitzpatrick family offers reward in search for missing Mijas teenager by TypicallySpanish.com  which has a copyright policy compatible with our CC-BY 2.5. Specifically "CC-BY-3.0"Five men pleaded not guilty yesterday to the rape and murder of a 23-year-old Delhi student. They face 13 charges and the death penalty in a specially set up "fast track court".The accused, Vinay Sharma, Pawan Kumar, Ram Singh, Mukesh Singh and Akshay Thakur, signed statements in the court declaring their innocence. The five men could face the death penalty if convicted. The men, on Saturday filed in to the court room with their faces covered, and are next expected to be back in court for a hearing on Monday for the formal start of the trial.A sixth accused, who is believed to be a 17-year-old, will be tried in a juvenile court and faces a maximum sentence of three years in a reform facility if found guilty.   A juvenile board said it accepted school records showing the juvenile as having been born on June 4, 1995. Police had been seeking a bone ossification test, suspecting that he is older than 17; however, the board rejected it stating that it would not be necessary.The victim, a 23-year-old medical student, and a male friend were attacked after boarding a bus on December 16 in South Delhi. Police said that the six men accused, beat her male friend with a metal bar and raped her. The victims were then thrown from the bus naked on the roadside and the woman died from internal injuries two weeks later in Singapore. The attack set off protests nationwide, sparking debates about the treatment of women in India. On Friday, the Indian cabinet approved an ordinance to introduce harsher penalties for crimes against women, including the death penalty in extreme cases of rape. It also approved increasing the maximum seven year sentence for rape to twenty years as well as stricter punishments for crimes such as stalking, cyber stalking and voyeurism. Ashwani Kumar the Indian Law Minister,  said, "We have taken swift action and hope these steps will make women feel safer in the country."Officers from the York Regional Police and Sûreté du Québec arrested five family members in Toronto, Ontario and Quebec regarding the February 5 armoured car robbery of C$2.3 million which occurred in Richmond Hill, Ontario.According to officers, a Garda security guard released information such as digital codes and security procedures to family members, who then proceeded to use the information the evening of February 5 outside a Royal Bank of Canada on Yonge Street.About half of the heist money has been recovered.  It is alleged that the suspects had taken vacations to Spain, the Domincan Republic, and the Bahamas.Twin brothers, their two sons, and the cousin who disclosed company information were those arrested.  York Chief Armand La Barge said that police made the arrest as the five planned another robbery for Quebec.Normand Grignon, and his twin Marcel Grignon, 59 along with their sons, Anthony Grignon, 24, Lawrence Stark-Grignon, 26, were arrested at their homes on the Island of Montreal, Quebec.  They will be transferred to Newmarket, Ontario to appear in court.  Christopher Reinards, 26, was the Garda supervisor from Toronto who will also face charges.Numerous smuggled artifacts were found at an Austrian tour guide's home. Five Italians were arrested and twenty-eight others are now being investigated. The Austrian, known as "Mozart" in the art trafficking world, received a citation for his involvement.Police claim that some 600 artifacts, which had been illegally excavated, were found. Most ranged from 8th century BCE to the 5th century CE. Many of the items were gold and silver, along with ceramics. One item, a cup, has been valued at several thousand Euros.The artifacts were plundered from an archaeological site near Rome by "Mozart" using his tour guide credentials. Italian authorities expect that the plundered artifacts will finally be displayed in Italian museums.Four journalists from The Sun newspaper and one police officer have been arrested today as part of Operation Elveden, the investigation into payments by journalists working at News International to police officers.The police officer has been identified as a 29-year-old officer in the Territorial Policing Command at the Metropolitan Police. The police have not identified the journalists, but the BBC suggest they are Fergus Shanahan, ex-deputy editor of The Sun; Graham Dudman, ex-managing editor; Mike Sullivan, crime editor; and Chris Pharo, head of news.The Metropolitan Police have said News Corporation disclosed information leading to the arrests. The offices of News International at Wapping have also been searched today as part of the investigation. Operation Elveden has now arrested a total of fourteen people: 12 journalists and two police officers.Five prisoners were beheaded and got their heads exhibited by the rioters during a violent riot in the "Zwinglio Ferreira" Prison, located in Presidente Venceslau, São Paulo State,  Brazil.This is the most serious riot of prisoners in the 19 year existence of the penitentiary. The rebellion began Tuesday, at 8:30 a.m. and it finished Wednesday at 2:30 p.m. Some heads belonging to the murdered prisoners were put on iron spears so they could be shown from the roof of the prison.  Some prisoners played football with one of the heads.  According to Nagashi Furukawa, the secretary of the administration of the prison, the rebellion originated because of prisoners who were contrary to the criminal organization Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC). The supporters of PCC  killed their opponents.Five boys have been charged with raping a 15-year-old girl in a park in Greater Manchester, England.The boys, who are aged 13–17 years old, are alleged to have attacked the schoolgirl in Queen's Park close to Bolton town centre in the early hours of Thursday morning. Police were called at around 01:00 BST on that day. The boys were arrested on Friday and charged on Saturday morning.The alleged offenders are due to appear in Bolton Magistrates' Court later today. They have all been remanded in custody. The girl has been receiving counselling after the attack. Forensics have examined the scene and a bench has been removed for further tests.Four men and a woman have been charged with first-degree murder in what the Ontario Provincial Police calls "internal cleansing" of a biker gang.The eight victims found on Saturday in a farmer's field in Shedden, Ontario, as well as one of the suspects have been linked to a biker gang called the "Bandidos", Ontario Provincial Police confirmed on Monday afternoon. According to police, the victims were shot dead."The victims of this crime have been positively identified and are associated [with], or belong to, the Bandidos motorcycle gang," Det. Supt. Ross Bingley told a news conference in London, Ontario. "This is an isolated incident with ties to the Bandidos." "There's nothing to indicate that there's anything outside the Bandidos ...this is simply an internal cleansing," said Det. Insp. Don Bell.Six people who were found dead are believed to be full members of the gang:George Jesso of Etobicoke, Ontario.George Kiriakis of Toronto, Ontario.Luis Manny Raposo of Toronto, Ontario.Francesco Salerajno of Toronto, Ontario.John Muscedere of Chatham, Ontario.Paul Sinopoli of Sutton, Ontario.The other two victims were associated with the gang, according to police:Jamie Flanz of Keswick, Ontario (a "prospect member")Michael Trotta of Mississauga, Ontario (an "associate" member)The five people charged are Kellestine of Dutton, Ontario, Eric Niessen of Monkton, Ontario, Kerry Morris, also of Monkton, Ontario, Frank Mather of Dutton, Ontario and Brett Gardiner of no fixed address.At least five children have been found dead in a home in Graham, Washington in Pierce County located in the United States. The bodies were found on Saturday after officials in neighboring King County found the body of their father who committed suicide by way of a self inflicted gunshot wound.According to the Pierce County sheriff's office, the ages of the children, one boy and 4 girls, range from 7-years-old to 16-years-old and all were shot and killed. Police went to check on the children's health after King County sheriffs contacted Pierce County regarding the father's suicide, whose name has not been released.Authorities believe the 35-year-old man killed all five children before he killed himself, but the motive is not yet known.According to reports from officials, four Pakistani and one Afghan road construction workers were killed in Afghanistan yesterday by armed men.The interior ministry reported that the attack happened on Thursday morning, in the Panjwayi district in the Kandahar province, and noted that one other Pakistani and Afghan labourer were injured. The workers were reportedly en route to a building site operated by the SAITA construction firm."They were going to work when this incident took place. We are arranging transportation of their bodies back to Pakistan," commented Ajmal Farooqi, an executive with the company.Police official Agha said that two gunmen motorcycle opened fire on the workers, conflicting with reports from the interior ministry, which says that there were three gunmen.Agence France-Presse reports that this incident bears the hallmarks of the Taleban; however, Taleban spokesman Yousuf Ahmadi remarked that "[o]ur friends did not say anything about it, we don't have information about the incident".A doctor, his assistant and three women who were found to have undergone abortion were convicted of violating abortion laws in Portugal. The three women were found to have undergone abortion in violation of Portuguese law. Abortion is illegal in Portugal except where a pregnancy is caused by rape or when the health of the mother is in danger due to the pregnancy. Further, abortion cannot be performed after the first trimester (the end of 12th week).Twelve other defendants, mostly women and their partners, were found not guilty. The doctor was sentenced to 3 years and 8 months in prison. His assistant was deemed an accomplice and sentenced to 1 year and 4 months in prison. The three women were given 6 month suspended sentences.All the defendants had earlier been acquitted of the charges in 2004 for lack of evidences. That decision was declared void by a superior court on appeal. The court decided that the medical examinations conducted on the women, which were performed without a court order or the presence of a state witness, were legal.At least five people have been killed after an arson attack on Monday in Zahedan, a city in southeastern Iran. Tens more people were injured at a local subsidiary of the Mehr Financial and Credit Institute.The casualties were all reported to have been employees of the subsidiary."Security has been restored to the city and we have everything under control," said Ahmad Reza Radan, the Iranian deputy chief of police.The Mehr News Agency quoted a senior police official as stating that the attack comes from rebels who want to shake Sunni-Shiite relations in the country, in the time before the national presidential elections, which are due on June 12.The incident comes only five days after an attack on a Shiite mosque in the same city killed 25 and injured 125.Five people, including two Europeans, have been killed by gunmen during an attack on a bar in Bamako, the capital city of Mali, early on Sunday morning. At least nine others were injured during the attack in which the assailants used machine guns and grenades. Three Malians, a French national, and a Belgian security official who was working for the European Union were killed. At least three Swiss nationals, including soldiers, are amongst the wounded. Local newspaper al-Akhbar reported al-Murabitun, an Islamic extremist group, say they are behind the shooting. Gunmen attacked the La Terrasse bar shortly at around 1:00a.m. French soldiers were on-scene soon after the attack had started.Commenting for the BBC, Alex Duval-Smith said "When I arrived there about an hour after the attack, there was a white body bag on the floor. A dozen Malian police were at the scene, including an inspector who used tables and stools to cordon off the bar. A witness said the attackers had sped off in a vehicle and on a motorbike and that one had shouted 'Allahu Akbar'". al-Murabitun hold territory in Northern Mali. According to the U.S State Department they are "newly-formed".French President François Hollande said the shooting was "cowardly" and spoke to Ibrahim Boubakar Keita, the President of Mali. During the conversation he offered Mali "the aid of France" to fight extremism. The French Embassy in Bamako has warned its citizens living in the city to be on high alert.This is believed to be the first attack by a Islamist group in the capital city. In 2013 French troops aided in displacing Islamist forces from towns in Northern Mali. Mali still has around 1,000 serving French soldiers stationed in the country.Fresh violence has broken out in the central Nigerian city of Jos earlier today, killing at least five people, according to witness reports.The clashes began when the body of a seventeen year old Muslim teenager, supposedly strangled, was thrown onto a main street in the town in a sack, prompting riots. The Agence France-Presse (AFP) news service reports the dead body was that of a seventeen-year-old student.The area has seen repeated conflicts between Christians and Muslims in the past."When the Muslims discovered the body, they took to the streets and barricaded roads, stabbing passers-by indiscriminately," said a military spokesman, Donald Oji.According to security officials, the riots have been calmed down, although a youth curfew is still in place. "We now have the traditional chief and the youth leader of the area are with us and they are helping us with our investigation," a Plateau region police spokesman, Mohamad Lerama told AFP.The rioters primarily consisted of "some Muslim youths calling for revenge over the killing of a Muslim teenager," he said. "From reports reaching us, one Christian was killed in the protest. Both bodies have been taken to the hospital."Two explosions near a US consulate in Karachi, Pakistan killed five and wounded more than fifty early Thursday morning.  The explosions come just prior to United States President George W. Bush's scheduled visit to the country.  According to Forbes report on the incident, Pakistani officials speculated that the attack was timed to coincide with Bush's visit.According to police, a suicide bomber apparently hit the vehicle of a United States diplomat, detonating one of the explosions.  It is not clear whether a subsequent explosion was another bomb or a vehicle explosion triggered by the initial blast.The Kuwait News Agency (KUNA) reports that a hospital in the region has confirmed at least five persons were killed in the attacks, and over fifty more were injured, including a young Moroccan girl.  According to the Associated Press, among the dead was a United States diplomat, a Pakistani official who worked at the consulate, a security guard for the consulate, and an unidentified woman.  The driver of the car bomb is also presumed dead.During a press conference in New Delhi, India, President Bush stated he would still travel to Pakistan despite the explosions, saying that: "Terrorists and killers are not going to prevent me from going to Pakistan. My trip to Pakistan is an important trip. It's important to talk with President Musharraf about continuing our fight against terrorists." Bush also expressed his condolences to the individuals lost in the attack during the conference.The Pakistani news source GEO states that the first explosion occurred at 9:05 local time (0505 UTC), with the second explosion occurring minutes afterwards.  The explosions occurred at the parking lot of the Marriott Hotel in Karachi, about 60 feet (18 meters) from the consulate gate.  Damage to the building as well as over ten nearby vehicles was also reported.The Associated Press reports that the same consulate has been targeted twice in the recent past: an attack in 2002 left 14 Pakistanis dead, and in 2004 police defused a time bomb before it was set to detonate.Five people have been confirmed dead in a murder-suicide that occurred on Tuesday, May 27. Joshua Lall, 34, stabbed and killed his wife Alison, 35, his two daughters Kristen, 5, and Rochelle, 3, and Amber Bowerman, 30, a tenant in their home, before committing suicide. A third daughter, one-year old Anna, was not harmed.Joshua apparently harboured a mental illness which is thought by police investigators to have been the driving force behind the murders. A few days before the event, Joshua had called his father, Dominic Lall, telling of a "mental breakdown" he was having. Just prior to the murders, the family's babysitter Katie Blewaska had received a call from Joshua's wife stating that Joshua was "finally on the mend".Joshua was studying to become a professional architect, and had been interning at Cohos Evamy, a local architectural firm. Rob Adamson, chairman of the firm, said of Joshua that "there were no indicators to us at work of any problems. He was just a solid, come-to-work and get-it-done kind of guy."Amber Bowerman was a journalist working as the publication editor for the Southern Alberta Institute of Technology (SAIT) student newspaper. She had been attending a conference in Lake Louise in the Rocky Mountains and had been invited to stay an extra day. Instead, she chose to go back to her residence in the Lall family home to finish up her work. Suzanne Trudel, publications manager of the SAIT newspaper, rode home with Bowerman from the conference, and said that she spoke glowingly of the family.A lone gunman has shot and killed four in-laws at the Ministry of Jesus Christ church in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.The suspect, identified as Anthony Bell (25), was arrested Sunday in a nearby apartment block close to the church.  The suspect's wife, Erica Bell (24), was also shot and killed.Bell abducted his wife and her three children during a Sunday morning church service. The children, one was an infant, were found unharmed. His relatives described Bell as having “domestic problems”.It is unclear where the fatal shooting of Mr. Bell's wife occurred. The church pastor and mother to Erica Bell, Claudia Brown, was wounded during the rampage and was hospitalized in serious condition. Bell has been charged with five counts of murder, attempted murder, and kidnapping.Five people are dead following a murder-suicide in Miami, Florida today, after a man crashed a birthday party early Sunday morning. He informed the party-goers that they were responsible for his wife's decision to leave him, and then proceeded to open fire with a semi-automatic hand gun. The guests fled the scene into the street, or found cover.The man, whom police identified as Guillermo Lopez, 48, immigrated to the United States from Cuba about 10 years ago. There were about a dozen people in attendance at the party. He killed his wife, who had left him, and shot her daughter, her daughter's boyfriend, and the boyfriend's grandmother. They were killed at approximately 12:15am in Little Havana, Miami.Police first responded to the 2800 block of Southwest 38 Court following reports of gunfire. Four bodies were discovered behind the house."It was chaotic. I can't imagine what it was like in there," said homicide detective Ervens Ford.Lopez fled the scene in a red Toyota Tacoma pickup truck to his home, which was about 3 miles (5 km) from the original scene. He set both the house and truck on fire and committed suicide.Police and firetrucks responded to a second 911 call regarding the blaze at the 700 block of Southwest 33 Avenue where the assailant's body was found with a gunshot wound.The victims have been identified as Lazara Mendez, 50; Nayla Canfux, 19; Francisco Casas, 27; and Maria Lefran Christ, 77.A group of British embassy workers kidnapped in northern Ethiopia 12 days ago have been released, Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett has said. The workers - four British citizens and one French citizen and Ethiopian staff working with them, had been held in Eritrea, she announced on Tuesday.The party were apparently on a sightseeing tour when they were abducted on 1 March. Beckett also said that all kidnapped were safe and well and were:The group went missing on March 1 on a tourist trip to visit geological sites in the remote Afar region, in the country's north. Two vehicles belonging to the group were later found in a north-eastern village called Hamedali. The vehicles were found were riddled with bullets, but still contained luggage and mobile telephones. The region in which the Hamedali is, Afar, straddles the border of Ethiopia and Eritrea. Ethiopia's Prime Minister Meles Zenawi had said on Monday that Ethiopian officials had a "good idea" of where the hostages were being held.Zenawi announced that embassy staff had not been specifically targeted and suggested that the kidnapping might have been a "mistake". Hamedali is a staging post for tourists venturing into the unique geological formations of the Danakil Depression, including the area's famous salt lakes. The area is one of the hottest and inhospitable lands on Earth. Visitors are warned by the government to travel in a convoy with armed guards because of rebels and bandits. Witnesses stated that around 50 men burst Hamedali and marched the foreigners towards the Eritrean border.Five men were found guilty Monday for their part in an unsuccessful plot to carry out bombings in the UK. The five had been arrested in 2004 in a police raid named Operation Crevice. Two other men arrested and charged at the time were found not guilty.The trial at the Old Bailey criminal court in London took place over the past year and had been carried out with little detail being released. It has now been revealed that the guilty had planned large fertiliser bombings of a nightclub, gas power plant and shopping mall. All five were found guilty of plotting to cause an explosion likely to endanger life and have been jailed with life sentences.The five convicted are Omar Khyam, 25, Waheed Mahmood, 34, and Jawad Akbar, 23, from Crawley, West Sussex, Salahuddin Amin, 31, from Luton, Bedfordshire and Anthony Garcia, 24, of Barkingside, east London. All of the men are British citizens. The two men found not guilty are Nabeel Hussain and Shujah Mahmood.During summations, the judge, Sir Michael Astill, criticised the guilty men for plotting against their country. "You have betrayed this country that has given you every opportunity," said judge Astill. "All of you may never be released. It's not a foregone conclusion."It was also revealed that some of the fertiliser bomb conspirators had met with two of the London subway bombers. Opposition parties have now called for an independent inquiry into the 7 July link. The details of the 7 July link had not been brought in front of the jury during the trial of the fertiliser bomb planners.A Canadian man, Momin Khawaja, was arrested in 2004 and has been held in a Canadian jail ever since. He is accused of being a co-conspirator with five British plotters for allegedly developing bomb detonators. Khawaja is considered an un-indicted co-conspirator with relation to the British case. Khawaja is the first person to be held under the 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act under Canada's Criminal Code, put in place by Canada's then Liberal government. Khawaja has been charged with seven offences under the new laws."He's been in custody for more than three years, facing these charges," said Lawrence Greenspon, Khawaja's lawyer. "The (British) jury obviously had a great deal of difficulty coming to a decision," Greenspon told CTV News. "Even with that, two of the seven were acquitted."Khawaja maintains his innocence.Four men and one woman were in jail in Tyler, Texas as of yesterday morning following a robbery allegedly involving an elaborate scam.Police alleged Alneisha Butler originated a scheme to lure a 25-year-old man to an apartment complex in Tyler late Tuesday night, where he was accosted at gun point by four men. Butler and the man had been corresponding online for a few weeks, when she told him she wanted him to meet some friends of hers, according to police. When the two met at the complex, they were met by the four men who demanded money from the victim. He didn't have cash, so the assailants ordered him to get cash from an ATM (Automated Teller Machine) while they held the woman until his return. The man left the scene and notified police by phone. The men named as alleged assailants in the crime were Lawrence Caston, Shannon Howard, Justin McGee, and David Roberts.The woman and each of the four men were being held on a US$750,000 bond. A police spokesperson cautioned, "This could have [just as] easily happened if he met her at a bar as it happened online. If you go somewhere with someone and they start leading you to a place you don't feel comfortable, then don't go".Five men have been kidnapped in a raid on a Royal Dutch Shell oil rig in Nigeria. In the early morning raid, several armed men in boats opened fire on the rigs security guards.A security expert says that it would be unusual for the kidnappers to kill the victims. Their main objective, he says, is to send a message to the government.A Shell spokesperson says the company does not pay ransom for the release of kidnapped workers, but is obviously concerned for them.The captured are Bruce Klenner and Gottard Brene from New Zealand, Jason Lane from Australia, George Saliba from Lebanon and Andreas Gambra from Venezuela.Five South Korean natural gas plant workers who were kidnapped yesterday have been released to a member of the Nigerian Senate, David Brigidi. The five ex-hostages walked into a Nigerian Government building and were in good health.The kidnappers, who belong to the group Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, released the workers after Mujahid Dokubo-Asari pled for the release. Mujahid Dokubo-Asari is a militant who is currently in prison and the kidnappers were demanding that he be released."All five Korean prisoners captured by our unit in the attack on the Daewoo camp were released … at the request of Dokubo-Asari," said the group.Shell Petroleum Development Company operated the plant in the Nigerian Delta where the hostages worked. Shell has since closed the plant after the group said yesterday that more attacks were "planned" on the facility. The plant is located in Port Harcourt and Daewoo Engineering and Construction Co. and Korea Gas Corp. were the workers employers.Today the group again reaffirmed their earlier statement that all "oil companies in the Niger Delta are again warned to leave while they can."A five-month-old girl is in a critical but stable condition in Sydney's Westmead Children's Hospital after receiving burns to 11 percent of her body in a house fire. The fire broke out at around 2am Sunday in the Department of Housing property in Kelso, a suburb of Bathurst, NSW, Australia.Police and fire crews were called to the house after a neighbour reported seeing the fire and four men, described as being of "Aboriginal" appearance, running from the area.Police said that the five-month-old girl and her twin sister were sleeping in a front room when the fire broke out. The twins' parents rescued their children and fled before flames engulfed the entire house.Inspector Chris Davey said police thought the fire may have been deliberate and had spent Sunday gathering evidence at the scene. "We're treating the fire as being deliberately lit at this point in time - we have investigators on the ground trying to identify four males seen to be leaving that area," he said.Five men out of six accused of involvement in the September 11 attacks have been referred to trial by the Guantanamo military commission. The war crimes tribunal also dropped charges against Mohammed Qahtani, who is alleged to have been the '20th hijacker', although they were dropped "without prejudice" so the Saudi Arabian can still be re-charged.All six men are currently being held in maximum security at the United States naval base at Cuba's Guantanamo Bay. Under the 2006 Military Commissions Act those charged must be arraigned within 30 days and have their trial commenced within four months.The men are accused of plotting the attacks, in which four passenger airliners were hijacked in US airspace. One was flown into each tower of the World Trade Center, one was flown into the Pentagon and the fourth crashed in a Pennsylvania field. Almost 3,000 people were killed. 19 hijackers were involved, with one aircraft having four hijackers compared to five on the others, triggering theories concerning a 20th hijacker. It is alleged that Qahtani missed out on this role because he was unable to get past anti-immigration measures to upon arrival in Florida, where head hijacker Mohammed Atta is said to have been waiting.Those who are set to go to trial are alleged members of Al-Qaeda, who were found to be responsible for the attacks. They are Walid bin Attash, Ramzi Binalshibh, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, Mustafa Ahmed Hawsawi and alleged 9/11 mastermind Khalid Shaikh Mohammed.They have all been charged with conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws of war, attacking civilians, attacking civilian objects, intentionally causing serious bodily injury, destruction of property, terrorism and material support for terrorism while all but Hawsawi are charged with hijacking aircraft as well.Some concern has been made over alleged human rights abuses. Officials have said themselves that Qahtani was harshly treated in imprisonment and Khalid was subjected to waterboarding.Qahtani also withdrew an earlier confession saying it was obtained from him under torture. He submitted a detailed written account describing abuse he alleges against him including beatings, being forced into uncomfortable positions for long periods, threats with dogs, exposure to music at high volume, being subjected to freezing temperatures and being forced to appear naked in front of female personnel.The arraignments will take place at the high security Guantanamo war crimes tribunal, and will mark the first public appearances of the men since their capture. The trial will mark the first in front of a US war crimes tribunal since World War Two, and the first capital one at this tribunal as prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for all of the men.Five of the six defendants accused of manslaughter over the 2006 fire on board Egyptian ferry al-Salam Boccaccio 98 have been cleared of all charges. The February 3 fire and subsequent sinking killed 1,034 of around 1,400 passengers.Mamdouh Ismail, owner of the al-Salam company, his son and three company executives were all cleared of manslaughter. Ismail is a member of parliament directly appointed by the president, and both he, his son and another of the executives were tried in absentia as they have left the country. They had all been charged with manslaughter stemming from safety violations on the ship.Convicted was Salaheddin Gomaa, captain of nearby ferry Saint Catherine. He was jailed for six months after the court found he did not come to the stricken al-Salam 98's aid. It found he "did not do his duty by failing to go to the rescue of victims," and that he failed to show any compassion.The ship went down in the Red Sea near Egyptian port Safaga, where the trial was held, having departed earlier from Saudi Arabia's Dhaba port. A parliamentary report balmed the disaster's scale on the owners, as well as the government and Panama, the state where the ship was registered. The report said al-Salam had kept operating the ship "despite serious defects" with her, and that the government had "failed to manage the crisis adequately" in the following days.It was found that the 36-year-old al-Salam 98's safety documents were forged, that the ship's extuinguishers and life rafts were not fit for purpose and that there were an inadequate number of winches to lower the rafts into the sea. However, the elder Ismail had put the blame on his ferry's captain, who he claimed wrongly believed the crew could deal with the fire when it broke out. The captain was amongst the dead.Ismail's assets were frozen and a travel ban was imposed on him following the disaster, but both were lifted later that year after he paid E£300,000,000 (US$57,000,000) into a victim's compensation fund. Many victims were poor Egyptian migrant workers, and some were bringing home savings accumulated over months or years.The Misdemeanor Court's acquittal of all except Gomaa — who was fined E£10,000 (US$1,887) — met with anger from relatives, who turned out en masse to hear the verdicts. One man told al-Jazeera "The day of the accident everybody saw that the ship was in bad shape and two years later they say the boat was in good shape. It doesn't make sense. This is awful. My wife and children died and after two years everyone responsible is found to be innocent."Public prosecutor Abdel Meguid Mahmud was also unhappy with the result. In a statement he said he intends to appeal the verdict and demand a retrial. He alleges serious "violations in documented records, corruption in investigation, shortcomings in validatings and arbitrary conclusions," and cites these as his reasons for a retrial.Five police officers were injured as they attempted to quell a demonstration over plans to build a large garbage tip on the edge of an Italian town, officials confirmed on Saturday. Two police officers and three carabinieri suffered minor injures during the protest, which lasted several hours. Residents of Terzigno, a municipality in the Province of Naples, hurled stones and fireworks at the police, who responded by attempting to disperse the demonstrators using teargas and baton charges. Protesters are campaigning against the opening of a new waste dump near the town, and the incident on Saturday is the latest in a series of demonstrations in which campaigners are preventing access to the existing garbage tip. The blockade means waste disposal workers are unable to collect refuse, and it has been reported that 2,000 tones of rubbish has already piled up on the streets of Naples. Protesters set the garbage alight on Friday evening, Rosa Russo Iervolino, the mayor of Naples confirmed. Some protesters burned Italian flags and set cars on fire. "The bad smell bothers us, but it is the lesser evil," one protester, a grammar school teacher, said. "The most important thing is that we are dying here, there is leukaemia, lymphoma, myeloma, there are the most terrible diseases around." Two parents added that their children were suffering from respiratory problems and paediatricians had advised them to move away from the area. "They have ruined our lives, the lives of our children who are growing up in a world of rubbish, they are destroying our lives day by day," said one.In 2007, Prime Minister of Italy Silvio Berlusconi pledged to create a solution to Italy's ever-growing problem with litter. However, a European commisioner has warned the Italian government that they may face legal action from the European Union (EU), who may be able to fine them for failing to improve waste management in Naples. "I am worried by what has been happening in Campania in recent days," said Janez Potočnik, the European Commissioner for the Environment.  He added that the EU were considering sending a team to the area to assess whether laws protecting human health and the enviroment were being breached. "Today's situation leads us to believe that measures taken by Italian authorities since 2007 are insufficient," he said. "What has been happening in the last days shows that the Italian authorities have not yet done what is needed." Mr. Potočnik added that he felt that the region still had no waste management and that the only incinerator "is not functioning properly and at full capacity."On Thursday, five police officers were killed and seven were injured after a sniper attacked a public protest march in downtown Dallas, Texas. Sources indicate at least three other people were taken into custody for questioning relating to the attack. The march was held to protest the shooting deaths of Alton Sterling in Louisiana and Philando Castile in Minnesota during engagements with police officers.Police identified 25-year-old Micah Johnson as the suspect. Johnson had previously served in the US army, and police reported he said he wanted to exact revenge upon police officers after news of Sterling and Castile's deaths. Ammunition and weapons were found inside Johnson's home. Dallas Police reported the policemen were shot at from a height. Officials said two civilians were also injured in the attack. Micah Johnson served for the United States Army Reserve from 2009 until early 2015, including a tour of Afghanistan. Johnson had no criminal record.  His attack was reported to be a lone mission.After the attack earlier on Thursday, police killed Micah Johnson in El Centro College's parking lot by a bomb explosion.Hillary Clinton, 2016 United States presidential election candidate and favorite for the Democratic nomination this July, said, "There is too much violence, too much hate, too much senseless killing, too many people dead who shouldn't be. No-one has all the answers. We have to find them together." After Johnson was killed, Mike Rawlings, Dallas' mayor, said "We believe now the city is safe".The bodies of five women within the United Kingdom have been found in or around the county of Suffolk in the east of England. The latest victims were found on 12 December 2006 in a rural area a few hundred meters apart, and one body discovered within 40 minutes of the other.Detectives investigating the murders have confirmed that the last body discovered was that of 29 year old Annette Nicholls. Five women have been found dead within 10 days and authorities face an "unprecedented" murder investigation. Britain's infamous historical serial killers are the 19th century murderer known as "Jack the Ripper", who was responsible for the deaths of five prostitutes in east London in 1888 but was never found and Peter Sutcliffe the "Yorkshire Ripper" who murdered 13 women, mainly those who worked in prostitution, over a period of five years in northern England. Suffolk Police have cited prostitutes to stay off the streets and women have been advised not to go out unaccompanied.Five South Korean workers have been kidnapped from a natural gas facility operated by Shell Petroleum Development Company in the Nigerian Delta. A group called the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta is claiming responsibility for the attack and kidnappings and says that one kidnapper and at least six Nigerian soldiers were killed on a Nigerian military boat, when gunmen entered the facility. The group's main demand is the release of a jailed militia leader, Mujahid Dokubo-Asari."[The Korean workers] are in good health and have been returned to one of our bases. As long as the units holding these individuals do not come under attack, no harm will come to the prisoners. We do not kill those fortunate to be captured by our fighters," said the group.The group also says that they "plan more attacks" on facilities and oil rigs in the near future."In the next few weeks our attacks will increase with the destruction of several facilities of crucial importance to the oil industry," said the group.One of the kidnapped victims is identified as Park Chang-am. "I want Dad to come back so we can go fishing," said the son of Chang-am, Park Myong-il.Toronto police responded to an emergency call from a 24-year-old who reported that five youths wearing balaclavas and carrying firearms had entered his apartment around 01:30 in the morning, and held him prisoner while they stole his belongings.The Emergency Task Force was dispatched to East Toronto where they arrested the teenagers who were all together in a single house along with the stolen plasma-screen television, a video game system and jewelry. While weapons were found among them, there was no sign of any firearms.Two of the youths, 18-year-old Joshua Lourie and another who cannot be named under the Youth Criminal Justice Act, had prior arrests and were charged with failing to abide by the terms of their releases.West Mercia Police have made the announcement that a five-year-old girl that was physically involved in a crash involving a car going into a river has died in Birmingham Children's Hospital, United Kingdom. The child has been identified as Gabrielle Grady. She was also known as Gabby.Gabrielle was involved in a vehicle crash on Thursday when the car she was in crashed into the River Avon in the town of Evesham in Worcestershire, England.  There were three occupants in the Vauxhall Vectra, including Gabrielle, her six-year-old brother Ryan, and her 41-year-old father Chris Grady, who was driving the vehicle.  It took 12 minutes for divers to free Gabrielle from the car, which was partially underwater.West Mercia Police announced on Sunday that Gabby had died in Birmingham Children's Hospital at approximately 1330 (1:30 pm) GMT that day. From the time of her entry into the hospital, she was considered to be in a critical condition. Her family was with her at the time of her death. West Mercia Police also commented that Ryan was still recovering in the hospital.This incident is currently being treated as suspicious, with Chris Grady being remanded in custody for offences of attempted murder. The police have stated that this incident is currently being handled as a murder investigation.A Florida college professor and his wife have been indicted on charges that they are illegal foreign agents and passed on non-classified information to Cuba.Florida International University (FIU) education professor Carlos Alvarez, 61, and his wife Elsa, 55, were ordered to be held without bond or bail on Monday. The U.S. Magistrate Judge Andrea Simonton sided with federal prosecution arguments stating the couple would leave their five children and flee to Cuba if granted bail.Neither of the two entered pleas in Miami Federal Court to the charge that they failed to register themselves as agents from a foreign government.The couple are reported to have lived "low-profile lives" in the academic community. Despite strong criticism from friends and colleagues, federal agents say that the Alvarezes have been "secretly spying for the Cuban government for decades, using all their academic background as covers."Citing university policy, FIU put the Alvarezes on administrative leave, with pay Monday, the first day of school for spring semester. Supervisors were asked to relay all questions to FIU's media relations director, Mark Riordan.The Alvarezes were, however, not charged with the more serious crime of espionage, but the indictment does state that they were trained and equipped by Cuba's Directorate of Intelligence and recruited "young people of Cuban heritage" in the U.S. to be spies. The charge carries up to a 10-year prison term and fines up to $250,000.One of the children, who on April 6 was removed from the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (FLDS) compound in Texas, has been reunited with his/her parents after a deal was struck between the Texas Department of Family and Protective Services and the parents.Although the Texas authorities retain legal control over the child, the parents have been given the temporary right to look after their child. Dan Jessop, one of the parents, commented on the development. "It's one step closer to my family being together."401 allegedly abused children were taken into state custody last month after officials received a call from a distressed 16-year-old girl. The children were found in a 1700-acre compound belonging to the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints. It is now believed that the original phone call was actually a hoax.The agreement follows an appeals court-ruling that Texas Child Protective Services (CPS) should not have taken the children from the FLDS.Meanwhile, CPS filed court papers today, saying that the families may choose to flee Texas if they are reunited per the appeals courts ruling. If they did that, they would suddenly be outside the court's jurisdiction, putting them at risk of abuse.Lawyers for the mothers of the children, filed a counter-motion, stating that the children face "continuing, irreparable harm every day that they are separated from their parents."Police were monitoring the compound ever since it was bought by the group one year ago. According to Texas law there must have been "a danger to the physical health or safety of the child which was caused by an act or failure to act of the person entitled to possession and for the child to remain in the home is contrary to the welfare of the child". In addition to the above there must also be "the urgent need for protection required the immediate removal of the child and reasonable efforts, consistent with the circumstances and providing for the safety of the child, were made to eliminate or prevent the child’s removal"Finally, for state custody to be allowed there must also have been "reasonable efforts have been made to enable the child to return home". A lower court was given 10 days to make a decision on whether the above requirements are met. Although originally the mothers were allowed to stay with the children, they are not required to be separate unless the parents are aged under  eighteen or the children are very young. The FLDS said in an open letter the Governor of Texas that a "critical crisis" was unfolding due to these recent incidents. In addition to Texas, the group has compounds in Hildale and many other locations. The church has around 10,000 members in total, and was founded in the 1930s. The church split from the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints due to the fact that it abandoned polygamy.The Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints is led by Warren Jeffs – jailed last year for the rape and forced marriage of a 14 year old girl – is a breakaway branch of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which abandoned the practice of polygamy in 1890.The Los Angeles Times reports that the transcript of the voice recorder on United Airlines Flight 93 was read during the on-going trial of Zacarias Moussaoui, the self-proclaimed Al-Qaeda member being charged with terrorism in connection with the September 11, 2001 attacks.The transcript is the first recording of the hijacked airplane's voice recorders to be released to the general public.  In 2004, when the 9/11 Commission Report was finished, some details of the recording were published, however the full transcript was not included in the publication.The transcript, which has been viewed by the 9/11 Commission Report, references to people trying to get in the cockpit at 9:58 a.m. EST.  The transcript at timestamp 09:58:57 records a voice in Arabic saying, "(They want to get in here. Hold, hold from the inside. Hold from the inside. Hold)."  Minutes later, a voice in English is recorded, stating, "In the cockpit. If we don't, we'll die." The reading of the United Airlines Flight 93 voice recorder transcript during the on-going trial of Zacarias Moussaoui confirms what has already been stated in the findings of the 9/11 Commission — there is nothing to show any passenger ever got into cockpit or fought the terrorists before the plane crashed at 10:03 a.m. EST. The transcript does not record anyone saying, "Let's roll" as stated in previous media reports, but has one person saying "roll it."  The phrase "Let's roll" has become a popular catchphrase, said to be stated by Todd Beamer, in reference to the attempt of passengers of Flight 93 to stop the hijackers.  President Bush used the phrase in his 2002 State of the Union Address.The flight simulation website Avsim has recently been "destroyed" after an attack by hackers. The website was used for all types of computer flight simulation, but it was mainly devoted to Flight Simulator X. It was launched thirteen years ago, in 1996."The method of the hack makes recovery difficult, if not impossible, to recover from," said Tom Allensworth, the founder of Avsim. "AVSIM is totally offline at this time and we expect to be so for some time to come. We are not able to predict when we will be back online, if we can come back at all." The attack destroyed both of the site's servers. "Some have asked whether or not we had back ups. Yes, we dutifully backed up our servers every day. Unfortunately, we backed up the servers between our two servers," said Allensworth. "The hacker took out both servers, destroying our ability to use one or the other back up to remedy the situation." "It looks like 13 years of hard work on Tom's part could have been wiped out. Avsim is an important site, because it services the whole community as a source of community developed terrains, skins, and mods - its contribution has been immeasurable," the editor of PC Magazine, Derek Davis, told the BBC news agency.Two suspected robbers west of Kissimmee, Florida released one hostage after negotiating with sheriffs' deputies. Other hostages remain inside, authorities say. Police later shot and killed one bank robber and arrested a second on after a 10 hour stand-off with police. "A sniper shot the male suspect while the female was in custody", said Osceola County Sheriff Bob Hansell. Four hostages were not injured.The suspects had escaped the Mercantile Bank, a mile west of Walt Disney World's Wide World of Sports, with one hostage after authorities blasted through the rear door using an explosive device. But police soon cornered them in their getaway car, authorities said. The male suspect then "used the hostage again as a shield to get into another vehicle," Hansell said. "He tried to leave again and at that point he was taken down by one of our snipers."Deputies had been using cell phones to negotiate with the suspects, who were wearing masks, wigs and coats.Around 7:15 p.m. EST, police blasted through the bank's rear door. The suspects escaped with a female hostage and drove away in a bank employee's car, but they traveled less than a mile before street barricades stopped them. Shots were fired at deputies but nobody was hurt, police said. The suspects had been holed up in the bank since Tuesday morning. The first hostage was released when the robbers panicked when deputies arrived so quickly after the robbery, said sheriff's spokeswoman Twis Lizasuain. The second was freed in exchange for cigarettes and the third after deputies agreed to back their vehicles a few feet farther away from the bank, Lizasuain said.Police did not release the names the hostages, but the suspects were identified Wednesday as a 50-year-old male, Gaetano Alessandrello, and a 26-year old woman, Amanda Lynn Moeller. It was not immediately clear whether the suspects ever got any money. Tourists near the bank, in hotels, were confined to them for hours as police asked them "to stay indoors".The hostages said they were treated well and were not threatened with violence, Hansell said.The same bank was robbed just 2 months ago on November 16, 2005. It is unclear if the two robberies are connected or not.The US state of Florida has repealed an order by the state's governor to drug test all state employees and new hires to state agencies. The Miami federal court has said that the order is unconstitutional, violating the  ban upon 'unreasonable' search and seizure.Last year, Governor Rick Scott ordered 80,000 drug tests on state employees. He is a former health care executive and objects to the ruling against drug testing. "As I have repeatedly explained, I believe that drug testing state employees is a common sense means of ensuring a safe, efficient and productive workforce," Scott said yesterday.Howard Simon, executive director of the A.C.L.U. of Florida, said, "The governor can't order the state to search people's bodily fluids for no reason." Governor Scott is also dealing with a drug testing-related lawsuit for recipients of welfare.George Zimmerman, the Florida neighborhood watch captain who faces second-degree murder charges for shooting and killing  Trayvon Martin, took the stand Friday in a Florida courtroom for a bond hearing. While on stand, Zimmerman apologized to the parents of 17-year-old  Trayvon Martin. "I am sorry for the loss of your son. I did not know how old he was. I thought he was a little bit younger than I am. I did not know if he was armed or not," Zimmerman said addressing Martin's family directly.Judge Kenneth Lester granted Zimmerman with a US$150,000 bond, about €100,000,  at the conclusion of the hearing. Zimmerman will also have to wear a GPS monitoring device. Mark O’Mara, Zimmerman's attorney, said it will take some time to collect bail and that he expects Zimmerman to be released from custody within a few days. Prosecutor Bernie De La Rionda argued Zimmerman should not have been allowed bond or if he was given bond that it should have been set at US$1 million, which is about €750,000. A photograph obtained by ABC News could give credibility to Zimmerman's story. The photo is of Zimmerman’s head, covered in blood. Zimmerman claims Martin had pummeled his head into the concrete during their fight. Robert Zimmerman, a former magistrate and the accused's father, testified in regards to Zimmerman’s injuries after Martin was killed."His face was swollen quite a bit," Robert Zimmerman said. "There was a protective cover over his nose, his lip was cut and there were two vertical gashes on the back of his head."During the hearing, O’Mara questioned State Attorney’s Investigator, Dale Gilbreath, who confessed that no clear evidence has been found that proves Zimmerman attacked Martin first. Zimmerman’s family insisted that Zimmerman was not a violent person. "He's absolutely not a violent person or a threat to the community," said Zimmerman’s wife, Shellie. Zimmerman’s wife and parents were fearful of their safety and testified through phone at the hearing. Shellie asked the court keep Zimmerman’s address secret once he is released for fear of his safety.A Florida man was arrested after he allegedly left multiple phone messages with a local animal shelter in Brooksville, threatening to blow them up. Peter Dalessandro, 52, surrendered himself to authorities around 11:00 p.m. (local time) on Wednesday. Dalessandro has been charged with multiple counts of threatening to place or discharge an explosive device and multiple counts of assault. Dalessandro allegedly made six calls after a puppy the shelter had taken in was euthanized quickly. He called the shelter several times on April 20 and threatened to kill anyone who was there and stated that a bomb was on the property. A search of the property, however, revealed no bomb.Allegedly, Dalessandro was angered about a recent incident involving euthanizing of an eight-month-old puppy at the shelter within fifteen minutes after the dog's arrival. According to reports, it is the animal shelter's policy to euthanize animals as soon as possible if there is no room to house them. However, The Miami Herald reports a shelter volunteer's claim that there were at least ten kennels open at the time the dog was taken in. An investigation has been opened into the incident and is ongoing. Several employees of the shelter have been relieved of their duties until it has completed.The director of the shelter called the euthanizing a mistake. Further reports reveal that Dalessandro allegedly called the shelter staff "scumbags" and told them, "I don't know how you can make an error like that. I'm going to place a bomb and kill everybody." Dalessandro has reportedly made threats of a similar nature not related to this case. According to police, Dalessandro has a history of harshly reacting to news of animals dying or which have suffered abuse and has a rap sheet dating back to 2001. Some of the accusations against him include calling individuals who have been accused of killing animals and calling an attorney defending an individual accused of killing a dog.With the start of a new academic year, schools throughout the US state of Florida are beginning to enforce a new law that bans students from wearing revealing attire.  The state legislature overwhelmingly voted earlier this year to prohibit male students from wearing their pants so low such that their underwear is exposed. Girls are also not allowed to wear low-cut and midriff-exposing shirts. Signed by Governor Rick Scott in June, the law comes into effect during the 2011-2012 school year. Florida joined Arkansas as the only states with such widespread bans against saggy pants.The law only applies on school campuses. Principals are required to issue a verbal warning to first-time offenders and call their parents. Students who repeatedly violate the law may be punished with up to three days of in-school suspension and up to one month of suspension from extracurricular activities. Gary Siplin, a Democratic State Senator from Orlando, had pushed for the ban for six years. An African American, he disagreed with accusations by the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People that the law infringes upon individual freedom and targets minority students. Citing a need to encourage professionalism and preparedness for college, he said "I'm not going to hire anyone, white or black, with saggy pants. I want to make sure our kids qualify."On Monday Siplin handed out a dozen belts donated by a local church to students wearing saggy pants at Oak Ridge High School in Orlando. Another 100 were donated to two other predominantly minority schools as students began their first week of classes last week.Cyclist Floyd Landis, who finished first in the 2006 Tour de France but is fighting a positive doping test that would strip him of the title, is now pushing his case on the Internet. Facing an appeal before the United States Anti-Doping Agency next year, Landis dubbed this approach "the Wikipedia defense".Landis said on October 12, 2006 that he had published a number of documents in the case "to support his innocence in the alleged positive doping test". These included his attorney's motion for dismissal, a document package containing test information, and a PowerPoint presentation criticizing the test. This action earned considerable but sometimes-skeptical media coverage in the ongoing saga over the disputed race.Landis did not set up an actual wiki, but attempted to draw on the collective resources of cycling fans, using the Internet to allow widely distributed review of evidence in his case. He succeeded in getting the community to establish its own wiki independent of him personally, based largely on the Daily Peloton Forum discussions noted below. The topic had already drawn intense interest in a variety of places, including Landis's Wikipedia entry, which has figured as something of a battleground. The release serves as both a public relations strategy and a way to potentially strengthen his appeal. As Landis put it, "Why turn down free brainpower?"In anticipation of the release of these documents, Landis had been personally posting on the forums at the Daily Peloton cycling website. He is largely out of action while rehabilitating from hip resurfacing surgery performed in September. As the documents were about to be released, Landis said, "I am sure you guys will find every mistake, even things we haven't noticed."In forum discussions, Landis agreed with sympathetic posters who pointed to this as a "wisdom of crowds" approach, while asking others not to judge him based on incomplete information from media reports. He encouraged people to look at all of the evidence, saying, "We'll call it the Wikipedia defense, and I would have given everything to you sooner but had a very hard time selling the idea to the lawyers." At the same time, he said that not all of his arguments against the test had been revealed: "We are not going to compromise our defense by telling all of it."Sealed Air Corporation, a packaging company based in Elmwood Park, New Jersey has agreed to settle legal action over the Station nightclub fire on Rhode Island in February 2003. The disaster killed 100 people with more than twice as many injured and this settlement is one of a series over the blaze.The fire was triggered by pyrotechnics in use by hard rock band Great White who were performing at the West Warwick venue at the time. They ignited flammable soundproofing foam on the walls.The latest settlement brings the total amount of settlements to $148.815 million, although all of these settlements are still tentative and subject to approval by families and a judge. Other companies that have already settled include Clear Channel Broadcasting, whose rock radio station was the show's promoter, Anheuser-Busch Inc., The Home Depot Inc., a pyrotechnics manufacturer and several other foam companies.Others still defending in the case, which names dozens of groups and individuals, include Rhode Island state, the fire inspector that did not enforce regulations at the club, and American Foam Corporation, who sold more foam to the Derderian brothers. The Derderians bought the club in 2000, whereas the foam allegedly manufactured by Sealed Air was installed in 1996. Sealed Air deny any wrongdoing, saying it was never proven that they indeed manufactured the foam and that the foam was being misused as soundproofing in any event.Regardless of the origin of the foam, it was argued that it burned too easily and produced toxic fumes when it did.The criminal case around the fire was resolved in 2006, with the Derderians and Great White tour manager Daniel Biechele - who ignited the pyrotechnics - charged with involuntary manslaughter. The Derderians pleaded no contest and Biechele pleaded guilty.Biechele was released on parole and Michael Derderian is due for parole next year. His brother was sentenced only to probation and community service.Sealed Air's insurance will pay the settlement.The two robbers who were shot after an attempted robbery on an armoured van in Chandler's Ford, near Southampton UK have been named as Andrew Markland, 36, and Mark Nunes, 35.  They were both from Brixton, London.Terence Wallace, 25, also from London appeared before a court today on charges of attempted robbery and possession of a firearm.  Police also confirmed they had found the blue Volvo that was involved with the robbery and which is now subject to forensic investigation.The Independent Police Complaints Commission will open next week as part of the investigation into the shooting of the two men who died after being shot by Metropolitan Police marksmen as part of an operation by the Flying Squad.According to Radio Free Asia, North Korean authorities are retaliating against players in the national football team who played in the 2010 World Cup. The team lost all three matches. It was only the second time that the North Koreans had qualified for the World Cup finals. Members of the squad, excepting Japanese nationals Jong Tae-se and An Yong-Hak who were in their homeland, were publicly shamed in a Stalinist-style event where more than 400 people, including journalists and political leaders, insulted and humiliated the team.Following the event, the team's coach Kim Jung Hun has been sentenced to hard labor following a speedy trial. "He will carry loads on a building site for fourteen hours a day," reports Le Figaro. He was found guilty of "betrayal of trust of Kim Jong-un", the son and heir of country leader Kim Jong-Il who determined the final team roster, and allegedly expelled from the Worker's Party.In the past, national coaches have not returned to their countries following losses in the finals in the World Cup. In 1978, Mexican coach, Jose Antonio Roca would not return to his country following the elimination of the team in the first group stage. Like their North Korean counterparts who lost 7–0 against Portugal, the Mexicans had suffered a heavy defeat against Germany, losing 6–0.English footballer Adam Johnson has been arrested on suspicion of having sex with a girl under the age of 16. Johnson, who currently plays for Sunderland A.F.C. , was arrested yesterday morning at his home. Durham Police confirmed they had arrested a "27-year-old man [...] on suspicion of sexual activity with a girl under 16."A neighbour of Johnson's spoke to The Sun newspaper about the arrest. They said "All the main activity was between 9.15am and 9.35am. Three undercover cars and a scenes of crime van arrived. As far as I know he lives there with his girlfriend".He was due to travel with his club to face Hull on Tuesday night in the English Premier League. However since the news of his arrest broke Sunderland AFC have released a statement confirming his suspension. The club said "Sunderland AFC has confirmed Adam Johnson has been suspended from the club, pending the outcome of a police investigation."Johnson has made 105 appearances for Sunderland having previously played for Middlesbrough, Leeds United, and Manchester City. He has represented England on 12 occasions and scored two goals for the national team. He last played for the England National Team in 2012.On Tuesday the World Bank released the 2012 World Development Report on Gender Equality and Development.  For Jamaica the report highlights a number of negative gender issues for the nation's men.The report claims that getting an education in Jamaica is viewed as primarily a female activity. This cultural attitude encourages males to leave school early. In 2008, girls outnumbered boys in secondary school by a ratio of 1.04:1. At the same time, boys were more likely to have to repeat a year of school. Only 16% of boys passed five or more Caribbean Secondary Education Certificate exams compared to 30% of girls. Boys outperformed girls only in vocational subjects and physics. The report cites four key challenges in boys' development identified by a national programme.  They are low self-esteem, limited future employment opportunities, lack of discipline, and masculine identities that eschew education. A program in Jamaica uses cash incentives to encourage at-risk boys to stay in school; other countries like Pakistan use cash incentives to encourage girls to stay in school. Jamaica's program has resulted an average increase in boys attending school by 0.5 days a month.  At the same time, fathers are urged to become more involved with their childrens' schooling and changes are being made to the curriculum to make it "more boy-friendly".Definitions of masculinity result in less employment opportunities and smaller earnings potential. The report claims Jamaican definitions of masculinity also encourage more risky behavior, and sexual behaviors valuing achievement and competence above intimacy. The report says these factors increase physical and sexual violence towards women.Male mortality is increasing in Jamaica.  The report cites crime and violence as causes.A group of ships from several navies gave chase to a small pirate boat, leading to a capture, in the Gulf of Aden, Somalia. The pirates had fired upon a tanker of the German Navy, the Rhön-class FGS Spessart, in the mistaken belief she was a commercial vessel.A small pirate skiff approached the tanker and opened fire upon her. However, sailors on the Spessart fired back. The skiff fled, and the German supply ship gave chase. After requesting assistance from other vessels in the area, Greek, Spanish, Dutch and United States warships all joined the chase. A Spanish marine aircraft and two US Marine Cobra helicopters were also involved.After a five-hour chase the Greeks were able to board the pirate boat, capturing the seven people on board. Their weapons were seized and they have been transferred to German frigate Rheinland-Pfalz for questioning pending possible prosecution. Assault rifles and rocket propelled grenades were among the weapons seized.A Spokesman for NATO said "Poor judgment by the pirates turned out to be a real opportunity for seven nations representing three task forces to work together and strike a momentous blow for maritime safety and security." A spokesman for the German Ministry said the incident "showcased the incredible international naval capabilities" and "highlighted the complexity of counter-piracy operations".The skeletal remains of Shunte Coleman, a missing person since 2006, have reportedly been found near the Angelina National Forest in the US state of Texas. On Friday, the San Augustine, Texas sherriff's department announced remains found in San Augustine by a forester earlier this year are a DNA match for Coleman.A forensic anthropologist from Sam Houston State University assisted with the investigation and determined the findings matched Jacksonville resident Coleman.In 2006 Coleman's family said the 26-year-old Shunte was likely dead. Connections were drawn between Coleman and Jacksonville Police Officer Larry Pugh, who was later sentenced in March 2007 to a twelve-year jail term for sex assault while on duty and retaliation against a witness. Frances Hicks, Coleman's sister, said, "She was loved. She wasn't just some nobody that nobody thought of. She was loved" "I think somewhere inside of us, we knew... but this is closure".Police are yet to suggest a cause of death. Jacksonville Police Chief Reece Daniel stated on Friday, "We are making no comments or making any speculation because we are not going to impede any other agency’s investigation[...] We had a missing person's case that is now cleared, and we will cooperate with the agencies involved if they request our assistance."Police hunting for the missing 4-year old Madeleine McCann finally receive the forensic results of samples taken of blood, saliva and hair found in the apartment she was abducted from on May 3 2007. It is expected to lead to a "significant development" in the case and may bring up new leads. Robert Murat, the only official suspect in the case, denies all allegations that he took the girl.Former American Idol finalist Jessica Sierra, 22, has had her invitation to perform at an upcoming concert for United States troops retracted, following her recent arrest for disorderly conduct while intoxicated.Sierra is likely to remain in jail at the Hillsborough County jail in her native Tampa until her next hearing on December 20, where she is being held without bail, which would prevent her attending the Washington event on Friday even if she still had permission to perform.Sierra has been in jail since the start of the month after an altercation with police officers outside a Tampa nightclub, which she had been ejected from. She is charged with disorderly intoxication and resisting arrest."While we appreciate Ms. Sierra's past efforts to support US troops, including performing for them in Iraq on Independence Day, it is quite obvious that Ms. Sierra needs to devote a great deal of time to putting her life back together. That effort must take place in private and not in the limelight of the public eye or on the stage." said a statement by retired Air Force Lieutenant Colonel Buzz Patterson concerning the event.Patterson said Move America Forward, who is organizing the concert, had received comments from patrons who were concerned about her participation. John Fitzgibbons, attorney for Jessica, refused to comment.Jessica Sierra is pregnant, according to the Falkenburg Road Jail in Tampa, Florida, where she is imprisoned awaiting trial for charges of disorderly intoxication, violating parole and resisting arrest. Sierra became famous after once reaching the finals of American Idol.Reports have been made by the prison infirmary that Sierra has been moved to a pregnancy diet and is confirmed to be pregnant. The father is said to be an unidentified rap musician.Sierra had originally been due to go before a judge on the 20th, but her pregnancy has caused this to be postponed indefinitely.Sierra was arrested on December 2 outside a local bar, and is being held without bond. Police claim that after they arrived, she first assaulted an officer then attempted to bribe him by offering to perform a sex act on him. Only two weeks earlier she had pleaded no contest to charges of battery and possessing cocaine. If she is convicted of all the new charges, she could be imprisoned for up to 11 years, which would mean she would have the baby whilst still in prison.Sierra earlier pled not guilty to all charges.Former Australian water polo champion Keli Lane, 36,  received an eighteen year prison term with a non-parole period of thirteen years and five months after being convicted of killing her two-day old daughter, Tegan.The Sydney woman had been in custody since December when she was found guilty of her infant's 1996 murder, despite the fact  the baby’s body was never found. Lane has repeatedly denied any guilt in the murder, maintaining she gave the baby to its biological father, a man she named as either Andrew Morris or Andrew Norris. Although there were extensive police searches, neither man has been located.The trial took seventeen weeks. Around 200 people were present in the New South Wales Supreme Court to watch Justice Anthony Whealy sentence Lane. In his two-hour sentencing remarks, Justice Whealy said he accepted the Crown's claim that Lane had deliberately killed her baby, whom he said had been murdered. "She must have found herself in a desperate situation and could see no way out," he said.Justice Whealey said that Lane did not have a mental illness; rather she had  a personality disorder that caused her to feel illogically trapped and isolated.  He noted that it was not known how the child died, but said the murder was not premeditated but rather  "spontaneous". He acknowledged that she was only 21 when the crime occurred and  referred to the case as  "the most profound tragedy" on multiple levels.Noting that Lane had been  rehabilitated and was now  a "very different person", he said, "The testimonials demonstrate that Keli has a unique rapport and successful relationship with young children generally."  The judge believed Lane posed no further threat to society and was unlikely to re-offend.County Court Judge Barbera Cottrell overturned earlier perjury convictions against Stephen Linnell, former media director of Victoria Police.A Melbourne magistrate accepted Linnell's guilty plea to three charges of perjury to the state of Victoria's Office of Police Integrity (OPI) in 2008. Linnell was sentenced to eight months in a corrective facility, suspension from the police department, and fined AS$5,000.The Victorian Supreme Court eventually ruled the OPI hearings were invalid, leading to the dismissal of similar cases against superior members of the police department, including former Assistant Police Commissioner Noel Ashby and former union chief Paul Mullett. Linnell then appealed the judgment against him, heard very briefly before Judge Cottrell."I'm obviously pleased with today's decision," Linnell said in a statement. "As you can imagine, it has been a difficult time for me."The investigation into Linnell, led by the OPI, came about over allegations of information leaks compromising critical operation of murder investigations. Legal technicalities — such as the former head of the OPI investigation being unable to administer legal oaths — resulted in the gathered evidence being inadmissible.A former vice president of the Bartlett Park District in Illinois, United States was sentenced to 30 months of probation and 200 hours of community service for possession of child pornography. Charles Rowe, a 61-year-old commissioner of the park district since 2001, was also fined US$1,000 and must register as a sex offender for the rest of his life. The investigation against Mr. Rowe began in September 2007 when PayPal tipped law enforcement authorities of the illegal purchase. On July 22, 2008, Bartlett police officers and federal agents from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement executed a search warrant on his home and seized his computers. He was later arrested on December 10 and was charged with two Class 3 felony counts of possession of child pornography. He posted the minimum 10% of his US$100,000 bond and was released from the DuPage County jail the next day, when he effectively resigned from his post on the park district board. He pleaded guilty to one of the two counts on November 30, 2009.The crime apparently did not use park district computers. Mr. Rowe was first elected to the board in 2001 and was reelected to a second six-year term in 2007. A background check done on him after his election revealed no previous criminal record.Former Bosnian president Dr. Ejup Ganić was arrested by the Metropolitan Police at Heathrow Airport, London on Monday. He was attempting to leave the United Kingdom when authorities apprehended him. Ganić was arrested on an extradition warrant issued by the Serbian government for alleged warcrimes he committed during the 1990s Balkans conflict. He is accused of involvement in a 1992 attack on a Yugoslav army convoy in Sarajevo where more than 40 people were killed.Scotland Yard said Ganić "was arrested on behalf of the Serbian authorities under a provisional extradition warrant alleging 'conspiracy to murder with other named people and breach of the Geneva Convention, namely killing wounded soldiers...',". A Foreign Office spokesman confirmed Ganić's arrest following "a extradition request" from Serbian government.Ganić, now 63 years old, appeared later at the City of Westminster Magistrates' Court, where he was remanded in custody for four weeks.  Another court hearing will take place on March 29 when the Serbian authorities are expected to file papers to support the extradition request.  Serbian Justice Minister Snezana Malovic told the Beta news agency that her ministry would send the extradition request on Tuesday.Ganić had been in the UK for several days, attending events at Buckingham University, which is partnered with Sarajevo School of Science and Technology where Ganić is a academic. He was also detained on Friday after arriving in London, but was released immediately as no extradition request had been received. Students at the Sarajevo university have phoned radio stations, urging Sarajevans to protest at the British embassy.The Serbian Government had accused Ganić and eighteen others and issued warrants against them in 2009 over the May 1992 attack. He had dismissed these allegations as being "ridiculous" and said "For Serbia, anyone who defended our country must be arrested."Damir Arnaut, political adviser to Bosniak (Bosnian Muslim) president Haris Silajdžić said, "Bosnia has tried to establish correct relations with Serbia, but this political act is obviously directed against Bosnia's sovereignty." Ganić's daughter Emina accused Serbia of implicating her father "on the grounds of the evidence that already was dismissed by the war crimes tribunal in The Hague."The Association of Detainees of Republika Srpska stated "by arresting Ganić the international community has finally understood that the time has come that war crimes committed against Bosnian Serbs be processed also."Ganić has a PhD in Engineering Science from the Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology in Boston and had lectured in two American universities. He served as both vice-president and president of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina after it broke from the former Yugoslavia. The ethnic cleansing that ensued claimed more than 100,000 victims.The genocide trial of former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadžić began today at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague.Karadžić faces 11 charges, including genocide, war crimes, and crimes against humanity, which relate to the Bosnian War of the 1990s. He denies all of the charges.Now 64, Karadžić had been in hiding for 13 years before being taken to The Hague for trial, which opened 14 years after the events to which it refers, and is expected to last until 2012. Karadžić announced on Thursday that he did not intend to attend the opening day, and it began without his presence. As he plans to defend himself, the trial could not continue.Karadžić says he needs more time to prepare, and the trial has been adjourned until tomorrow to allow the judges to consider their options. If Karadžić fails to attend repeatedly, a defence lawyer may be assigned to him in order to allow the trial to continue in his absence.The start date has been delayed twice, and a request by Karadžić for a further 10-month delay was rejected. He has also attempted to request that the charges be dropped on the grounds that former US mediator Richard Holbrooke offered him immunity in 1996 if he retired from public life. The court rejected this appeal.Hissen Habre, the former President of Chad, has received a death sentence for plotting to overthrow the Chadian government.  He is currently in exile and is living in Senegal.In addition, the head of Rally of Forces for Change, Timane Erdimi, was sentenced to death in absentia as well as 10 other individuals. Erdimi is related to the current President of Chad, Idriss Déby. 32 other people were penalized with hard labor. The inquiry said that Habre's government was responsible for 40,000 politically motivated murders and 200,000 torture cases. The trial, which began on Tuesday, lasted for three days. The individuals tried in the hearing, received no legal defence throughout the period. El Hadj Diouf, Habre's lawyer in Senegal, stated that "this is a manipulation ... I'm not taking this seriously." Habre is expected to be tried in Senegal per the request of the African Union. The trial could potentially be years away, as no official date has been set.Since being forced out of power in 1990, Habre has fought in a rebellion against the Chadian government along the eastern border of the country.Slovak attorney Ernest Valko, 57, was killed yesterday in his house in Limbach near Bratislava. An unknown man shot Valko once in the heart from several meters away.The police department dealing with organized crime started investigating the murder. It refused to speculate about any motive. According to today's statements, neither Valko, nor his colleagues had alerts about any possible attack.Valko was a member of the Czechoslovakia parliament after the Velvet Revolution, serving as a deputy speaker of the lower house between 1990 and 1991. He made important contributions to key laws including the preamble of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Basic Freedoms. In 1992, Valko led the Czechoslovak constitutional court since its establishment in April till the dissolution of Czechoslovakia at the end of the year. Since 1993, Valko has worked as an attorney representing prominent figures as well as several state institutions.Slovak politicians and attorneys spoke about shock from the news and offered their condolences to the Valko's family.The Register, a British technology news and opinion website, reports that a former Wikimedia Foundation Chief Operating Officer (COO) has a criminal record in at least four U.S. states: Texas, Maryland, Virginia and Florida.Carolyn Doran, born Carolyn Sue Bothwell, was the WMF COO for six months from January to July 2007. The Register reported Doran's criminal record includes four convictions for driving under the influence, two of check fraud and petty larceny, one hit and run with fatality, and one charge of unlawful wounding for shooting former boyfriend Philip L. Brown in the chest in 1990. He later asked that no charges be made against her and they resumed dating each other. Two of the arrests for driving under the influence occurred this year, once in May while she was working for the Foundation and once a month after she resigned."He asked me to marry him after I shot him," Doran told The Washington Post on February 22, 1990.Wikinews has confirmed, through Pinellas County police reports, that she was convicted in four DUI's and also the hit and run. It is also confirmed, she faced an additional charge of driving while a license is suspended or revoked (DWLSR).In 1994, Doran was implicated in the murder of a man who was the lover of her friend, Cassondra Sue Betancourt. Betancourt was later convicted of the man's first degree murder in 1995 after a jury trial. According to court documents, Betancourt, "brought some cocaine to a hotel room that had been rented by the victim, her lover. The next morning, after defendant left the room, the victim was discovered dead." Doran, who had prior knowledge that Betancourt would deliver the drugs, made a plea deal with prosecutors that if she testified against Betancourt, she would get a lesser sentence for her previous charges of credit card fraud and petty larceny. Although Doran assisted the prosecution in attempting to gain incriminating evidence by wearing a wire while with Betancourt, Doran never received her lesser sentence. Despite the attempt, Betancourt's conviction was later overturned in 1998 because "there was insufficient evidence to support the conviction. The court held that there had only been circumstantial evidence linking defendant to the crime, and that proof by circumstantial evidence was not sufficient to prove first degree murder," added the court papers.Wikinews can also confirm that Doran's husband, Sean H. Doran, a former intelligence officer and major for the U.S. Air Force, to whom she was married for only five days, drowned on their honeymoon on Grand Cayman in the Cayman Islands in 1999. According to The Washington Post, the cause of the drowning which led to his death was not known.  It was later acknowledged in private records given to the Library of Virginia that his death was deemed accidental.Six months later she remarried after meeting a man named Christopher Dale Confer in Arapahoe County, Colorado. It was earlier thought she used Confer as an alias, because according to PACER, she filed for bankruptcy in 2001 where she is listed as having "aliases," one being Carolyn S. King and the other as Carolyn Confer. The Register quotes Mike Godwin, the Wikimedia Foundation's general counsel, as saying that the Foundation had no knowledge of Doran's prior or current criminal record. "We've never had any documentation of any criminal record on Carolyn Doran's part at all. As far as I'm concerned, I have no direct knowledge of [her criminal record] yet...We have, in our records, no evidence of any such thing."Wikinews attempted to contact Mr. Godwin via e-mail but no response has yet been received. Doran was voted into her COO position by the Wikimedia Board of Trustees at the time. Of the seven board members, six supported her position and one did not. The vote was made and agreed upon on January 22, 2007. She was in charge of "all office/administrative issues" and "overall administration and business operations. Areas of responsibility included administration, personnel and fiscal management. In the future, [she will be in charge of] any new employee working in the administrative area," according to public e-mails on Wikimedia's main mailing list foundation-l.According to Florence Devouard, the Chair of the WMF Board of Trustees, background checks were not performed on anyone until at least 2007, but that recently, the Foundation began to perform them. During that time, Brad Patrick was acting Executive Director and he did all the hiring."In fall 2006, we did not perform criminal background checks. From what I understood, Mike took care of this and this is now being done. It is fairly recent, the board did not get any report on this," said Devouard on foundation-l.Doran was searched and questioned by U.S. Customs agents in Florida after returning from a Foundation board meeting in the Netherlands around June. According to The Register, it was because she violated the terms of her parole by attending the meeting. She was not arrested, but according to police reports, on October 31, 2007, Doran was arrested under a warrant valid for a "nationwide extradition". Doran was then extradited back to Virginia, where she is currently being held in a prison in Staunton.Doran resigned from her position in July 2007, and the Foundation is currently without a Chief Operating Officer.Police arrived at Augusto Pinochet's home this morning in the Chilean capital of Santiago to fingerprint the 90 year old man and take a mugshot, in an incident his lawyer called an insult.  His lawyer, Pablo Rodriguez, said, "This is insulting but what pains us the most is not that a police record has been made for a former president but that there are no legal grounds to do so," and "this is an arbitrary procedure by the judge."  Judge Victor Montiglio ordered the mugshots and fingerprints to create a file on Pinochet.  He has been under house arrest since November 2005.Pinochet is being charged in relation to Operation Colombo, where 119 political dissidents disappeared during his reign in the mid-1970s.  Pinochet's regime claims that they all died in clashes with various opposition groups.  A government spokesperson said, "Once more in Chile we can happily affirm that there is equality before the law and that the courts of justice are functioning impeccably."Pinochet is also in other legal trouble.  In November he was indicted for tax fraud and other crimes related to some $27 million in foreign bank accounts, according to Reuters.  And also on Monday he was ruled fit to stand trial for the disappearances in Operation Colombo.  This comes as a change of court rulings, previously cases have been dismissed because of medical reasons.Jeffrey Alexander Sterling, an ex-officer of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), was taken into custody Thursday by federal agents in St. Louis, Missouri. He was indicted on six separate counts of unauthorized disclosure of national defense information, as well as four additional charges: mail fraud, unlawfully keeping national defense information, obstruction of justice, and unauthorized conveyance of government property. Sterling, aged 43, had been employed by the CIA from May 1993 until he was fired in January 2002. During his arraignment, a judge declared that he would be held until a Monday hearing because the government called him a danger to the community.Sterling, an African American lawyer who lives in O'Fallon, allegedly provided classified information to New York Times reporter James Risen, some of which was incorporated into Risen's 2006 State of War: The Secret History of the CIA and the Bush Administration. Risen, who wrote about the CIA's involvement in Iran's nuclear program, has not named any of his sources even after being subpeonaed twice; Risen was not explicitly named in Sterling's indictment, but his involvement in the alleged leak is strongly supported by its contents, and a US government official confirmed the connection to NBC News.The indictment stated that, for two years during his career with the CIA, Sterling had been involved in "a classified clandestine operational program designed to conduct intelligence activities related to the weapons capabilities of certain countries." An anonymous source close to the investigation said one of those countries was Iran. While managing CIA operations, Sterling also handled a "human asset," whose name he is also accused of releasing.From 2000, Sterling had been engaged in various disputes with the agency. According to a story authored by Risen for The New York Times in March 2002, Sterling's supervisor during the Iran program said, "You kind of stick out as a big black guy." The comment was made after Sterling made requests for new assignments concerning Iran, requests declined because his appearance could interfere with the cases. Sterling, sued the CIA  for racial discrimination shortly after being fired, but was unable to come to a settlement in February 2003, and allegedly began leaking the classified information soon after that. The indictment claimed the motive behind the leak was retaliation for the unsuccessful lawsuit.Edward B. MacMahon Jr., a Virginia attorney for Sterling, said, "He has always maintained his innocence throughout the course of this entire investigation. We'll seek to prove that in court." MacMahon also said trial will be held at a U.S. District Court in Alexandria, as the case began in that state. Every charge against Sterling comes with the possibility of 10–20 years of jail time.US Assistant Attorney General Lanny Breuer made a statement, saying that "Sterling placed at risk our national security and the life of an individual working on a classified mission." A spokesperson for the CIA said, "Separate and apart from any specific instance, including this matter involving a former agency officer who left the CIA years ago, we take very seriously the unauthorized disclosure of classified information." The New York Times did not comment on the matter.The Obama administration has already taken action in several similar leaks involving government officers. The administration has also initiated an investigation into Julian Assange, founder of WikiLeaks, after the site's release of thousands of classified documents.Rafael Garcia, the former director of the Information and Technology Department of Security Administrative Department (Spanish acronym DAS) , the Colombian intelligence agency, from prison stated that there was a plan to assassinate Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez.The information was revealed by Garcia in an interview with Semana magazine in which he accused former DAS Director, Jorge Noguera, of providing the paramilitary death squads with information and lists about union leaders, professors, and left-wing leaders who then after  were found dead. He accused Noguera of working with paramilitary chief Jorge 40 in a conspiracy to kill Chavez and other Venezuelan officials.He denounces also that a system installed on a border post between the Colombian department of Guajira, and the Venezuelan State of Zulia for migration control was in reality an espionage system aimed at Venezuela.Garcia said that Noguera had plotted a fraud to obtain 300,000 votes for the 2002 election campaign in favor of Alvaro Uribe.According to Cambio and Semana magazines, Noguera was appointed consul in Milan after an scandal broke in which he was organizing a coup d’etat against Chavez in 2005.Rafael Calderon, the former president of Costa Rica, was sentenced to five years in prison after he was convicted of corruption while in office.Calderon, who served as head of state from 1990 to 1994, is the first ex-president to be tried for corruption. He had been arrested in October 2004, charged with taking an illegal commission after the government bought medical equipment from Finland. Calderon denied the charges.The former president was convicted on Monday. The head of the social security programme under Calderon, Eliseo Vargas, was sentenced to five years in jail as well. Prosecutors had originally wanted a 24-year jail term for Calderon.The judge hearing Calderon's case, Alejandro Lopez McAdam, refused requests by the prosecution to send Calderon to jail immediately, pending the outcome of an expected appeal.Michael Scanlon, the former partner of the influential lobbyist Jack Abramoff, pled guilty to conspiracy to bribe congressmen and other public staffers. He agreed to pay back US$19 million to a defrauded Indian tribe and entered into a plea agreement. Scanlon is an ex-aide and press secretary to former House Majority Leader Tom DeLay, who was indicted in October on conspiracy and money laundering charges relating to his dealings with Abramoff. The members of Congress involved in the corruption charges have not yet been named by the prosecutors, but Representative Bob Ney of Ohio has acknowledged that he is "Representative No. 1" named in the court papers. The prosecution alleges that Representative No. 1 accepted gifts, including a golf trip to a luxury resort in Scotland, and regular meals in an upscale D.C. restaurant "in exchange for a series of official acts and influence."Ney is said to be cooperating with the investigation. According to Ney's spokesperson, Brian Walsh, Congressman Ney was a merely victim of Scanlon's illegal activities.The BBC claims that they have uncovered allegations of abuse and neglect at the detention facility at Bagram Air Base, a United States base in Afghanistan.According to the BBC, they interviewed 27 men over a period of two months.  Apparently, only two said they had been treated well, with others claiming they were ill-treated, by use of stress positions, removing their clothes in front of female soldiers or other situations.  Four detainees claimed they were threatened with death at gunpoint.One inmate, known as Dr Kharden, was quoted as saying "They did things that you would not do against animals let alone to humans.  They poured cold water on you in winter and hot water in summer. They used dogs against us. They put a pistol or a gun to your head and threatened you with death.  They put some kind of medicine in the juice or water to make you sleepless and then they would interrogate you."The findings were presented to the Pentagon by the BBC, who said "US defense department has a policy of treating detainees humanely.  There have been well-documented instances where that policy was not followed, and service members have been held accountable for their actions in those cases."Bagram has come under fire before, because it is out of the jurisdiction of many laws banning torture and inhumane treatment and prisoners have no access to lawyers or to a justice system.Byron Moreno, a former Ecuadorian football referee who officiated at the 2002 FIFA World Cup, has been arrested for suspected drug smuggling.  Moreno was arrested at John F. Kennedy International airport after he arrived on a flight from Ecuador.During a routine check, security found 10 clear bags containing nearly 10 pounds of heroin. The drugs had been strapped to his body and concealed in his underwear. In a complaint filed in a Brooklyn federal court it said that during the inspection Moreno "became visibly nervous." It also said "A customs agent felt hard objects on the defendant's stomach, back and both of his legs. A strip search revealed that the lumps were 10 clear plastic bags containing more than 10 pounds of heroin".A judge jailed Moreno without bail on charges of drug smuggling. Moreno is most well remembered after he refereed the World Cup second round match between Italy and host's South Korea. Moreno had disallowed a valid Italian goal and sent off Italian striker Francesco Totti for apparent diving. He also failed to call any attention to any of the South Korean's foul play. Moreno resigned from refereeing in 2003.The former French president Jacques Chirac has been found guilty of corruption and sentenced to a two year suspended prison sentence after a long-running criminal trial concluded this week.The events which led to the trial predate Chirac's time as president but center around Chirac's prior role as mayor of Paris from 1977 to 1995. The court agreed with prosecutors who alleged that Chirac created fake government jobs in order to funnel an estimated €1 million of public money to his political allies in the Rally for the Republic organization.Benoît Hamon from the Socialist Party said he was glad that "justice has been done" and said it was "a good sign for French democracy that an independent judiciary could pronounce such a verdict on a former president of the republic".A French magistrate has ordered former President Jacques Chirac to stand trial on embezzlement charges dating back to the 1990s, when he was mayor of Paris. The order is unprecedented, and follows several other trials targeting former high-level politicians.Chirac did not respond directly to news he has been ordered to stand trial, but a statement from his office said he was serene and determined to clear himself.The former president is charged with embezzlement and breach of trust relating to allegations that 35 people were given fake jobs at Paris city hall between 1994 and 1995, when he was mayor. A veteran politician, 76-year-old Chirac served as both Paris mayor and prime minister of France, before becoming president in 1995. He left office in 2007.Although he has been dogged by several scandals, he has so far avoided prosecution. Reactions to the news were swift, with some opposition politicians praising the justice system for having done its work. But a number of Chirac supporters sharply criticized the move, including one former advisor, Jean-Francois Probst.In an interview on French radio, Probst suggested the judge's order was part of a larger attack on the conservative circle surrounding Chirac. Two of Chirac's former prime ministers, Alain Juppe and Dominique de Villepin, have both stood trial on separate charges, while ex-interior minister Charles Pasqua was sentenced to prison in a third trial that ended this week.International relations professor Steven Ekovich, of the American University of Paris, however, expressed doubts as to whether Chirac will ever face trial. "It's a little surprising, but I doubt it's going to go very far, mostly because of his age," he said. "Maybe mostly because of his age. And I can't imagine that President [Nicolas] Sarkozy will let it go very far. I think this is just part of the justice system following procedures."While Chirac left the presidency with low approval ratings, his popularity has since soared. In a poll earlier this year, he was rated France's most popular politician.Jürgen Chrobog, former Secretary of State in the German Foreign Office, was abducted today in eastern Yemen, along with his wife, their three children, and three locals.The family was travelling as part of a large group in the country when their vehicle went missing around 460 km east of the capital Sanaá. According the Yemeni interior ministry they were abducted by a tribal group.Reuters named the captors as members of the Al-Abdullah tribe who told the news agency by phone that the life of the family is not in danger and that they are their "guests". They are reportedly demanding that the Yemeni government release member of their tribe from prison.A spokesperson for the German Foreign Office said it is unknown whether Chrobog was singled out or if it was just a coincidence that he and his family were taken.Chrobog had been the German ambassador to the United States from 1994 till 2001 when he transferred to the Foreign Office, where he himself negotiated the release of Germans held abroad.This incident is the fourth time this year that foreigners were abducted in the country to blackmail the Yemeni government.Rod Blagojevich, the former governor of the US state of Illinois, was indicted on Thursday on charges of corruption for allegedly planning to "sell" Barack Obama's Senate seat when the latter vacated it to become President.Five of his advisers, including Blagojevich's brother Robert, were also indicted. The others are former fundraiser, Christopher Kelly, former chief of staff John Harris, former aide Lon Monk, and the lobbyist William Cellini.A jury indicted Blagojevich on sixteen felony counts, among them wire fraud, extortion conspiracy, and racketeering conspiracy. The indictment states that if convicted, the ex-governor could face over three hundred years in prison, as well as US$4 million worth of fines, including restitution.The governor insists that he did nothing illegal, and claims that he was the victim of a politically motivated witch hunt. He pledged to fight his charges in court."I'm saddened and hurt but I am not surprised by the indictment. I am innocent," read a statement released by Blagojevich. "I now will fight in the courts to clear my name. I would ask the good people of Illinois to wait for the trial and afford me the presumption of innocence that they would give to all their friends and neighbors."Blagojevich, a governor serving his second term, was arrested on December 9 of last year on charges of wire fraud and conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud. Shortly thereafter, the Illinois House impeached him before the Senate, which nearly unanimously convicted him and expelled him from office.Alfonso Portillo, the former president of Guatemala, was arrested yesterday, after the US requested his extradition on charges of money laundering.Officials made the arrest at a beach in northeastern Guatemala, said attorney-general Amilcar Velasquez, noting that Portillo had been searched for for several days before the arrest.  He was then jailed by court order, and US officials have been given forty days to give evidence to back up the requested extradition.The day preceding the arrest, a New York court indicted the former president on charges of embezzling millions of dollars worth of public funds in 2000-2004, when he was in office. Prosecutors claim he also took US$1.5 million in donations from "Libraries for Peace", a Taiwanese government programme, and put them into accounts controlled by friends. He also faces charges from the Guatemalan government on corruption.Portillo has denied the charges.After being arrested, Portillo said he had been the victim of a political conspiracy before assuming the presidency, and he was afraid his life was in danger. "When I am in court, I'll mention all the names of the people behind the conspiracy [...] everything they've done, where they met," he said in a telephone interview. With all they've done to me in Guatemala, anything can happen," he said in a telephone interview with the Guatemalan Radio Sonora."We are going to prove that this is a political trial. We have proof," commented Telesforo Guerra, Portillo's lawyer, to Radio Sonora, as quoted by the Associated Press.After Portillo's presidential term ended in 2004, he moved to Mexico, but was extradited back to Guatemala on corruption accusations. When the US made its extradition request, the former president was free on bail.Former Haitian Prime Minister Yvon Neptune has been weakened by a hunger strike and is believed to be in critical condition. He has refused medical care unless all charges against him have been dropped.The secretary of the Dominican Armed Forces, Gen. Sigfrido Pared Perez, is reported by the Associated Press as saying Mr. Neptune would be flown to the Dominican Republic on Monday, and immediately to a hospital in Santo Domingo, the capital, but this plan was rejected by Mr. Neptune.The former Prime Minister has been held for 10 months under house arrest without being charged with any crime. Lawyer Mario Joseph claims Haitian law requires that an accused be brought before a judge within 48 hours of arrest.The Haitian interim government of Prime Minister Gerard Latortue accuse Mr. Neptune of coordinating the killing of Aristide supporters in St. Marc during the rebellion.US Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens has given federal prosecutors until next Friday to respond to the request of former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich and his brother Robert to delay their corruption trial. The trial is set to begin on June 3, and many of the charges they face are based on a federal honest-services law. The Blagojevich brothers challenge the constitutionality of this law and believe the trial should be delayed until the high court is expected to decide the issue next month. The request had already been denied by District Judge James Zagel and the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. Stevens, who handles appeals from the Seventh Circuit, had three options: reject the request for a delay of trial, grant it, or allow the federal government to respond. He chose the third. The decision brings hope to the Blagojevich defense team. "We believe that means he sees this as not frivolous, and he's going to decide it on the merits," said Michael Ettinger, Robert's attorney. "We're somewhat cautiously hopeful he'll do the right thing."Prosecutors added new charges, including bribery, against the brothers in case the Supreme Court finds the honest-services law unconstitutional. They believe the June 3 start date should not be held back.Despite promises he would testify in his own corruption trial, lawyers for former Illinois Governor Rod Blagojevich rested their case yesterday morning. His defense did not call a single witness, and apparently feels the prosecution has not proven their case. Closing arguments are scheduled for Monday.Speculation that Blagojevich would not testify began on Tuesday, when U.S. District Judge James Zagel adjourned 90 minutes early after a private meeting with the lawyers involved. Robert Blagojevich, the former governor's brother and co-defendant in the case, had already testified on his own behalf. Blagojevich's defense team apparently considered resting their case on Tuesday, but Zagel gave them an extra day to consider their decision more carefully. When Zagel directly asked the former governor about his decision, he replied that he understood what he was doing. "It is my decision, under the advice of my attorneys. I make the decision fully and voluntarily," he said.Blagojevich is charged with trying to sell the U.S. Senate seat that had been vacated by Barack Obama when he won the 2008 presidential election, among other crimes. Robert Blagojevich  testified that his brother was trying to manipulate the political situation to his advantage, but emphasized that he engaged in nothing illegal. According to some sources, Blagojevich was interested in leading the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.Former Iranian vice-president Mohammed Ali Abtahi has been released on bail pending appeal after being sentenced to six years in prison on Saturday for his part in the protests following the presidential elections in June."Abtahi was sentenced to six years in prison for acting against national security and propaganda activity," an anonymous court official told the INSA news agency. According to the agency, he was released on bail set at seven billion rials (US$700 thousand (€472 thousand)); under Iranian law, all convictions of a minimum of three months are subject to appeal and bail may be granted for the first twenty days to allow anyone sentenced to lodge one. "Abtahi was released this afternoon after he paid the bail amount," Tehran prosecutor Abbas Jafari Doulatabadi told IRNA.Abtahi, who was as a minister and vice-president under President Mohammad Khatami from 1997 to 2005, is amongst thousands who were arrested following protests; two hundred still behind bars of which around eighty have been sentenced to jail and a further five to death. He has remained in custody ever since his arrest. He was convicted of various charges, including "gathering and plotting against the country's security, propaganda against the regime, insulting the president and participating in an illegal demonstration." He also faces further charges of "keeping classified documents."Opposition critics have called the prosecutions "laughable show trials" and spoken of "forced confessions". They have called for the unconditional release of prisoners. On Friday, a United Nations committee passed a vote to approve a non-binding resolution which condemns Iran for its reaction to the protests following the election, criticising Iran's record on human rights, highlighting torture and executions. The committee has also called on the Iranian government to stop persecuting its political opponents and release political prisoners.Moshe Katsav, President of Israel from 2000 to 2007, is to start a seven-year prison sentence for rape today at Maasiyahu Prison in Ramla. Katsav was convicted of raping an employee twice in 1998, while he was tourism minister, and then later sexually abusing two other women as president.Katsav claims he is innocent, telling the New York Times: “I’m about to pay the price for something I haven’t done”.Katsav is expected to arrive at the prison at 10am Israeli local time (UTC+3) and will be placed in a wing for religiously observant prisoners. The prison have stated they do not believe him to be a suicide risk, and have also stated that they have no concerns with Katsav either potentially leaking state secrets or meeting prisoners he did not pardon while president.Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was yesterday found guilty of tax fraud and sentenced to four years in prison, which was reduced to one year because of a law passed by Mr Berlusconi which aimed to reduce overcrowding of prisons.The fraud relates to the purchase of television film rights by a company owned by Mr Berlusconi, Mediaset, which the company then re-sold at exaggerated prices. Although sentenced to one year in prison, Mr Berlusconi, 76, might not serve the one-year sentence because there will be two opportunities to appeal the verdict, which may take many years and no prison time is served until after the verdict is confirmed. Mr Berlusconi is also banned for three years from any political office.The Secretary of Mr Berlusconi's centre-right People of Freedom party, Angelino Alfano, said the ruling confirmed there was "judicial persecution" against the former prime minister; while according to Antonio Di Pietro, one of Berlusconi's political rivals, "the truth has been exposed".Mr Berlusconi resigned in November from his position as Prime Minister.  He has in the past faced several allegations against him, including embezzlement, fraud, and bribery. A separate trial is currently underway in Milan over allegations he paid for sex with an under-age prostitute, Karima el Mahroug.In the United Kingdom, a former senior judge, Gerald Butler QC, has called for Cherie Blair to be dismissed from her post as a part-time judge, after accusing her of bringing the legal profession into disrepute by publishing her memoirs, which contain many indiscretions.Blair, who is a recorder (a barrister who sits occasionally as a judge), has just published her memoirs, Speaking for Myself.   Butler, who was the senior judge at Southwark Crown Court in Central London for 13 years said, "I don't think she should continue to sit as a recorder. If she wants to tread this path of making money by outrageous comments that is up to her, but I don't think this is a job for a judge.  It shows a complete lack of any kind of decency.  It's the kind of conduct which demeans the legal profession.  It is disgraceful, but nothing less than I would expect from her."A member of the Bar Council, John Cooper, said: "One of the important factors in being a judge is being able to exercise judgment, and part of that judgment is being trusted with confidential material.  One has to be very careful, in my view, in what one exposes to the public gaze.  I know of no High Court judge who has written their memoirs before they have retired."However, Cherie Blair replied on BBC Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour that she wouldn’t quit, saying that law was "really important to my life".The former managing director of the Gambian newspaper, The Daily Observer, Dr. Saja Taal, testified today in Banjul Magistrates’ Court as part of the trial of Mam Sait Ceesay, who was formerly the State House Press Officer in Gambia.Taal said in court that he knew Mam Sait Ceesay. “I used to work at the Daily Observer as Managing Director up to November 2007. I know the accused," he said. He continued by describing his former job at the observer.  "My Job entailed the management of the paper, both financial management, personnel management and also the content. The Managing Director is responsible for the publication of all stories," he said.Ceesay has been charged with "false publication". He has pleaded not guilty to this charge.A man who was formerly a mayor of a village in Lancashire, England has been jailed for two years after being found guilty after admitting four charges of burglary. 59-year-old Ian Stafford, a bachelor, was formerly the mayor of the village of Preesall, however he had to resign from his position in 2009 after being arrested for burglary. His crimes would involve going into houses of people who had entrusted house keys to him as he was employed by them as a handyman or a gardener. He then searched through drawers for underwear before carrying out sex acts and stealing or replacing the underwear, and then leaving the properties. He also stole some garments. The burglaries took place in the villages of Stalmine and Poulton-le-Fylde between the dates of January 1 and June 26 in 2009.One person became suspicious and installed a hidden camera inside her bedroom. As a result, a 14 minute DVD was recorded which shows the former mayor walking naked from the waist downwards. The DVD was passed on to the police. Police officers later raided Stafford's residence and found the underwear, which had been marked with the names of the owners. The underwear is said to have been worth up to £900 (US$1407).The trial was held in Preston Crown Court. There the Court heard of how the victims had been "embarrassed, disgusted and shocked" by the "sexual kicks" which the man had been getting. During a previous interview with police, Ian Stafford commented at how he felt "deeply ashamed at the whole scenario because I have hurt people who have been excellent friends - I could not wish for better. I wish I had said something to someone earlier. I am not proud of any of this, I am sickened. I wish I could turn the clock back." Inside the court on Thursday, Judge Heather Lloyd said to Stafford: "Your private desires or fantasies which should only be your concern became public when you decided to do what you did in the homes of those who trusted you. To masturbate into a woman's underwear and place it back in the draw [sic], repeatedly, as seen in the DVD, as you have done in other homes is bluntly revolting and the impact on your victims is high." She sentenced Ian Stafford to two years in prison, with the recommendation that he takes therapy, a decision which was supported by Stafford's fourth victim.After the court trial had concluded, Detective Constable Steve Montgomery, who comes from Lancashire Police, stated: "This has been a distressing ordeal for the victims involved, all of whom had let Mr Stafford into their homes, trusting him to carry out maintenance. They certainly did not expect him to search for, and steal, their possessions. There has been a breach of their trust in a very intimate nature. The victims are relieved that the court process is now over."File:At the Landfill.jpgFormer New York City Police Commissioner Bernard Kerik was sentenced to four years in prison and three years of supervised release on Thursday after pleading guilty to eight felony charges. Among these were tax fraud and lying to Bush administration officials during his unsuccessful nomination for US Secretary of Homeland Security in 2004.This sentence is contrary to a plea agreement made in November between Kerik's legal counsel and the prosecution.  Per this accord, federal attorneys recommended a sentence of no longer than 33 months in prison, opposed to the 48 months that US District Judge Stephen Robinson (who was not bound to this agreement) chose to hand down instead. "I think it's fair to say that with great power comes great responsibility and great consequences," Judge Robinson said upon sentencing. "I think the damage caused by Mr. Kerik is in some ways immeasurable.""Today's sentencing of Bernard Kerik is one of the most powerful recent reminders that no one in this country is above the law," added US Attorney Preet Bharara.Kerik, who was accompanied by his wife and three children, briefly addressed the court: "I make no excuses. I take full responsibility for the grave mistakes I've made. Believe me when I say I have learned from this and I have become and will continue to become a better person.""I know I must be punished," he went on to say. "I only ask that you allow me to return to my wife and two little girls as soon as possible."According to the New York City Department of Corrections, Kerik is slated to begin serving his sentence on May 17. Although the prosecution made clear their desire for Kerik to be imprisoned immediately, Judge Robinson allowed him to surrender himself later in the day so that he would have sufficient time to "get his affairs in order." Kerik has been awaiting sentencing under house arrest at his home in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey since November when said plea agreement was reached. Kerik, a military veteran and undercover detective, was a trusted advisor to former US Attorney and Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, for whom he worked for as a bodyguard and a driver. Kerik later served as both corrections and police commissioner.  His distinguished actions following the 2001 September 11th Attacks transformed him into a respected national figure.  This earned him the praise of then-president George W. Bush, who in turn nominated him for the lead Homeland Security post.  It was during the vetting process that Kerik's suspected ties to organized crime came out.  This marked the beginning of his long fall from grace. Outside the courthouse, Kerik gave a statement to the media and general public before being driven home: "I'd like to apologize to the American people for the mistakes I have made and for which I have just accepted responsibility. As history is written, I can only hope that I will be judged for the 30 years of service I have given to this country and the City of New York. It has not and will not diminish my love for this country."Kerik's lawyer, when asked by The New York Times if they planned to appeal this sentence, simply replied, "No comment."Steve McNair, former National Football League (NFL) quarterback was found shot to death in an apartment in Nashville, Tennessee, in the United States, around 1:00 PM on July 4, 2009. Sahel Kazemi, a 20-year-old woman, was also found dead with a gunshot wound in the same apartment. A gun, presumably the murder weapon, was found next to Ms. Kazemi's body. The Tennessean newspaper is calling the death "an apparent murder-suicide."McNair played 13 seasons in the NFL, 11 with the Houston Oilers/Tennessee Titans franchise, and two with the Baltimore Ravens.  Titan's owner "Bud" Adams said of McNair: "We are saddened and shocked to hear the news of Steve McNair's passing today. He was one of the finest players to play for our organization and one of the most beloved players by our fans."Kazemi was an employee of the Dave & Buster's restaurant in Opry Mills, Tennessee, and had been dating McNair for several months, according to The Tennessean.  McNair was still married to another woman at the time of his death.  Two days prior to their deaths, Kazemi had been arrested for driving under the influence in a black 2007 Cadillac Escalade which had been a gift to her from McNair.  He was in the car at the time of the arrest; he was not charged with any crime and later bailed her out of jail.The bodies were discovered around 1:00 PM on July 4, 2009 by Wayne Neely, a friend of McNair.  Another friend, Robert Gaddy, called police to report the deaths at 1:35 PM.  Nashville police are still investigating the deaths, and have not ruled out any scenarios.  However, they also state that they are not actively pursuing any suspects at this time.  They are awaiting an autopsy report on the two deceased before forming any conclusions about the situation.James Tobin, a Republican who worked as a regional political director for the RNC-affiliated National Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee, has been charged with conspiracy to deny New Hampshire Democrats the right to vote among three other conspiracy charges.  Prosecuters say Tobin conspired with state GOP official Charles Mcgee and consultant Allen Raymond in Virginia, both of whom are cooperating with prosecutors, to have the consultant's telephone firm make repeated hang-up calls to Democratic and labor union get-out-the-vote phone banks, effectively jamming their phone lines. The New Hampshire Republican State Committee paid $15,600 to the firm. Callers requesting transportation to polling places were thus unable to receive any, allege prosecutors.Republican John Sunonu won a close US Senate race in New Hampshire following the phone-jammings which occurred in November 2002.The RNC has been paying Tobin's legal fees, which have so far amounted to $722,382. The RNC did not specify that the payments were for Tobin's defense in reports with the FEC, but has since confirmed that they were. RNC Chairperson Ken Mehlman said in a May 18, 2005 statement that he "strongly support[ed]" a "zero-tolerance policy" on election fraud.[1] Some have therefore criticized the GOP for making the payments to the powerful Williams and Connolly law firm.  But on August 10, 2005, RNC spokesperson Tracey Schmitt said their support of Tobin through payment of his legal fees is "based on his assurance and our belief that Jim has not engaged in any wrongdoing."[2]Tobin's involvement is said to have been finding the firm to make the calls. Raymond told prosecutors Tobin explained the scheme to him and asked him to implement it, and his lawyers said that he had believed Tobin was acting under RNC sanction in his then capacity as policial director for New England. Tobin went on to work for the president's re-election campaign.Paul Tworney, a volunteer lawyer for New Hampshire Democrats said the RNC's actions suggested more people may be involved. "It originally appeared to us that there were just certain rogue elements of the Republican Party who were willing to do anything to win control of the U.S. Senate, including depriving Americans of their ability to vote. But now that the RNC actually is bankrolling Mr. Tobin's defense, coupled with the fact that it has refused some discovery in the civil case, really raises the questions of who are they protecting, how high does this go and who was in on this," said Twoney.[3]The New Hampshire Democratic Party Chairperson Kathy Sullivan demanded that the state Republican Chairperson Warren Henderson resign.COLUMBUS, OHIO — Nathan Gale, 25, jumped onstage during a concert with the band Damageplan and started shooting a handgun at band members, and then into the crowd. He killed four people, including former Pantera guitarist Dimebag Darrell, real name Darrell Abbott, who seems to have been the main target. Two others were wounded. The gunman was killed by a police officer responding to the call.Damageplan was started by the brothers Vinnie Paul and Dimebag Darrell when their former band Pantera split up.Abbot's death is noted worldwide by guitarists, musicians, and lovers of metal.ÑEMBY, Paraguay —Paraguayan authorities have confirmed the discovery of the body of Cecilia CubasGusinky, aged 31, daughter of the former Paraguayan President Raul Cubas. Shewas kidnapped on September 21, 2004 in the outskirts of Asuncion.The body was found inside a tunnel under a house which is located inÑemby, 29 km from Asuncion. Members of theleftist party Patria Libre (Free Country) were believed to live there.This kidnapping shocked Paraguayan public opinion because Cecilia was thedaughter of a former President and because two days ago it was discovered thatthe kidnappers would have been advised by the ColombianCommunist insurgent armed group FARC.The authorities claim the kidnappers were led by the Patria Libre member Osmar Martínez. He was exchanging emails with Trotador505who according to Colombian police is Rodrigo Granda, FARC chancellor. Martínez was arrested in January in Caaguazú, 200 km from Asunción."We don't deny our fraternal relationship with this brotherlike organization",Martínez said in relation to FARC.He also told how he had photographs of himself with Fidel Castro, BrazilianPresident Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, politicians of the People's Republic of China, Libya and Iraq and added: "I am proud of relating to the great men of universal history".People are speculating on the possible participation in the crime by members of the Paraguayan police.The advanced state of decomposure indicates Ms Gusinsky had beendead for more than a month.A former aide to French senator Charles Pasqua, whose name was cited by a recent report by a United States Senate investigation panel, has admitted that the Iraqi government had intended to reward Mr Pasqua with a grant of oil through the oil for food program.The aide, Bernard Guillet, was arrested in April 2005 and was put under formal criminal investigation on April 28 by French judge Philippe Courroye, under the charges of egregious influence peddling and of being an accessory to an abuse of corporate belongings. He is suspected of having received vouchers for buying Iraqi oil from the regime of Saddam Hussein, which he then allegedly sold to oil companies, to an amount of 5 million barrels. Mr Pasqua, according to some sources, would have been the beneficiary of 10.8 million barrels. According to a CIA report, the profit would have been between 0.15€ and 0.85€ per barrel.Former Pennsylvania State Senator Vincent J. Fumo was found guilty of 137 counts of conspiracy, fraud, obstruction of justice and tax violations on Monday.Fumo, a Democrat who previously represented South Philadelphia, was found guilty of defrauding the Senate, a nonprofit organization and a museum out of more than US$3.5 million.Fumo also ordered state employees to do political tasks and personal errands, and destroyed e-mail evidence, according to the convictions handed down by a U.S. District Court jury Monday.More than 100 witnesses participated in the five-month trial, which featured about 1,500 exhibits. It took the jury 13 minutes to read all the guilty counts for Fumo, who served on the Pennsylvania State Senate for more than 30 years.“Hard work has never, never balanced such abuses," U.S. Attorney Laurie Magid told The Bulletin. "It was a resounding verdict and an emphatic rejection of the kind of defenses that were raised."Prosecutors plan to seek a prison sentence of at least 10 years. Dennis Cogan, the lead defense attorney for Fumo, said he might ask for a new trial, but did not specify the possible grounds for such a request. A federal judge set bail for Fumo at $2 million and denied a motion by prosecutors to revoke Fumo's bail, despite a prosecutor's claim that Fumo had a "strong incentive to flee". Ruth Arnao, a staffer for Fumo, was also found guilty of 45 counts of similar charges and received $500,000 bail.Before the verdict was read, Fumo's defense attorneys accused a juror of putting trial posts on his Facebook and Twitter accounts, which led to speculation that a mistrial could be declared. Judge Ronald L. Buckwalter denied the request to dismiss the juror after speaking with the juror for about an hour on March 16.Among the charges were that Fumo helped defraud Citizens Alliance for Better Neighborhoods, a community group he helped found, by using $1.4 million of its money to buy goods, conduct polls and file a lawsuit against a Republican foe.Prosecutors also said Fumo arranged for heated sidewalks to be installed at his personal mansion, ordered political operatives to spy on his ex-girlfriend, and took overnight cruises on luxury yachts owned by Independence Seaport Museum in Philadelphia, where Fumo sat on the board.News of Fumo's conviction quickly swept through the Pennsylvania State Capitol, where longtime Democratic colleagues said they were saddened by the verdict, but not surprising due to the large amount of evidence that surfaced during the trial.Former Philippine President Joseph "Erap" Ejercito Estrada was found guilty by the Sandiganbayan (anti-graft court) for plunder but found him not guilty on a count of perjury.The Philippines’ 13th President was arrested in April 2001 after being ousted in a peaceful revolution in January of the same year for allegedly amassing US$ 85 million (PhP 46=US$) from kickbacks and for failure to declare his true assets and liabilities as a requisite for any public elected or appointed official.After almost six years of trial, Estrada faces a lifetime of imprisonment or at least 40 years in prison.The former president's son, Senator Jose "Jinggoy" Estrada and personal lawyer Edward S. Serapio who also faced similar charges of plunder and perjury were proclaimed not guilty.A special division of the anti-graft court was created to specifically hear the case of Estrada and found beyond reasonable doubt that the former President was guilty of plunder.The court's decision stated that Estrada received money from illegal gambling and collected commissions from the sale of publicly listed Belle Corp. shares. The court stated that it found not enough evidence to tie Estrada to charges of misappropriating tobacco excise taxes and amassing wealth deposited in the so-called "Jose Velarde" account. The 262-page decision stated that, "The predicate acts alleged [in the two cases] were linked by the fact that they were plainly geared towards a common goal which was the accumulation of ill-gotten wealth ... and that they shared a pattern or a common method of commission which was the abuse or misuse of the high authority or power of the presidency." As a result of the court's decision, the state will forfeit Mr. Estrada’s accounts that includes P545.29 million (US$11.5 million) credited to the Erap Muslim Youth Foundation and the P189-million (US$ 4.10 million) Velarde account, including the so-called Boracay Mansion in New Manila, Quezon City.Estrada, who was also a popular movie actor said in an interview after the verdict that the three person panel of judges of the anti-graft court were "pressured" to ensure the legitimacy of the incumbent administration of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo.Mrs. Arroyo assumed the office of the President on January 20, 2001 when a peaceful uprising forced Mr. Estrada to step down from office.The 70-year-old former President declared this Sunday that his lawyers will appeal should the court find him guilty and he is prepared to face incarceration. Estrada added that he will not ask for any form of pardon from incumbent President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo who assumed office when Estrada was ousted.Mr. Estrada proclaimed before members of media after the verdict was read saying, "I submitted myself to the rule of law when I allowed the impeachment proceedings against me to take its course. I did not resort to influence, the trial nor to any acts that may constitute obstruction of justice, whitewash or cover-ups." The former president re-emphasized his position that he will never ask for any form of pardon from Mrs. Arroyo's administration and he was prepared to serve his sentence at the National Penitentiary among the common people with no special privileges.Estrada, has been on detention by virtue of a "house arrest" at his rest house at Tanay in Rizal Province, east of the capital Manila. "I am at peace with myself notwithstanding the guilty verdict because you, my beloved countrymen, have overwhelmingly acquitted me," Estrada added.The Philippine government placed the entire military and police on its highest level of alert, more than a week ahead in preparation for the Estrada verdict. Traffic around the anti-graft court was re-routed and classes from among nearby schools were also suspended to pre-empt any possible security problems resulting from pro-Estrada supporters.On May 1, 2001, thousands of Estrada supporters amassed before Malacañan Palace to protest the incarceration of the former President and attempted to unseat Mrs. Arroyo to restore Estrada.The office of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo appealed before the public to "let the rule of law prevail."Mrs. Arroyo stated during a speech before a mix group of delegates at the Presidential palace calling for "peace and reconciliation" after the verdict has been rendered.The president has also called for an end on "political drama," to allow the country's economy progress to move forward with no fear from political instability.The Ministry of Justice in Switzerland said Adamov will be extradited to the US. The warrant allowing this states that he is charged with diverting money from the U.S. Department of Energy to several companies he controls.Adamov's lead lawyer said he will fight the extradition warrant and called the accusations "baseless". Adamov, who has on a number of occasions been investigated for his financial dealing by the U.S. and Russia alike, said he was being punished for his help in building a nuclear plant in Iran.The U.S. now has 60 days to present a formal request, after which a Swiss court will make a ruling. Swiss officials said it is common for this process to take several months.Adamov's U.S. lawyer, Larry Breur, said Adamov admitted to depositing the money into a personal account, but then he used that account to dispense the money to Russian agencies and nuclear scientists. Breur said the process was common in Russia to avoid hypertaxation.Yevgeny Adamov was a minister in Boris Yeltsin's government, but was removed from power by Vladimir Putin in an effort to remove corruption. Adamov was in Bern attempting to unblock bank accounts belonging to his daughter.A United Nations court today convicted a woman, a former minister in the Rwandan government, for her role in the 1994 genocide in the ethnic war between the Tutsi and the Hutu peoples. Pauline Nyiramasuhuko, 65, was found guilty of seven charges including publicly inciting genocide and rape, and conspiracy to commit genocide "as part of a widespread and systematic attack against a civilian population on political, ethnic and racial grounds," said the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR), a UN backed court in Arusha, Tanzania. Nyiramasuhuko, who was the Rwandan of Minister of Family and Women's Affairs in Juvénal Habyarimana's government in 1994 when about 800,000 mostly ethnic Tutsis were killed, was convicted and sentenced to life in prison today. Her son, Arsene Shalom Ntahobali, a militia leader charged with crimes against humanity, war crimes, and rape, was also convicted and sentenced to life. Four local officials were  found guilty on genocide charges and given prison sentences ranging from 25 years to life.According to prosecutor Holo Makwaia, Nyiramasuhuko intended to "destroy in whole or in part the Tutsi ethnic group in Butare". Following the genocide, she fled Rwanda and was arrested in Nairobi, Kenya, in 1997.Presiding Judge William Sekule read the judgment: "Many were physically assaulted, raped and taken away to various places in Butare, where they were killed. During the course of these repeated attacks on vulnerable civilians, both Nyiramasuhuko and Ntahobali ordered killings. They also ordered rapes. Ntahobali further committed rapes and Nyiramasuhuko aided and abetted rapes."Nyiramasuhuko is the first woman convicted of genocide by the ICTR, which was established in 1994 after approximately 800,000 Tutsis and politically moderate Hutus were massacred during the genocide.Byrraju Ramalinga Raju, founder and chairman of Satyam Computer Services, and his brother, B. Rama Raju, the company's managing director, were arrested late Friday by Andhra Pradesh police. The brothers were placed under judicial custody in a Hyderabad, India jail and will remain there until January 23. Facing charges of criminal breach of trust (Section 406 of IPC), criminal conspiracy (Section 120-B), cheating (Section 420), falsification of records and forgery (Section 468), and fraudulent cancellation of securities (Section 477-a), they face up to ten years imprisonment if convicted.After 18 hours of interrogation by the Crime Investigation Department (CID) at the state police headquarters, the Raju brothers were sent to the Chanchalguda prison and slept Saturday night on the floor along with 26 other low-risk inmates.S. Bharat Kumar, the Rajus's lawyer, asked the magistrate to issue orders for health monitoring. "His blood pressure is fluctuating and he needs medical treatment," said Bharat Kumar. Mr. Raju appeared before the court Saturday while a team of doctors visited him after he had complained of chest pain.Raju has Hepatitis-C, and both brothers have high blood pressure, so health precautions are necessary while imprisoned. Prison rules mandate service of jail food thrice a day. The menu includes 650 gm of rice thrice a day with 250 gm of vegetable curry and 125 gm of 'daal' plus tea twice a day.Satyam's chief financial officer Vadlamani Srinivas, who was also arrested Saturday, had undergone preliminary investigation and appeared Sunday before a special court, according to A. Sivanarayana, Andhra Pradesh additional director general of police. Srinivas was remanded to judicial custody until January 23 by Mr. D. Ramakrishna, Sixth Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, and sent to the Chanchalguda jail with the Raju brothers after interrogation by CID's Crime Branch (the CB-CID). During his Saturday night arrest and probe by CB-CID, Srinivas made revelations which are contained in his confession letter as submitted to Network 18. "According to me fixed deposits are unreal and fictitious which were managed and was an understanding between the audit section management," Srinivas stated.The Hyderabad court on Monday postponed the bail hearings of the Raju brothers and Srinivas to January 16. To be defended by a battalion of 25 lawyers, the three accused will remain in Chanchalguda Central Jail until further court order. The Raju brothers were shifted Sunday to a mid-size Old Hospital Barrack cell shared with a bootlegger.The Florida newspaper St. Petersburg Times published a series of investigative articles on Scientology on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, including exclusive interviews with former high-ranking executives within the organization. Four former Scientology executives stated that they witnessed the Church of Scientology's leader David Miscavige physically strike staff members numerous times. The former executives speaking out include Mike Rinder, who served as head of the organization's legal and public relations division the Office of Special Affairs, Mark Rathbun, former Inspector General of the organization's Religious Technology Center, Tom De Vocht, former manager of the organization's operations in Clearwater, Florida, and Amy Scobee, a former Scientology staff member in California who assisted in construction of Scientology's Celebrity Centres. Rathbun supervised the Church of Scientology's response to the Lisa McPherson case, after she died under Scientology care in 1995.Rinder said the impact was more one of humiliation than physical pain: "The issue wasn't the physical pain of it (being assaulted by Miscavige). The issue was the humiliation and the domination. ... It's the fact that the domination you're getting — hit in the face, kicked — and you can't do anything about it." Rathbun asserted Miscavige would assault executives during conferences. "Regularly David Miscavige would in the middle of a conference physically assault, punch, slap or grab by the neck a number of executives," said Rathbun. De Vocht said that Miscavige would "lose it" if he did not hear a satisfactory answer from his executives: "If it wasn't the answer he wanted to hear, he'd lose it. If it was contrary to how he thought, he'd lose it. If he found it to be smart aleck, or it was a better answer than he had, he would lose it." Scobee was critical of Miscavige's actions while calling himself a "religious leader". "You cannot call yourself a religious leader as you beat people, as you confine people, as you rip apart families. If I was trying to destroy Scientology, I would leave David Miscavige right where he is because he's doing a fantastic job of it," she said.In its preparation for the investigation, The St. Petersburg Times staff met with attorneys and representatives for the Church of Scientology for 25 hours. According to the paper Miscavige was sought out by reporters for an interview from May 13, but they were informed he would not be available prior to July. Miscavige e-mailed the paper on Saturday, complaining that he was not interviewed. "I am at a loss to comprehend how the St. Petersburg Times can publish a story about me and the religion I lead without accepting the offer to speak with me," wrote Miscavige.Church of Scientology representatives denied the statements made by their former executives, and claimed the individuals left the organization after being demoted. They claimed the former executives were motivated by feelings of revenge and only speaking to the press for financial gain. Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis acknowledged violence occurred within the ranks of Scientology management, but claimed that it was Rathbun and not Miscavige who carried out the assaults. In comments to the Associated Press, Davis referred to the statements made by former executives about Miscavige as "absolutely, unquestionably false". Scientology representative Lyman Spurlock stated "What they want to do is extort money from the church. ... and right now the St. Pete Times is their extortion vehicle... you're just their lackeys. They're using you."The St. Petersburg Times reported Monday on the attention received by the investigative articles in other media. The Associated Press carried the story, and it was included in over 177 television and news websites including MSNBC, the Los Angeles Times, The Guardian, and the Chicago Sun-Times, as well as blogs and media sites for The Huffington Post, Gawker, L.A. Weekly, and The Village Voice. By Monday the first article in the series had received over 3,600 "diggs" at the social news website Digg and generated over 420 comments at the site. A post at the "On Deadline" blog of USA Today called the investigation "a fascinating three-part series". "Juicy stuff from a mainstream newspaper coming out and hitting Scientology hard," said biologist and University of Minnesota, Morris associate professor PZ Myers in a post to his blog Pharyngula. "I'm sure there are meetings going on in Clearwater right now where they're plotting revenge," wrote Myers.Former deputy president of South Africa, Jacob Zuma, has been charged with rape and has appeared in the Johannesburg Magistrate's court.  Zuma has been released on R20 000 bail.He has since announced that he has voluntarily decided to suspend his participation in the ANC leadership structure during the trial.Former Taiwanese President Chen Shui-bian has been detained on charges of money laundering, embezzling government funds, taking bribes and forging documents. Television coverage showed him shouting "political persecution" while being led away in handcuffs."The KMT and the Chinese Communist Party see me as their number one prisoner as I am the biggest stone blocking their way to reunification," Chen said according to reports. However, court proceedings were halted so that he could be taken to hospital, due to an injury sustained after he was detained. He was discharged when doctors found that his injuries were minor, and Chen returned to court the following morning.Lai Ching-teh, an opposition leader, said, "The former president told the judges that he was pushed from behind while being escorted out of the prosecutors' office, and demanded that he be sent to the National Taiwan University Hospital to examine his injuries.""This political manipulation is aimed at destroying the DPP and insulting a former leader by handcuffing him. We assure the public that the DPP will not be defeated," said Lee Chun-yee, a legislator from Chen's Democratic Progressive Party (DPP).Chen has publicly admitted that his wife wired tens of millions of dollars oversea, but denies any wrongdoing. He has also admitted to getting government money by submitting false receipts, though he claims that the purpose of this was only to fund "secret diplomatic missions" and not benefit himself.Chen is a lawyer by profession and served as the President of the Republic of China (Taiwan) from May 20, 2000 through May 20, 2008.Chen, his wife, son, daughter-in-law and brother-in-law have been named as defendants in a separate money laundering case.Taiwan's former President, Chen Shui-bian (陳水扁), has been conditionally released on bail, some ten hours after he was indicted for corruption. Speaking to media at the Taipei District Court, he said: "I want to thank my lawyers, members of the Democratic Progressive Party and my supporters who have given me huge encouragement. I am grateful to those who cared for, supported and looked after me so I could get through the hardest and loneliest 32 days of my life in prison." He earns the historical distinction of being the first ex-president of the Republic of China to be indicted for criminal offenses and could suffer life imprisonment if convicted.Along with 13 other family members and close associates, including his wheelchair-bound wife, son Chen Chih-Chung, and daughter-in-law Huang Jui-ching, Chen was indicted Friday on charges of embezzling government funds and laundering money or ill-gotten bribes. The panel of three judges ruled he should appear at future court hearings and must not leave the country nor change his address.Prosecutor Lin Che-hui accused Chen of  having "embezzled 104 million New Taiwan dollars ($3.12 million) from a special presidential fund, and received bribes of $11.73 million in connection with a government land procurement deal and a separate construction project; the damning piece of evidence was the presence of NT$740 million ($22.2 million) in cash stashed in a Taipei bank safety vault held by the Chens." Yuanta Securities director Tu Li-ping said, "she hand delivered NT$200 million ($6 million) in cash to Wu at the presidential residence in 2006 on behalf of executives of an affiliated bank; the money was an incentive for Wu not to interfere with a merger the bank was pursuing."Chen  insists on his innocence. Contradicting the 100-page indictment, he said that "the $21 million his wife wired to their son's Swiss bank accounts came from leftover campaign donations. Taiwanese law permits such donations to be kept by political candidates."In 1975, Chen married Wu Shu-chen (吳淑珍), the daughter of a physician. The couple has a daughter, Chen Hsing-yu (陳幸妤), who is a dentist; and a son, Chen Chih-Chung (陳致中), who, having received a law degree in Taiwan, studied at and graduated with a M.A. degree from the University of California in 2005.In November 2006, Chen's wife Wu Shu-chen and three other high ranking officials of the Presidential Office were indicted for corruption, charged with misappropriating NT$14.8 million (USD$450,000) of government funds using falsified documents. Due to the protection from the Constitution against prosecution of the sitting president, Chen could not be prosecuted until he left office, and he was not indicted, but was alleged to be an accomplice on his wife's indictment. Chen's term as President of the Republic of China ended in May 2008. Immediately thereafter, prosecutors began investigating him regarding allegations that he misused his discretionary "state affairs fund", as well as his connection to the first family's money-laundering activities. He resigned from the Democratic Progressive Party on August 15, 2008, one day after admitting to falsifying past campaign expenses and wiring campaign contributions to overseas accounts.In November 2008, Chen was escorted by a security staff, into the Taipei prosecutor's office for questioning. After 6 hours, he left the Supreme Court prosecutor`s office in handcuffs, was arrested and detained. The charges each carry a minimum penalty of 5 years imprisonment. Following a 6 day hunger strike while in detention, Chen collapsed and was rushed to Taipei's Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, where he was later transferred to Panchiao Hospital for force-feeding. Despite Chen's lack of interest in appealing, his lawyer Cheng Wen-long completed a motion seeking his release from detention and filed a notice of appeal of the court's decision, along with a petition for constitutional interpretation to restrain actions violative of the Constitution.Prosecutor General, Chen Tsung-ming said that after Chen’s case had been removed to the Taipei Local Court, he would re-file a petition for Chen's detention. Chen and the main opposition DPP have accused President Ma Ying-jeou's administration of "using the scandals to plan a political plot against the former leader."Meanwhile, The Straits Times reported that "prosecutors are to investigate former President of the Republic of China and Chairman of the Kuomintang from 1988 to 2000, Lee Teng-hui on suspicion of money laundering, based on allegations made by Chen during his own questioning recently that his predecessor transferred large funds abroad through dummy accounts." Mr. Lee angrily denied the accusations concerning "a suspected transfer of 50 million Taiwan dollars (US$2.26 million) to Mr Lee from a local stock investor via overseas dummy accounts." Charges also included transactions made at the end of Lee's tenure and at the beginning of Chen's term, including "one billion Taiwan dollars that had been wired to various countries including Singapore."The China Post calls for calm and urges fair trial for Chen. "All the people should wait patiently for the outcome of the trial ... They shouldn't do anything to influence the judges in any way, because the rule of law in Taiwan is at stake. We should show the world that Taiwan is a democracy where anybody who commits a crime, be he a man on the street or a former president, is duly punished." it said.Chen Shui-bian, the former president of Taiwan, has been sentenced to life in prison after being convicted on charges of corruptions.The Taipei District Court found Chen guilty of embezzling over US$3 million from a presidential affairs fund. The ex-president was also convicted of having accepted $9 million worth of bribes connected with government land deals.Chen's wife, Wu Shu-chen, the former first lady, was also jailed for life.Several hundred demonstrators protesting against Chen's conviction were outside the court, some of which threw bottles and other objects at law enforcement after the court had announced the verdict.Chen was president of Taiwan from 2000 until 2008. He frequently conflicted with Chinese leaders by asserting Taiwan's independence from the former. China claims Taiwan is a breakaway province and says it will forcefully retake the island if it attempts to formally gain independence.The man who took at least 22 people hostage in Colbert de Torcy High School near Le Mans, France, most of whom were teenagers, surrendered without incident.Reports indicated 20 of the hostages were students, and two others were adults, possibly school employees. This was higher than initial reports of 18 students and two adults. According to a school receptionist, Bernadette Mercier, the students ranged in age from 17 to 18 years old. The school holds up to 1,500 students. No one was harmed in the incident.The situation began when the man, aged 33, walked into Colbert de Torcy High School at 1:00 PM GMT, Thursday afternoon and officials say he was suffering from depression. "We knew him, so we simply let him in," Mercier said. "He seemed totally normal."The hostage-taker was reported to be armed with a gun, which later turned out to be fake.The man had lost his job as a substitute teacher at the school two years ago. He was quoted as saying he "wants to talk to the press about his employment problems." He's also asked to speak with François Fillon, the local mayor and former French education minister. Mr. Fillon was the author of an education reform program.Students were allowed to use their mobile phones to communicate with their families according to Jean Luc Prigent, head of security for the Le Mans region which includes the school. A special hotline was set up, along with a crisis center for parents of the students.A hostage rescue team called the GIGN, was dispatched to the scene, coming by helicopter from Villacoublay Military Airport just west of Paris.Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy said he was paying close attention to the situation.The school is located in northwestern France in Sablé-sur-Sarthe near the city of Le Mans.A man who was formerly a physical education teacher has been given a jail sentence for murdering his father in the south-west of London, England. The sentencing was made after a court trial in the Old Bailey, a famous courthouse in London. 55-year-old Robert Walsh, who suffers from a mental disorder called schizophrenia, stabbed his 84-year-old father Joseph Walsh with a potato knife fourteen times in April 2009, in the suburb of Earlsfield. The latter gained wounds to his liver and to one of his lungs. He died as a result of his injuries the following month. Robert had stated that he had consumed 10 pints of cider before committing the attack.After the attack, he commented to the police officers about his father: "I must be mad. How is my dad? I went berserk. I stabbed him. He has been winding me up all day." Members of the police force visited Robert twice on the day that the murder occurred. The court heard that, during the attack, a person who lived nearby heard the sound of glass smashing at 1400 BST on the day of the attack. The resident also heard Joseph proclaiming: "Help, stop this".Robert pleaded guilty to the offence of manslaughter by reason of diminished responsibility. Speaking to him in the courthouse, Recorder of London Judge Peter Beaumont stated: "The family tragedy is almost unimaginable." Beaumont then gave Walsh an indefinite prison sentence.Ex-Washington, D.C. third grade teacher Eric Justin Toth, who worked at the National Cathedral's Beauvoir school, was officially added to the top of the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitive List yesterday, replacing Osama bin Laden, who was killed by US Navy Seals last May.  The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) began investigating Toth in 2008 when a school camera allegedly used by Toth contained child pornography.The FBI also believes Toth was responsible for installing a camera in the student's bathroom near Toth's classroom.When Toth became aware of the investigation he became a fugitive.  Toth, who also goes by the name David Bussone, has warrants for his arrest in Maryland and the District of Columbia.The FBI is currently offering a reward for up to $100,000 leading to Toth's arrest.Toth is the 495th person to be placed on the Ten Most Wanted List.Former terrorist Verena Becker has been arrested after new evidence surfaced linking her to the murder of German Federal Prosecutor General Siegfried Buback and two bodyguards in 1977.The 57-year-old was a member of the Red Army Faction, a communist terror group that hoped to trigger a workers' revolution. Most of the organisation's other members were sentenced to lengthy jail sentences for this and other killings, but the case against Becker in Buback's slaying was dropped for lack of evidence, and she was later pardoned from her convictions in other crimes.The case was reopened last year, and new technology was able to recover DNA evidence from at least one envelope containing a letter of responsibility from the terrorists, who were also known as the Baader-Meinhof group after their co-founders. This DNA matched Becker, who now lives in Berlin.Becker's apartment was raided last week, and police recovered other evidence linking Becker to the killings, including a manuscript of a book she was working on about the crime. According to her arrest warrant, she was involved in "essential contributions to the preparation and execution of the attack."Buback was gunned down in his car by a masked assassin on a motorcycle. Which Red Army Faction member was the gunman has never been determined, and Becker has always denied direct involvement. She has been free since 1989, when she was pardoned for six attempted assassinations.A former nurse from Texas is in jail after a grand jury in Angelina County indicted her over allegations she murdered patients by injecting bleach into them. Kimberly Saenz is suspected of killing five people at the DaVita Dialysis Center in Lufkin.A sudden string of deaths caused the center to close on April 28, 2008. The center reopened that July. Saenz was fired in April, and arrested last May under suspicion of having caused harm to two patients. It is now believed by authorities she injected ten people with bleach, killing five.She is accused of killing Clara Strange, Thelma Metcalf, Garlin Kelley, Cora Bryant and Opal Few and of harming Marva Rhone, Carolyn Risinger, Debra Oates, Graciela Castenada and Marie Bradley. The 35-year-old is being held without bond after turning herself in.DaVita's regional vice president Larry Crisp said of the developments "The grand jury has issued an indictment for capital murder for the death of five patients and further, five additional indictments for aggravated assault. Our patients and the caregivers have been outraged at how the alleged actions of one person have caused so much pain and trauma to so many."A former advisor for U.S. President Donald Trump was sentenced in U.S. Federal Court on Wednesday. Paul Manafort was sentenced by Judge Amy Berman Jackson to 73 months in federal prison and to also pay financial restitution to the Internal Revenue Service in the amount of US$6.16 million.Manafort's charges involved unregistered foreign lobbying and witness tampering. Judge Jackson clarified in the proceedings that her sentencing decisions were not connected to or impacted by the sentence Manafort received in a separate case for which Manafort was sentenced last week. However, as part of her admonition, Judge Jackson stated, "Saying I'm sorry I got caught is not an inspiring plea for leniency." In last week's action, another federal judge sentenced Manafort to a 47 month prison term. After his conviction in that case last summer, Manafort agreed to help with Robert Mueller's investigation. However, some months later, the judge in that case determined Manafort had lied and violated that deal. That conviction was related to Manafort's lobbying business. In 2018, while preparing for his first trial, Manafort was kept in solitary confinement at least 23 hours per day. In that trial, he faced 18 counts of fraud pertaining to his financial reporting for his pay while working on a foreign campaign in Ukraine.Former director of the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation James Comey testified on Thursday before the Senate about meetings between himself and U.S. President Donald Trump and about the Russian involvement in last year's election, in which Trump was elected."I take the president at his word — that I was fired because of the Russia investigation. Something about the way I was conducting it," Comey told the Senate, "the president felt, created pressure on him that he wanted to relieve."Other parts of Comey's testimony raise questions regarding whether Trump committed the crime of obstruction of justice by attempting to end the FBI's investigation of his former advisor Michael Flynn."The president never, in form or substance, directed or suggested that Mr. Comey stop investigating anyone," Mr. Trump's lawyer, Marc E. Kasowitz, told the public.Trump fired Comey about a month ago, on May 9.  Officially, he was dismissed for mishandling the Hillary Clinton email scandal, according to the U.S. Justice Department, and for investigating alleged ties between Trump's presidential campaign and the Russian government, according to President Trump. Of Trump's claims that Comey was fired because he'd done a poor job of running the FBI and that his subordinates did not trust him, Comey said, "Those were lies, plain and simple."In a speech to business leaders in Toronto, Canada Wednesday, Former Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge contradicted a view that the Canadian border security system is weak. Rather, he praised the role of Canada in protecting the U.S./Canadian border."I don't accept the thesis that Canada is lenient or hasn't done what it needs to do to advance their interest and doing their share to combat terrorism... The law enforcement and intelligence community collaboration is excellent."The U.S. border with Canada is 4,000 miles long, twice as long as its border with Mexico.Since September 11, 2001, $8 billion has been spent by Canada on border security improvements.  Canada plans to spend an additional $1 billion in the coming year.The U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky has convicted former soldier Pfc. Steven D. Green of raping 14-year-old local girl Abeer Oassim al-Janabi in Iraq, before murdering her and her family. He is the fifth person convicted of the crimes.Green, who was described in court as the ringleader, took it in turns with at least three other soldiers to hold the girl down and rape her in 2006. The group then murdered Abeer as well as her younger sister and both parents. The gang then burnt down the family house in Mahmudiya to try to cover up their crimes.The other four men were court martialed as they were still soldiers when they were charged. Most are now serving multiple life sentences after three confessed and the fourth was convicted. Green was honorably discharged from the US Army after medics diagnosed him with a psychiatric disorder and described as having "homicidal tendencies" before authorities learned of his involvement in the rape and murders.Spc. James P. Barker and Sgt. Paul E. Cortez are serving 90 and 100 year sentences respectively after confessing, while Pfc. Jesse V. Spielman received a 110 year sentence after his conviction. Pfc. Bryan L. Howard, who did not know of the planned crimes before their commission and remained at a checkpoint while the offenses were committed, received a 27-month sentence. Charges were dropped against Sgt. Anthony Yribe, who was honorably discharged.Green, who set the teen's body alight and bragged about his crimes, is facing a possible death sentence. His lawyer had argued that extreme stress from combat had rendered Green unable to distinguish enemies from friends.Yevgenia Tymoshenko has announced her mother, former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, is to end her hunger strike after nineteen days. Yulia's lawyer, Serhiy Vlasenko, cited "what is happening in the country and what is happening to her in prison" as reasons for her commencing her fast. The politician is serving a seven-year sentence for abuse of office arising from a gas deal with Russia while she was Prime Minister. She has accused jail guards of assaulting her while transporting her to a hospital against her will to get treatment for back pain which she has reportedly been experiencing for months. In the incident, Vlasenko said Tymoshenko "naturally got scared, began resisting, after which she received a punch in the stomach and passed out", referring to a bruise which remains present on her body. Adherents of Tymoshenko have publicised pictures showing bruising on the politician's body. Corrections officers have refuted claims of their responsibility. Kharkiv regional prosecutor, Henadiy Tyurin, confirmed "she was picked up, carried to the car and taken to the hospital" but insisted: "According to the law ... the prison service has the right to use physical measures".Tymoshenko was scheduled to appear in a fresh trial for a tax evasion charge the day before she was taken to hospital. In theory, the hearing could have her imprisonment extended to the year 2023. The trial has been postponed to May 21. She does not accept she broke the law as the boss of a Ukrainian gas company in the 1990s.Tymoshenko has refused to accept medical treatment from Ukrainian doctors for her back problems, but has been given permission to travel from her current prison in Kharkiv to a hospital in the same city yesterday. There she is to be assisted by German doctor Lutz Harms, who is to "begin bringing [her] out of her hunger strike", Yevgenia explained. At the time of her going on hunger strike, Vlasenko spoke of Tymoshenko not having the ability to leave her own bed.Yevgenia described how her mother "appears to have lost 10kg [22 lbs], her temperature has dropped significantly and she may pass out any minute now". Due to the hunger strike, it was considered "impossible to start treatment immediately", she said.In the hours prior to this announcement, the Ukrainian government postponed a European summit scheduled for May 11–12 in the city of Yalta due to what the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs described as a "connection with the fact that a number of European leaders [being] unable to take part in the Yalta summit for different reasons". At least ten leaders, including the presidents of the Czech Republic, Romania, Austria and Germany, reportedly reversed their decisions to appear at the summit in relation to the treatment of Tymoshenko.Ukrainian UEFA Euro 2012 football matches scheduled for June may also be boycotted by leaders, according to BBC News Online. The European Commission has stated its commissioners will refuse to attend Ukraine-hosted Euro 2012 matches. The German government has clarified that what happens to Tymoshenko will influence whether or not its representatives will appear at the matches. Tymoshenko denies abuse of office charges, believing them to be part of a campaign by President Viktor Yanukovych to prohibit her from politics. The European Union and the United States strongly criticised the conviction as they believed it is politically influenced.In the 2010 presidential elections, she was narrowly beaten by Yanukovych. Tymoshenko was also the leader of the Orange Revolution, which removed power from Yanukovych after he won the 2004 Ukrainian presidential election amid electoral fraud.In a letter, Tymoshenko appealed to Europe to persist in pressuring Yanukovych because Ukrainian citizens "cannot fight [Yanukovych's government] on their own" and "Ukraine may simply never have fair elections again", she claimed. She had earlier spoke of her belief that Yanukovych was vengeful.Yuri Kravchenko, a former Interior Minister in Ukraine, has been found dead in his home just hours before questioning for the case of murdered journalist Georgiy Gongadze. Early reports indicate that he committed suicide, but the circumstances of his death will most likely result in further investigation by the authorities.Yuri Kravchenko was the Ukraine's Interior Minister in 2000 when Mr. Gongadze was murdered. Mr. Gongadze's headless body was buried in the woods near Kiev but his head was never found. Nobody has yet been arrested for the murder, but it was believed that Mr. Kravchenko's evidence could have led to an arrest.On Monday, Judge Rodion Kireyev declined the second request to release Yulia V. Tymoshenko, who was jailed last Friday for contempt of court. Tymoshenko faces trial in the Ukrainian capital of Kiev, facing charges of abuse of office and exceeding her power as Prime Minister.Prosecutors charged Tymoshenko in May 2011 for overstepping her powers by signing a gas deal with Russia in January 2009. Investigators believed the gas price agreement was too high and caused the Ukrainian economy to lose at least US$182 million. As a result of these initial charges she was placed under travel restrictions.As the trial began, Tymoshenko was accused of repeatedly violating court rules and proceedings. The judge ordered her arrest for contempt after she reportedly refused to stand up whilst addressing the judge. The prosecution accused Tymoshenko of mocking witnesses openly questioning Judge Rodion Kireyev’s objectivity. Tymoshenko denies these charges and believing the trial is merely political. Tymoshenko’s lawyer Sergei Vlasenko describes her detention as "unprecedented and illegal."Many have appealed for her release, including her lawyers, 200 prominent Ukrainians who signed a petition, leader of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church Patriarch Filaret, and Foreign Minister Arseniy P. Yatsenyuk. Both Tymoshenko and her supporters believe this trial is politically motivated with ties to President Viktor Yanukovych, suspected of attempting to bar her from future elections. The trial has attracted the attention of both the US and EU, who have criticised the charges, saying selective prosecution of political opponents is evident. However, the Ukrainian government denies any involvement.Outside the court, protestors have been occupying Kiev’s main streets, setting up tents and waiving the white and red flags of Tymoshenko’s political party. The support for her release is overwhelming, despite a ban on rallies passed by city court. Protestors are being watched closely by dozens of Berkut anti-riot police. If sentenced, Tymoshenko may face up to ten years in prison. The trial is expected to continue next Monday.Reports are emerging that Yulia Tymoshenko, the Ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine who in currently in prison at Kharkiv, has been on hunger strike since Friday. According to her lawyer, she is protesting against "what is happening in the country and what is happening to her in prison."It was further reported that she has been punched in the stomach by prison guards, and has received bruises on her arms and stomach from being manhandled several times between prison and hospital. The Kharkiv regional prosecutor, Henadiy Tyurin, confirmed that "According to the law... the prison service has the right to use physical measures: she was picked up, carried to the car and taken to the hospital."Tymoshenko has been sentenced to seven years and has been imprisoned since last October on charges of abuse of office relating to her time as Prime Minister. Other charges of embezzlement and tax evasion are pending which could push the sentence to a further twelve years.Tymoshenko denies the charges and believes they are are part of a campaign by President Viktor Yanukovych to bar her from politics. She was narrowly defeated by Yanukovych in the 2010 presidential elections. Officials from the United States and European Union have described the prosecution of Tymoshenko as selective and politically motivated. A statement from the White House urged Ukraine to release Tymoshenko and other Ukrainian politicians. Ukraine has been informed by the European Union that pending bilateral agreements will not be ratified while Tymoshenko remains in prison.A Texas judge handed down a three-year prison sentence today to Tom DeLay, former US House Majority Leader.  The sentence is a follow-up to a conviction in November of money laundering and conspiracy charges committed in 2002. DeLay, a right-wing Republican, was considered one of the most influential congressman in the history of the United States House of Representatives.  The sentence handed down by Judge Pat Priest was originally 8 years behind bars. However, DeLay was allowed to deduct 5 years for the money laundering charge, in exchange for 10 years of community service. DeLay's bail was set at $10,000 while his appeal is pending.  In November, DeLay was convicted of funneling hundreds of thousands of dollars to other Texas politicians. Although DeLay was found guilty, he denies all charges of misconduct. "Judge, I can't be remorseful for something I don't think I did," he said.  The prosecuting attorney, Steve Brandt said this non-remorseful sentiment should be cause for more prison time: "He has shown no remorse, no remorse whatsoever...He needs to go to prison, your honor, and he needs to go today."Patrick Sullivan, who was given the US National Sheriffs' Association's (NSA's) Sheriff of the Year award in 2001, has been sentenced to a month in prison. Sullivan was sent to the Colorado jail named in his honor for offering men drugs in exchange for sex.The 69-year-old was Arapahoe County's resident sheriff until his 2002 retirement. He has testified on police work before the Congress and then-President Bill Clinton placed him on the National Commission on Crime Prevention and Control in 1995, one of a number of national appointments. The Arapahoe County jail was renamed after him upon his retirement.In actions Michael Dougherty, prosecuting, termed "a disgrace to the badge", Sullivan last year gave methamphetamine to two male prostitutes in exchange for sex. He was filmed in a sting operation and later admitted the offences of using and distributing methamphetamine, and soliciting a prostitute. Informants assisted the police and Sullivan was arrested last November.Sullivan, who spent eighteen years as a sheriff, was given 30 days in prison, plus eight days he has already served. He is to pay $1,000 and must undergo a substance abuse programme. He pleaded guilty and said in court Tuesday "I apologise... There is no excuse for my behavior."Aaron Kennard, Executive Director of the NSA, said the events were "disheartening and devastating". Sullivan's lawyer is reported to have told the court Sullivan has had difficulty with his sexuality.Jean-Pierre Bemba, one of the Democratic Republic of Congo's (DRC) former vice presidents and militia leaders, has been arrested in Belgium on charges of war crimes. This comes as United Nations (UN) peacekeepers discovered three mass graves in the nation containing an estimated total of 100 bodies.Reports say that the warrant issued by the International Criminal Court (ICC) included at least two counts of crimes against humanity and four counts of war crimes which he allegedly committed in the "Central African Republic from 25 October 2002 to 15 March 2003." Bemba, who fled the DRC in 2007, was arrested near Brussels on Saturday, May 24 late in the day. He had exiled himself after facing accusations of treason, which he denies. Bemba was DRC's vice president from July 2003 to 2006, and in 2007 was elected to the nation's senate. He was also in control of a militia called the Movement for the Liberation of Congo from about 2002 until 2006. As the leader, he refused orders for the group to renounce armed conflict after a new government was elected in 2006.In addition to his political roles, Bemba is a businessman worth an estimated several hundred million US dollars. He has business ties in radio as well as television and aviation.The warrant describes the specific charges that Bemba is facing in accordance with the Rome Statute of the ICC:Two counts of crimes against humanity: rape - article 7(1)(g), torture ‑ article 7(1)(f);Four counts of war crimes: rape ‑ article 8(2)(e)(vi), torture - article 8 (2(c)(i), outrages upon personal dignity, in particular humiliating and degrading treatment - article 8(2)(c)(ii), pillaging a town or place ‑ article 8(2)(e)(v)."Pre-Trial Chamber III found that there are reasonable grounds to believe that in the context of a protracted armed conflict in the Central African Republic from about 25 October 2002 to 15 March 2003, MLC forces led by Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo carried out a widespread or systematic attack against a civilian population during which rape, torture, outrages upon personal dignity and pillaging were committed in, but not limited to, the localities of PK 12, Bossongoa and Mongoumba," stated the ICC in a statement on their website.The ICC states that this is the first in a series of arrests expected in an ongoing investigation. "The warrant of arrest for Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo is the first warrant issued in the situation in the Central African Republic. Four situations are currently under investigation by the Prosecutor: Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Sudan (Darfur) [and the] Central African Republic," added the statement.A UN mission spokesperson stated that the bodies discovered in the DRC have been there possibly since the 1990's or even the early 2000's, but an investigation is ongoing. Troops were patrolling an area in Maboya, a village in the Kivu province, when they found the bodies."Apparently they were graves dating back to the 1990's, but it's difficult to know accurately. The first one they excavated contained 100 bodies. The second was seven, and the third one they couldn't estimate," said Kemal Saiki, a mission spokesperson for the UN.Millions of people are believed to have been killed during the years of 1998-2002 when the nation was ravaged with war.According to court documents obtained by Wikinews, Randy Squires, an African American male and a former police officer of the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia (DCMPD) has filed a lawsuit against the department alleging racial discrimination and harassment by a fellow officer. Squires is also suing the former mayor of D.C., Anthony A. Williams, and the district's Attorney Generals office. Squires is also suing his superior officer, Robert Atcheson, for racial discrimination and harassment."Defendant Atcheson treated Plaintiff differently than similarly situated Caucasian police officers in several respect, including but not limited to assignments, evaluation, and disciplinary actions, deprivation of overtime and use of departmental vehicles," stated court papers filed by Squires' attorneys, Donald M. Temple and Dhamian A. Blue of Temple Law Offices in Washington D.C.Squires accuses Atcheson, a white-caucasian male and a lieutenant in the Environmental Crimes Unit (ECU) Warrant Squad and the Paternity Warrant Squad, of discriminating against him on the basis of the color of his skin and also harassing him while on the job. Squires originally started to work in DCMPD 1988, and shortly after he was hired, he began to work in the ECU. Atcheson was in control of the unit Squires belonged to.In court documents, Squires alleges Atcheson treated him with "flagrant racial discriminatory conduct," like using the word "mope," which is defined as slang for "nigger," and that the discrimination was "designed to intimidate, insult, emasculate and humiliate" Squires. In one incident in 2002, during a training exercise, Atcheson allegedly "deprived Squires of appropriate breathing apparatus, which is designed to save life in emergency and hazardous situations," but that the apparatus was "provided to two other caucasian officers."Documents also allege that Atcheson had "falsified" a report to North Carolina State Police after Squires was arrested and wrongfully charged with "unauthorized taking of a police vehicle." Court documents say that the report to N.C. police states that "Atcheson falsely told Plaintiff (Squires) that he had photographic evidence of the police car outside Plaintiff’s home overnight and of Plaintiff driving the car from his home."Court documents also allege that Squires allegedly informed his superior officer of Atcheson, only known as  'Captain Brito,'  of the incident, but no action was ever taken against Atcheson. Squires initially filed a complaint against Atcheson with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, (EEOC) in a letter on March March 8, 2005.The Washington D.C. police department has investigated the claims made by Squires, which "revealed inappropriate conduct toward Squires," but according to documents, no disciplinary action has been taken against Atcheson or his superiors.The defendants "deny any and all allegations" that Squires has made against them and also state that Squires "failed to exhaust their administrative remedies and/or failed to comply with other mandatory filing requirements." Defendants also say that "all actions taken by District (Washington D.C.) relating to Plaintiffs were necessary, reasonable, pursuant to lawful authority, and based on legitimate, non-discriminatory reasons" and that "the district denies that any district policymaker adopted, approved, condoned and/or maintained an unconstitutional policy, practice or custom of unlawful employment practices."Squires is asking at least US$350,000. Squires and the Defendants also request that a jury be present during the trial, which is scheduled to conclude on June 26.Police in Amery, Wisconsin say that they have arrested a 39-year-old former teacher's aide that used to work for Amery School District, charged with having sex with one of her 16-year-old students. Brenda K. Baillargeon, if found guilty, will face more than six years in prison and a possible fine of not more than $10,000. Brenda K. Baillargeon now faces 3 counts of sexual assault of a student by school staff and 2 counts of child enticement with sexual contact. According to a complaint filed Thursday in Polk County Circuit Court, Baillargeon first had sexual intercourse with the alleged victim sometime between May 19 and May 29 at a lake cabin. They also allegedly had sexual intercourse on August 2 at the teen's home while his mother was away and on or about Sept. 30 at the home of the accused. The alleged victim's mother contacted authorities after her son confessed the activity to her Nov. 13, according to the complaint.School representatives from the Amery School District would like to let people know that students are safe at school.A federal jury found Bernard Ebbers guilty on all nine counts in an indictment for fraud, conspiracy and false regulatory filings. The verdict was handed down by a New York jury after 8 days of deliberation on the former WorldCom CEO and mastermind behind the accounting scandal that brought down the telcom giant. AP writer Erin McClam reported that when the verdict was announced, “Ebbers’ face reddened.”Sentencing is set for the second Tuesday of next week when he could receive 85 years in prison for the conviction.Ebbers who took the stand in his own defence, said he left the details of the company's accounting to others and that he had no knowledge of shady practices. But Scott Sullivan, the ex-chief financial officer of the company and key prosecution witness, directly linked Ebbers to the fraud. Sullivan agreed to co-operate with prosecutors in the hopes of receiving a lenient sentence for his own involvement in the scandal.The fall of WordCom sparked a massive class action law suit by investors. The plunge in WorldCom's stock changed the capitalized value of the company in the range of $11 billion as the scandal unravelled. Secuities fraud cases stemming from the suits will probably break new legal ground where the involvement of investment banks and public accounting firms who would normally check company irregularities will be called into legal question.Former World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Jeff Hardy has been arrested on five major drug charges. The former WWE Champion’s home was searched by police and they seized 262 Vicodin prescription pills, 180 Soma prescription pills, 555 milliliters of anabolic steroids, a residual amount of powder cocaine and other items of drug paraphernalia. The estimated street value of the drugs is $2,500. Hardy's charges are listed as "felony trafficking in opium, two counts of felony possession with intent to sell or deliver a Schedule III controlled substance, felony maintaining a dwelling to keep controlled substance, felony possession of cocaine and misdemeanour possession of drug paraphernalia."It is believed that Hardy is now back at his North Carolina home and his brother, fellow World Wrestling Entertainment superstar Matt Hardy, posting the $125,000 bail.The superstar released a statement on his Twitter page saying "A lot of exaggerations are out there today, don't believe everything you read 4 it is not true, I am at home and fine-thanks for your concern."Hardy only left the WWE two weeks ago when he lost a “Loser leaves WWE” match against CM Punk. During his tenure at WWE he was often surrounded by both controversy and personal issues. He was released in 2003 with him saying it was a “mutual decision” He returned in 2006 but was suspended twice for violations to the WWE wellness program. He also had a stint in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, where he was suspended and later released for missing shows. Hardy’s arrest comes less than a week after former WWE and WCW superstar Sean O'Haire was arrested on charges of misdemeanor battery and criminal trespass.Esteban Ruiz Santiago, 26, appeared in federal court in Fort Lauderdale, Broward County, Florida this Monday. Santiago stands accused of a shooting at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport on Friday at 12:55 p.m. local time (1755 UTC) at the lower level baggage claim area in Terminal 2 of the airport. The incident killed five people and injured six, with roughly another 40 people injured in the crowd while hastily evacuating from the scene.Police drove Santiago from the Broward County main jail to the court building in the morning. At the hearing, Santiago attended handcuffed and also cuffed at the ankles, guarded by at least eight police officers. The Magistrate, Judge Alicia Valle, questioned Santiago on his finances. The prosecutor also sought a detention order for public safety and flight risk. The hearing took about 20 minutes. The Judge ordered Santiago a public defender, and set a detention hearing for January 17, and the arraignment hearing for January 23. After the hearing, the police returned Santiago to the Broward County main jail.At the hearing, Santiago had admitted to earning US$2,100 a month as a security guard in Alaska, while only having about US$10 of savings in a bank, and no other property.  The Judge also informed Santiago of the penalties that may be imposed on him in the case he was convicted.On Friday, authorities said, Santiago arrived from Anchorage, Alaska with only one baggage item — a suitcase with an unloaded Glock 9 mm semi-automatic handgun. Upon arriving at the airport, he picked up the suitcase at the baggage claim carousel and loaded it in a nearby bathroom. Then he walked out and started shooting people, at random according to a witness. People started to run and hide, and Santiago continued to shoot. Then Santiago stopped shooting, witnesses claiming he ran out of ammunition. The police arrested him. He did not resist the arrest.According to officials, Santiago received a mental health evaluation in November, after he traveled to an FBI office and walked in alleging his head was controlled by the government and he heard voices urging him to watch ISIS propaganda. At the time of that incident he left his infant son and a gun in a car, and the infant was given to mother's care. His gun was seized at the time of that incident, but Santiago was given it back on December 8.Santiago traveled from Anchorage, Alaska to Minneapolis to Fort Lauderdale Airport on a Delta Airlines flight. Investigations were ongoing to determine the motivation for the incident. No evidence was found of Santiago communicating with any other individual in relation to the incident; he seemed to be acting alone. In an interview, Santiago admitted to having planned the shooting in advance when purchasing the airline ticket. According to CNN, Esteban Santiago previously belonged to the Alaska Army National Guard, including a ten-month stint in Iraq where he was given a combat action badge. According to Santiago's family, his mental health issues started after his ten-month tour in Iraq, after which he began to tell them about auditory hallucinations.All flights to and from Fort Lauderdale Airport were suspended by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) until Saturday morning, and roads in and out of the airport closed.Santiago was born in New Jersey. He spent his childhood in Puerto Rico, an unincorporated US territory in the northeastern Caribbean Sea.At the time of the incident, it was legal in the US to transport guns in a hard-sided and locked container by air. In Florida, it was also legal to carry a gun in an airport terminal without removing the gun from its case.On Wednesday, approximately forty Hells Angels locations were raided by police in Ontario, New Brunswick, and British Columbia. Police arrested more than thirty people in the three provinces.The largest Hells Angels location in Canada, located in downtown Toronto on 498 Eastern Ave., was raided early Wednesday morning. Nearly sixteen members were arrested with two members still on the wanted list. Toronto Police removed the sign and are now investigating. They are currently planning a large crackdown on the Hells Angels in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA)."Hopefully by now biker gangs and their associates are getting the message: we're here to shut you down. You can run but you can't hide, and we will do all that we can to bring you to justice," said Ontario Provincial Police Commissioner (OPP) Julian Fantino. "I believe that we have to continue the attack on organized crime however it's manifested, and we owe the citizens of our community no less." "It's a good day for policing in Toronto, a good day for policing in Ontario.""Project Develop was an 18-month investigation that utilized a full-patch Hells Angels member as a police agent to infiltrate the Toronto downtown chapter of the Hells Angels," OPP Inspector Dan Redmond said yesterday. "Hells Angels criminal activity has been exposed by one of their own."Nearly 170 charges were laid against thirty-one people, police said, though they provided no list of charges or names. Sixteen full-patch members are said to be in custody, with arrest warrants outstanding for another two. Police seized vehicles, drugs, weapons, property and real-estate, but were not specific about the amounts.The Hells Angels is a large biker gang founded 1948 in Fontana, California and is estimated to have 1,800 members in 22 countries. Since they started many other biker gangs merged with them, due to the fact that the Hells Angels are larger. The Hells Angels have 500 members in Canada, thirty-four active chapters in Canada, sixteen in Ontario, seven in British Columbia, five in Quebec, three in Alberta, two in Saskatchewan, and one in Manitoba. A number of raids have been made since, with two in September and January 2006.A location on Sherwood Ave. in Scarborough, Ontario, and a house on Berard Court in Barrie, Ontario are under a restraining order as they may have drug related crimes.The Toronto chapter of Hells Angels, in the "Real Deal News" section of their website, alleged that the police were staging a show for the media and that the raids were overly dramatic to make Hells Angels look bad on television.The founder of Amnesty International, Peter Benenson, passed away last night after suffering for some time from a serious illness. At age 83, it is forty four years since he founded Amnesty as a result of reading an article about the imprisonment of two students in Portugal who had drunk a toast to liberty. Amnesty International said they will be holding a public memorial service and there will be private ceremony for family members however there will be no funeral service. Amnesty International's current Secretary-General, Irene Khan, said after his death: "Peter Benenson's life was a courageous testament to his visionary commitment to fight injustice around the world."The organisation was initially formed in 1960 for "a one-year campaign for the release of six prisoners of conscience." Today Amnesty has over 1.8m members and campaigns for human rights on a global basis. Mr. Benenson was originally trained as a lawyer before he dedicated his life to the promotion of human rights.Russian authorities have detained four people on Wednesday on suspicion of vandalism, following an incident where the spire of the iconic Kotelnicheskaya Embankment Building in Moscow was painted in the colors of the Ukrainian flag. The suspects, reportedly consisting of two men and two women, allegedly ascended the building by stairs to reach its top floor, before using climbing equipment to complete the ascent, according to Moscow police.Over the course of the previous night, the suspects proceeded to paint the top half of the building's star-shaped spire blue and erected a Ukrainian flag atop at about 7:15 am local time, reports the Interfax news agency, with information corroborated by Moscow's municipal emergency services. The alterations to the building made by the suspects remained for several hours, before workers removed the flag and repainted the spire to its normal color. Containing 32 floors and standing at a height of 176 m (577 ft), the Kotelnicheskaya Embankment Building is one of the Seven Sisters, skyscrapers constructed between 1947 and 1953 in Moscow under the direction of Joseph Stalin.Following the act, at least one of the suspects then reportedly descended from the building by parachute, reported state news channel Rossiya 24, and captured on a video published by Lifenews, reportedly filmed by a local resident. Additional video broadcast by Rossiya 24, taken from a window, captured a parachuting suspect landing in a nearby playground. Among the suspects was Alexander Pogrebov, who has denied the charges brought forth by authorities. “I was detained for parachuting off the skyscraper. I chose that place because it's beautiful. [...] It just so happened that at the time of the jump, someone else committed an act of vandalism — they destroyed the spire with paint, and raised the Ukrainian flag.” said Pogrebov in an interview to LifeNews. Pogrebov's comments were supported by a police official, who stated to the Itar-Tass agency: "The two young men and two girls say they jumped from a high building with parachutes. They say they didn't hoist any flag and didn’t paint the flag." If convicted of vandalism, Pogrebov and the other suspects may be sentenced to a maximum of three years imprisonment. Over the phone to Bloomberg, an unidentified duty press official stated the suspects were previously arrested over other charges. According to reports from Russian state television, all four suspects were Russian citizens.Other acts by Russian protestors to show support and solidarity with Ukraine, contrasting the approval which came following the Russian annexation of Crimea, included the singing of the Ukrainian national anthem by protestors while being arrested.  Russian musician Andrey Makarevich, who fronts the band Mashina Vremeni, which translates to "Time Machine", was labelled as a "traitor" by Russian lawmakers and musicians who supported Russian interests, after he traveled to eastern Ukraine last week to perform for displaced children in regions held by the Ukrainian army.On a post on Twitter, Russian opposition leader Gennady Gudkov stated "I don't justify youngsters who painted a star on the skyscraper, but this is an administrative offense, not criminal". In 2011 and 2012, following accusations of electoral fraud during the parliamentary elections at the time, Gudkov supported protestors who took to the streets of Moscow in opposition to Russian president Vladimir Putin.The act comes just days prior to Ukraine's Day of the National Flag on August 23 and Independence Day on August 24. The country's president, Petro Poroshenko, expressed his approval from Kiev of the act and praise for the suspects in a written post on Facebook. "On the eve of Independence Day we are starting an initiative called 'Our Colours,' which is devoted to the Ukrainian flag" ((uk))Ukrainian language: ‍Напередодні Дня Незалежності ми починаємо ініціативу "Наші Кольори", яка присвячена українському прапору, wrote Poroshenko. "And it is symbolic that, on this day, our colours have been painted on what is perhaps the greatest skyscraper in Moscow. I urge Ukrainians throughout the world, wherever they are, on the eve of the anniversary of our independence, to decorate their homes, offices, and cars in our national colours." ((uk))Ukrainian language: ‍Символічно, що в цей день в наші кольори розфарбували, можливо, найбільшу висотку в Москві. Закликаю українців по всьому світу, де б вони не були, напередодні річниці Незалежності, прикрасити свої будинки, офіси, авто в наші національні кольори."I like very much the fact that, on the eve of celebrating the Ukrainian flag, one of Moscow's highest buildings was painted in our colors," Poroshenko said in a video posted on Facebook. "I congratulate these Ukrainians." Following the deaths of more than 2,000 people and the displacement of 300,000 from their homes amid fighting in eastern Ukraine between the Ukrainian armed forced and pro-Russian separatists, Poroshenko is scheduled to discuss the crisis with Putin next week, the first such meeting in two months.Four men were arrested at 04:30 BST (4:30 a.m.) in police raids at two addresses in Birmingham, West Midlands in relation to the failed London bombings of 21st July. One of the four men, arrested in Heybarnes Road in the Hay Mills area, is thought to be suspected of being one of last Thursday's bombers, and has been taken to the high security Paddington Green police station in London. Police have acknowledged using a Taser stun gun in the arrest, but no firearms were used.The other three arrests were made shortly afterwards in Bankdale Road, Washwood Heath. Police said a suspect package was found at one of the addresses and local residents were evacuated. Two men were also arrested at Grantham railway station after information was received from off-duty policemen on a GNER train travelling between Newcastle and Kings Cross.The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) has reported that four arrests have been made in a foiled plot to blow up jet-fuel supply tanks and pipeline at John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), in New York City. The DOJ suggested the plot was interrupted in the early planning stages through cooperative law enforcement work in the United States and abroad.The four arrested were identified by the DOJ in a press release Saturday as Russell Defreitas, a U.S. citizen and native of Guyana, Abdul Kadir, a citizen of Guyana and past member of the Guyanese Parliament, Kareem Ibrahim, a citizen of Trinidad, and Abdel Nur, also a citizen of Guyana.Defreitas, a former employee of JFK was arrested in Brooklyn, New York. Kadir and Ibrahim were arrested in Trinidad. It was not made clear where Nur was arrested, however the DOJ indicated that the U.S. will initiate extradition proceedings for the three.The DOJ alleged that the four began the planning in January, 2006 through to the present. It was revealed that law enforcement officials believed the targets included buildings, fuel tanks, and fuel pipelines at JFK, which were to be destroyed with explosives. The primary pipeline target was the Buckeye Pipeline, which distributes fuel to depots as far away as Pennsylvania. It also serves New Jersey and various boroughs of New York.It was alleged by the DOJ that the plotters "tapped into an international network of Muslim extremists from the United States, Guyana, and Trinidad, and utilized the knowledge, expertise, and contacts of the conspirators to develop and plan the plot, and obtain operational support and capability to carry it out."Defreitas traveled from Guyana to JFK to allegedly conduct surveillance of the airport on four occasions in January 2007. According to the DOJ press release, the four plotters "obtained satellite photographs of JFK airport and its facilities from the Internet and traveled frequently between the United States, Guyana, and Trinidad to discuss their plans and solicit the financial and technical assistance of others."U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York Roslynn Mauskopf described the scenario as "one of the most chilling plots imaginable." She went on to say at a news conference in New York that "the devastation that would be caused...is just unthinkable."An undercover investigation by Naperville, Illinois law enforcement has led to the arrest last Thursday of four people allegedly involved in prostitution. The stings came after police received tips that people were using websites like Craigslist and Backpage.com to sell sexual performances in Naperville hotels. Patricia H. Scoleri of Naperville was arrested after an unidentified neighbor observed consistently suspicious activity at Scoleri's home. Traffic was unusually heavy and consisted mostly of luxury cars in an otherwise quiet, middle-class neighborhood. Also, the visitors were mainly middle-aged men, and an odd string of lavender-colored lights were hung on the front window.Police say Scoleri worked alone. She was arrested at 2 p.m. local time (2000 UTC) and is charged with violation of anti-prostitution laws, anti-cannabis laws, and the Massage Licensing Act. She apparently has four children, but the Illinois Department of Children and Family Services has neither contacted her nor received a police report on her.The second sting occurred at 5:30 p.m the same day (2330 UTC) and resulted in the arrest of Chicago resident Tonya M. Adams. She is charged with prostitution and driving without a license. Another sting about an hour later resulted in the arrests of Jessica M. Walley, a Skokie resident, and Mark A. Williams, a self-admitted Schaumburg gang member. "Walley was charged with prostitution and unlawful possession of cannabis. Williams was charged with pimping, obstructing a peace officer, driving with a suspended license and driving without insurance," reports WBBM News Radio 780. All four suspects are free, having paid the required ten percent of their $1,000 bail. They may face additional charges related to crack cocaine discovered during the police investigation. Arraignment is scheduled for next month at the DuPage County Circuit Courthouse in Wheaton.Florida Highway Patrol says that the bodies of four people, two adults and two young children, were found on the Florida's Turnpike a few miles south of the I-95 interchange in Fort Pierce, Florida.Highway Patrol Troopers received a call around 8 a.m. from someone who spotted the bodies of a male and female adult, who were both in their 20's to 30's, and a male and female child, between the ages of 4 and 6, on the southbound side shoulder of the Turnpike.St. Lucie County Sheriff Ken Mascara said that the victims had been shot multiple times. Mascara also said that no vehicle was found, but there were tire tracks nearby.The Sheriff's office says that they think the bodies were shot on the scene because of the posture of the family. The mother's body was found holding on to the children on either side of her.The area where the bodies were found is near the St. James Golf Club as well as several home developments. A resident of a nearby housing development reportedly heard shots or fireworks around 3 a.m.The turnpike has several traffic cameras in the area, however Sheriff Mascara says they were not recording at the time.Four bombings in two days have left over 130 dead in Iraq, with at least as many injured. Al Jazeera reports that at least 60 were killed in the two explosions at a tomb in Baghdad today. Unlike yesterday's attacks, one of which was also in Baghdad, today's attacks happened in rapid succession. Two gates of the Shia tomb were targeted shortly before the Friday prayer - a time at which it would be crowded. The BBC states the suicide bombers were two women.According to police reports yesterday, at least 76 people were killed in the two separate suicide bombings that happened Thursday. A further 63 people were reported injured that day. Five children were among the casualties.48 people were killed by a suicide bomber in a restaurant in the northeastern Iraqi town of Baquba. The other blast had occurred in Baghdad, when a suicide bomber detonated a belt full of explosives near a group of police officers giving supplies to Iraqis displaced by sectarian violence."It is a suicide bomber. Obviously that has the fingerprints of al-Qaeda," said a Baghdad security spokesman, Major-General Qassim Moussawi, commenting yesterdays attack.Abdulnasir al-Muntasirbillah, the governor of Diyala, condemned the attacks. "Words can't express it. It is a dirty, cowardly terrorist act," he said yesterday.Issam Salim, a witness to Thursday's Baghdad attack, described his experiences to the Associated Press: "I turned around as I fell to the ground and saw a big fire break out with black smoke. Women and children are crying from pain beside me in the hospital. Some of them suffered burns."Four current and former British Airways (BA) employees have been charged with price fixing by the United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading (OFT). They are the first employees of a major UK company to be prosecuted for this offense.BA have already been fined a record £270 million for their part in the scheme by authorities in both Britain and the United States. On at least six occasions, BA and Virgin Atlantic agreed to illegally fix fuel surcharge prices. BA have also paid US$136 million to settle a US class action by passengers affected by the crimes. Virgin was not prosecuted as the OFT granted the company immunity in exchange for being the whistle blower.As part of a plea bargain made by the airline and the US Department of Justice (DoJ), some immunity was granted against prosecution of individuals, but ten were not granted this immunity. Three former and one current executive at BA from those ten are the men charged under the Enterprise Act 2002.The current employee is head of sales Andrew Crawley, while the three others are ex-commercial director Martin George, ex-head of communications Iain Burns and former head of UK sales Alan Burnett. Burns and George both resigned in 2006, while Burnett retired in the same year.There has only ever been one comparable case, involving industrial oil hose price-fixing, but this never went to trial as the defendants pled guilty. Therefore, this may become the first trial of its kind as well as the first major prosecution.BA was also fined US$300 million recently by the DoJ for a similar deal with Korean Air.BA CEO Willie Walsh said earlier this year that "any anti-competitive behaviour is to be condemned at BA or at other companies."The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem), the regulator of the electricity and gas markets in Great Britain, has launched an investigation into four of the largest British energy suppliers over suspicions that they not be complying with face-to-face and telephone sales regulations. The four organisations facing scrutiny could be fined up to 10% of their annual turnover if it is found that they are breaking sales regulations. Scottish Power, npower, Scottish and Southern Energy and EDF Energy are all to face questioning by the organisation.Ofgem has urged customers of the four companies to alert the energy regulator, "if they are concerned about the sales approach any domestic suppliers have taken when selling energy contracts, either face-to-face or by telephone," according to a statement. "As part of the investigation process Ofgem will examine any evidence of non-compliance and consider whether there are grounds for exercising enforcement powers." New regulations on sales tactics by energy suppliers were recently introduced, and, Ofgem has said, energy suppliers must be "proactive in preventing misselling to customers both face to face and over the phone. Also, if suppliers are selling contracts face to face they must provide customers with an estimate before any sales are concluded. In most circumstances customers should also receive a comparison of the supplier’s offer with their current deal." Only one in five consumers consider energy suppliers to be trustworthy, and 61% of people feel intimidated by doorstep sales people from energy companies. According to the organisation Consumer Focus, "complaints have declined since new rules came into effect this year, but suppliers still seem to be flouting the rules. Some customers are still being given misleading quotes and information, which leave them worse off when they switch provider."The newspaper The Guardian has reported that "householders are reporting that sales agents working for the energy suppliers are giving them misleading information and quotes which leave them worse off when they switch supplier." Consumer Focus has said that if energy companies continue to break the rules, they could be banned from doorstep-selling completely. The report goes on to say that "new figures from helpline Consumer Direct show that while the number of complaints has fallen since last year, about 200 cases of mis-selling are being reported each month." However, Scottish Power said it insists on “the highest standards possible for all of our sales agents”, and npower told the Financial Times that it was “confident that the processes we have in place mean that we comply with our regulatory obligations”. EDF added that it was “fully compliant with all obligations regarding sales of energy contracts”.According to the regulator, the obligations are serious and must be followed by energy supplies, or they will face "tougher sanctions than those available under more general consumer protection law." Ofgem has published a guide advising consumers what they should do should an energy salesperson contact them in person of by telephone. Improper sales tactics are still common in the industry—in 2008 an Ofgem investigation found that 48% of gas customers and 42% of electricity customers were worse off after switching supplier on the doorstep. Npower was fined £1.8 million in 2008 by the organisation, and Ofgem insists that they are "committed to taking action" over improper sales activities by energy companies. “Suppliers have existing obligations to detect and prevent misselling and new licence conditions were brought in following our probe to further increase protection for customers," said Andrew Wright, a Senior Partner of the regulator. "We expect all suppliers to comply with these tougher obligations but if our investigations find otherwise we will take strong action.”Head of energy at Consumer Focus, Audrey Gallacher, called the investigation "a welcome step ... to address years of customers getting a bad deal on energy prices on their doorstep. While many doorstep sales people will do a good job, the pay and rewards system continues to encourage mis-selling, despite years of regulation and voluntary initiatives. If better advice for customers and enforcement of the tougher rules doesn't end the flagrant abuse of this form of selling the big question will be whether it should be completely banned." Christine McGourty, director of Energy UK, which represents the leading gas and electricity companies, said that "the companies involved will collaborate with the Ofgem investigation and are awaiting further details from the regulator. Any sales agent in breach of the code will be struck off the approved energy sales register." Which? chief executive, Peter Vicary-Smith, has said he considers the situation “shocking", saying that the investigation "will do nothing to improve consumer trust in energy suppliers. We're pleased that Ofgem has promised tough measures against any firms guilty of mis-selling. We hope it uses this opportunity to tighten rules around telesales so they are in line with those for face to face sales."SNP Westminster Energy spokesperson Mike Weir MP, however, said that the investigation "does nothing to tackle the real problem of fuel prices which leave many Scots facing great difficulty in heating their homes ... Rather than tinkering around the edges Ofgem should be looking at how to reduce prices for vulnerable households." Gareth Kloet, Head of Utilities at Confused.com, one of the UK’s biggest and most popular price comparison services, also welcomed the inquiry. "It is unacceptable for energy companies to mislead customers like this," he said, adding that Confused.com has previously "urged energy providers to either stop the practice of doorstep selling or make it very clear to households that better deals are available online. There is no reason why door-to-door salesmen can’t show people online deals and even help households switch to them.”“Our research reveals customers could end up paying £167 more than they need to as door-to-door salesmen are unable to offer the discounts that are applied online. The changes that have been made to date are a welcome addition to safeguard customers; however this review has been much needed for a long time. Hopefully it will mark the end of customers being overcharged and missold," Kloet continued. "Our message to energy consumers remains the same: they should shop around online to make sure they’re getting the best deal possible and turn these salesmen away.”At least four children are among seven killed in Dinuba, California after a police chase ended in a crash.Reports say the crash happened around 2:45 p.m. (PDT) on Saturday in a rural area of Tulare County. Police were pursuing a suspect who, after refusing to stop, slammed into a GMC Sierra pickup truck carrying two adults and five children. Four of the children were ejected from the truck and died at the scene. The two adults and one child were taken to Community Regional Medical Center located in Fresno where they are being treated for minor to severe injuries.According to KFSN-TV, after the suspect slammed into the car, both vehicles landed against trees in a lemon tree orchard at the intersection of Avenue 424 and Road 120. Three people, including the suspect, were in the pursued car and died at the scene.Police are continuing to investigate the incident.In Mexico, gunmen opened fire on the occupants of an ambulance Wednesday, resulting in the deaths of the ambulance driver, two kidney patients, and a female fourth individual travelling in the vehicle. The incident occurred in Ciudad Juárez, close to the Mexico–United States border.Witnesses recalled sighting a pick up truck carrying the gunmen deliberately colliding with the ambulance and forcing it to stop, then the gunmen getting out of the truck and shooting the victims. The ambulance driver, who was impacted in the head by a bullet, seemed to be the gunmen's intended target, according to Mexican authorities.No specific reason has been suggested for the killings at this stage. However, it is understood that Ciudad Juárez, adjacent to El Paso, Texas on the United States side of the border, has drug-related businesses currently in a dispute with each other.Over 1800 people have been killed in Ciudad Juárez this year compared to over three thousand murders last year, according to Voice of America. Ciudad Juárez is one of the most significant locations in the Mexican Drug War, which was launched by Felipe Calderón, the current President of Mexico, in 2006. Since then, about thirty thousand deaths have been recorded as Calderón has proceeded against the drug cartels.Four people have been shot and killed and at least 15 wounded when a gunman opened fire inside a LA Fitness center in Bridgeville, Pennsylvania. The gunman was among the dead.Reports say the man walked into a dance room where an all-female Latin dance class was in session, turned off the lights and began to shoot people. CNN reports that the gunman was a "middle-aged white male." One witness said he was carrying a duffel bag, which he put down before shooting into the crowd. After opening fire, he turned the gun on himself. At least 30 people are reported to have been in the room at the time of the shooting.Allegheny County police Superintendent Charles Moffatt said, "I've never seen nothing quite like this.  It was very chaotic. [...] There's a good belief that the shooter is deceased."Collier Township Police Chief Tom Devin stated that the police, "believe the shooter committed suicide at the scene but we're not positive."  Police report that the shooter's motive may have been a domestic dispute with one of the exercisers.Mike Hentosz, a witness who was inside the gym, said, "I feel like it's a dream. I don't know what to think of it."  A woman participating in the class, Nicole, said that 10 minutes into the class, "a middle-aged white male walked into the class. He had a big gym bag. [...] He looked out of place in a class full of women."  When he began firing, she reported, she ran out of the gym and escaped in passerby's car.Four explosions have rocked a brand new, soon to be online power station in Spain's Basque reigon in the city of Amorebieta. Shortly before the blasts, warning calls were made to Basque newspaper Gara and the Basque emergency road service known as DYA, police rushed to the scene and evacuated workers. The calls were made by the Basque separatist group ETA.There are no confirmations of injuries or structual damage from the blasts at the moment. Spanish radio however reports that there were no injuries and some minor structual damage. Witnesses to the explosions say they were small.Warning calls before blasts are common by ETA, usually Gara will get the call.The plant is run by ESB International.The bodies of two adults and two children were found yesterday at a flat in Gibraltar in a possible murder-suicide. Two young girls, one aged four and the other only six weeks, were found stabbed alongside a British 31-year-old male and a Spanish 37-year-old female. Royal Gibraltar Police said despite opening up a crime investigation on the deaths they do not currently believe anyone else was involved.Police said an apartment letting agency staff member notified them about the property where the bodies were discovered. Police responded to the flat, in the Boschetti's Steps area, at around 11:35 local time. Police said "They got no answer from within but noticed that the house was locked from inside and that sent a few alarm bells ringing and they decided to call the police[...] At the moment what we are doing is trying to get as much background information from both the Spanish and the UK sides of the family."Police also said the family were not permanent residents in Gibraltar and had entered the British overseas territory only days ago. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office said they too were looking into the incident. According to the Spanish newspaper El Mundo, police sources believe the older girl is the woman's daughter but not the man's. Police confirmed “It is believed that all the deceased belong to the same family". As relatives of the deceased are being sought, the names of the victims have not yet been released.Fabian Picardo, the Gibraltar Chief Minister, spoke of his shock after hearing about the deaths. "As a husband and father, I — like no doubt all Gibraltarians and residents of Gibraltar — am in total shock to hear about this terrible crime[...] Gibraltarians are not accustomed to witness this type of incident in our peaceful and law abiding community. Words will fail us all at a moment like this and all we can do is keep the victims and their families in our thoughts." Due to the incident he ordered parliament be adjourned until Wednesday.Four dead bodies have been discovered in two separate locations within the town of Leicester, in Leicestershire, England, United Kingdom. All four individuals are thought to be from the same family unit, with one man, one woman and two children among the dead.On Friday night, Aram Abdul Razaq Aziz, who was male and aged 32, was discovered deceased in Watermead Country Park. On Saturday afternoon, the body of 24-year-old Joy Small was discovered in an apartment on Jersey Road. Her son, three-year-old Aubarr Aziz and her daughter Chanarra, aged two, were discovered alongside her and were also found to be dead.Post-mortem examinations are anticipated to occur on Monday. A spokesperson for Leicestershire Constabulary stated that "[n]o causes of death have been established at present, but the deaths of the woman and children are being treated as suspicious. Inquiries are at an early stage, but officers are not looking for anyone else at this time."According to BBC News, police have been involved in previous incidents with the family.Gunmen have killed four French tourists in Mauritania, Africa. The police chief of Aleg, Mohamed Ould Lemine, told Associated Press that the tourists were robbed at gunpoint before being gunned down with automatic weapons.A fifth French tourist is reported to have survived, but is seriously injured. The gunmen reportedly sped away after the attack which took place East of the capital, Nouakchott.The French Ministry of Foreign Affairs has confirmed that four French citizens died in Mauritania, but not any of the details surrounding the case.Four people were killed and another four wounded in an early-morning shooting at a Buffalo, New York restaurant yesterday. The shooting occurred as a party held in the restaurant was coming to a close.At about 2:30 a.m. EDT (06:30 UTC), shots were fired outside the City Grill in downtown Buffalo. The victims were leaving a party in the restaurant, said authorities. The City Grill's managers had just decided to close the restaurant until it was scheduled to next open due to an argument inside when the shooting happened.At least 100 people had attended the party, in order to celebrate the first anniversary of a couple whose wedding was held last year. A formal anniversary event was scheduled for a later date, officials said. The couple had married in Texas one year ago and came to Buffalo to celebrate with friends and relatives. The 30-year-old husband, who was born in Buffalo, was one of the four killed in the shooting, but his wife was not hurt.Police have not yet released the identities of the victims. Of the three others killed, one was a 26-year-old man and two others were women. Those two were identified as 27-year-old Shawntia McNeil by McNeil's mother, Ruby Martin, and 32-year-old Tiffany Wilhite by Martin and Tiffany Wilhite's father, Raymond Wilhite. Three of the four were pronounced dead at the crime scene, while the fourth died in a hospital. The four injured in the shooting were all men, said authorities. As of Saturday afternoon local time, one was in critical condition at an area hospital, two were in stable condition, and one was in good condition.Latoya Nuness, who witnessed the shooting as she was leaving the restaurant with friends, said, "I’ve never been through anything so crazy." She and her companions then ran into the kitchen for cover. "They were just shooting whoever they could shoot," she said.Police arrested 25-year-old Buffalo resident Keith Johnson in connection with the shooting on Saturday afternoon. Johnson was charged with four counts of second-degree murder. Police do not know if he was a part of the fight that happened inside the City Grill, and have asked witnesses to step forward.An explosion occurred in a bus in the Epifanio de los Santos Avenue, in Makati City, Philippines on Tuesday.  The blast occurred in shortly before 2 p.m.  Four are dead with fourteen more wounded.After the explosion, the National Capital Region Police Office's Director, Nicanor Bartolome, said that he formed a special investigation team and the city has formed a crisis management committee. President Benigno Aquino III condoled the grieving families of the dead. The Metro Manila police are now on full alert following the blast. The bus was an air-conditioned model, plate number TXJ-710.After news reached the Malacañang Palace spokesman Eduardo Lacierda said that the cause of the blast was "some sort of explosive device placed in the vicinity of the middle of the bus." Many passengers had already got off before the explosion; almost half disembarked at Ayala.A survivor said that they did not notice the explosion because they were all busy watching television. The bus driver noticed an abnormal smell, namely gunpowder. He stated that mechanical failure could not possibly be the cause. The police are yet to establish what type of explosive was used.Four South Korean women have accused Jeong Myeong-seok (Hangul: 정명석, Hanja: 鄭明析), the leader of the new religious organization JMS, of rape.The four women were crying and wearing hats, sunglasses and mouth masks to cover their faces. Gim Du-hyeong (金度珩), the former leader of EXODUS, accompanied them on the press conference held in Seoul, South Korea.EXODUS is a South Korean non-governmental organization against JMS, formed by former members of JMS. EXODUS had been tracing Jeong Myeong-seok in many nations for many years.Gim Du-hyeong stated that Jeong Myeong-seok was an instructor for the International Sung-gong Association under Unification Church.  According to other sources, in March 1980, Jeong left the Unification Church and established Ae-Chun Church. Later, the name changed and the organization reached the world. Jesus Morning Star (JMS), International Christian Association (ICA), and Global Association Of Culture and Peace (GACP), are all closely related organizations.The organization operates worldwide, primarily on university campuses. There are 240 branches of the church in Korea alone, and there are organizations in almost all universities.Gim said the major branch of these colorable religious organizations, Jesus Morning Star (JMS), was named after the acronym of Jeong's romanized name, "JMS".  Gim also said Jeong established and exploited the evil dogma of "salvation through intercourse" to rape countless women from Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Malaysia.Jeong Myeong-seok was born in Wolmyeong-dong in South Chungcheong. Gim said that Wolmyeong-dong was later claimed a sacred place by JMS. And before Jeong fled Korea, he had been living lavishly and promiscuous here.In September 2001 Jeong Myeong-seok was charged with sexual assault by the Korean government and left the country.  In November, the Taiwane version of Next Magazine covered the story of "Korean cult leader raped over hundred Taiwanese female college students".  Members of Exodus soon came to Taiwan and held a press conference with an involved woman in local Legislative Yuan.Gim said, under heavy critics of Taiwan media, Jeong fled to Hong Kong, and still kept raping Korean women who came to visit him. He was arrested by local Immigration Department in 2003 July, but escaped to Mainland China on his 100,000 USD bail. Jeong was still wanted by Interpol.Gim said, since then Jeong have been staying in one of four lavish villas in Anshan, Liaoning province.Gim said, on April 2 He had a group sex with more than 50 women from Korea, Japan, Hong Kong and China. Jang and Gim, two of these women, fell for the invitation of a Taekwondo performance, and were also raped and injured badly in crotch.The two women escaped on April 4 and tried to take plane back to Korea. Jeong's gang attempted to kidnap them, but they were saved by Chinese police, and returned Korea for treatment on 7.Then, four other presenters cried out and accused Jeong had sexually violated them in Hong Kong, Malaysia and mainland China. They demand media's effort to prompt international community to bring Jeong to justice.Four foreign men have today gone before a court in Hungary on suspicion of people smuggling. Their detention relates to Thursday's discovery of a lorry full of corpses in Austria. The death toll was yesterday finalised at 71.The lorry had been abandoned since Wednesday on the hard shoulder of the "Eastern Motorway", near the Hungarian border. Roadworkers became suspicious of dark liquid seeping from the vehicle, and responding police found the bodies. Initial police estimates were that 20–50 were suffocated in the back of the lorry which was near Parndorf.The arrested men are thought to include the vehicle's owner and at least two drivers. Three are Bulgarian and one is from Afghanistan. Criminal suspects in Hungary can generally be held for 72 hours before charge but prosecutors, citing the seriousness of the case, want the period extended. Extradition to Austria is possible.Of the 71 dead, 59 are men, eight are women, and four are children. The children are thought to be aged three, eight, and ten years, alongside an eighteen-month-old baby. "There was also a Syrian travel document found" police spokesman Hans Peter Doskozil told journalists "so of course our first assumption is that these people were migrants, and likely a group of Syrian migrants. We can rule out that they were Africans".The four accused were escorted into court in Kecskemet, central Hungary, by a police convoy. Reportedly the lorry traveled from Kecskemet. Hungary is presently building a border fence across the Serbian frontier, as migrants from war-torn Syria and other regions seek access to the Schengen Area of free movement, which covers most of the EU.Slovak chicken meat company Hyza, a previous owner, previously told Wikinews the lorry has changed hands several times in roughly the last year. After they sold it they say it was exported to Hungary; it now bears Hungarian plates but still features Hyza branding including pictures of meat.On the day of the discovery Hyza quickly removed a graphic from their homepage featuring cartoon chicken stowaways in a car being inspected at a customs post. The stowaways also appeared with a line through them alongside the word "imigranti" and the site www.imigranti.sk in one corner. On the other side was Hyza's logo. Imigranti.sk is also unavailable.Police today found 26 migrants in a lorry near Braunau am Inn, Austria. The driver, from Romania, refused to stop for police and was arrested following a chase. Police said three children were hospitalised for "severe dehydration". Found near the German border, the migrants were from Afghanistan, Syria, and Bangladesh.An additional four members of the Bali Nine, convicted of smuggling heroin into Indonesia will face the death penalty. In all, six of the drug smugglers are sentenced to death by firing squad. The Bali Nine is the name given to nine Australian citizens arrested in Indonesia in early 2005.Zarof Ricar from Jakarta's Supreme Court has confirmed that the previous 20 year sentences given to Tan Duc Thanh Nguyen, Si Yi Chen, Matthew Norman and Scott Rush had been changed to death by firing squad after an appeal by prosecutors. Bali Nine members Andrew Chan and Myran Sukumaran had previous been the only members of the group to be given the death penalty.Ricar's confirmation ends a day of speculation about the fate of the men. The Australian government is still seeking official confirmation about the decision, believed to have been made on August 16.Relatives of the Bali Nine have again attacked the Australian Federal Police for passing intelligence to Indonesian officials which led to their arrest. Australian Justice Minister Chris Ellison denies any inappropriate actions by the AFP and says authorities merely cooperated with Indonesia.Macquarie National News's Indonesian correspondent Sujadi Siswo said it was not unusual for Supreme Court decisions to be kept secret in Indonesia."It's not the procedure for the Supreme Court to make public their results, so what's happened is one of the lawyers of the defendants has informed the media," he said.The U.S. military have charged four more soldiers with the rape and murder of a 14-year-old Iraqi girl, Abeer Qasim Hamza al-Janabi, and the murder of her parents and sister.U.S. officials originally estimated the girl's age to be 25, but have since lowered their estimate. The girl's identity card and death certificate show her birth date as August 19, 1991. This was also confirmed by the mayor of Mahmoudiya, Mouyad Fadhil Saif, while speaking to CNN. U.S. Army spokesman Paul Boyce also said he has seen documents that indicate she could have been about 14. The soldiers allegedly conspired with Steven Green, who was charged on July 3 with rape and murder in connection with the same events. A sixth soldier was charged with dereliction of duty for not reporting the crime back in March when it happened.A U.S. Justice Department affidavit states that the rape was pre-meditated and that three soldiers accompanied Green into the house while another soldier monitored the radio while the assault took place. The affidavit says that Steven Green shot the woman's family, including her 5-year old sister. He and another soldier then raped Abeer, and Green fatally shot her.The affidavit quotes soldiers telling military investigators that Green and his companions then set the family's house on fire, burned their bloodstained clothing, and threw an AK-47 rifle used in the killings into a canal, in an effort to destroy evidence of the crime.A U.S. military official has told the Associated Press that U.S. investigators will attempt to have Abeer's body exhumed in order to to collect forensic evidence.According to a confirmed report by police, four officers in the Oakland, California police department have been shot and are in critical condition. The incident was reported to have occurred around the 7400 block of the city's MacArthur Boulevard at approximately 1:15 PM Pacific Daylight Time after two motorcycle officers pulled over another vehicle, after which they were both fired upon by the suspect driving the car.Oakland Police chief Howard Jordan said in a statement that a call was made to the police department at around the same time stating that the two officers had been shot. Police units were then dispatched on a manhunt for the shooter.At 3:20 PM Pacific Daylight Time, an unnamed caller reported sight of the suspects on a near street, East 27th Street, causing police to create a blockade, surrounding the suspect. This is where the other two wounded officers were shot, this time in an exchange of gunfire while attempting to take the alleged shooter of the two officers into custody. The suspect was killed by police gunfire.All four of the officers have been taken to Highland Hospital in Oakland, where they are all listed in critical condition. Currently, police are investigating whether there was more than one shooter, but it is believed that the suspect that was attempted to be taken into custody was the only one involved with the crime.Four Pakistani police officers have been shot dead by suspected militants, according to police. The attackers allegedly shot into a police car before setting it on fire.Two officers were also injured in the shooting, which was the region's second such attack in less than a month.The local police chief commented on the incident. "An unknown number of gunmen used automatic rifles and rocket-propelled grenades to target the police party," he said.An adviser to the Pakistani Prime Minister said that the peace deal signed with militants last month may be discontinued if incidents like this occur. He said that if there are incidents like this, there is "no point" in the government attempting to follow the agreement.Witnesses heard gunshots in a Wal-Mart parking lot in Cedar Park, Texas, near Highway 183, on Sunday morning. Police arrested eighteen year-old Soloman Onwukaife at the scene. Four, including the gunman who had facial wounds unrelated to the shooting, are being treated for injuries after the incident. A fifth victim has been released.Cedar Park Police Captain Mike Harmon said authorities arrived at the parking lot around 4:30 AM local time. There they arrested Onwukaife, who has been charged with aggravated assault with a deadly weapon. The Cedar Park Wal-Mart was closed down briefly on Sunday morning; however, no staff or customers were injured.Police have released the names of the victims, eighteen-year-old Cody McGrath, nineteen-year-old Shayne Davis, nineteen-year-old Zacharia Gietl and 22-year-old Leland McGlocklin. As-of Monday, Gietl has been released from hospital whilst the others remain in critical, but stable, condition. Police informed media the incident occurred follwing a dispute which began at a nearby party where alcohol was being served. After moving the fight to the parking lot, Onwukaife is alleged to have shot the four victims.Onwukaife was expected to be released on Monday, after which he would immediately be jailed. Police advised media the investigation is on-going and more charges may still be filed. Specifically, Police are trying to determine if any other participants in the fight were armed.Early afternoon saw a shooting in the church parking lot of New Life Church, an Evangelical Megachurch, in Colorado Springs, Colorado, United States. According to a report quoting the church's pastor four people were shot by a gunman in the car park.At this time it is unknown if there is any connection with yesterday's shooting approximately 70 miles away in Arvada, Colorado, where a gunman shot two and injured two people at Faith Bible Chapel's missionary training centre in a dormitory.All four police officers shot in Oakland, California on March 21, have died in local hospitals, according to reports. The shooting is described as the deadliest for police officers in Oakland's history."It's in these moments that words are extraordinarily inadequate," said the mayor of Oakland, Ron Dellums during a press conference. Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger also offered his condolences."All four officers dedicated their lives to public safety and selflessly worked to protect the people of Oakland. Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of those lost, the Oakland Police Department and law enforcement officers throughout California during this difficult time," said Schwarzenegger in a statement to the press.The shooting began around the 7400 block of the city's MacArthur Boulevard at approximately 1:15 p.m. (PDT) on March 21, after two motorcycle officers pulled over another vehicle. After doing so, the officers were both fired upon by the suspect driving the car.At approximately 3:20 p.m., an unnamed caller reported sight of the suspects on a near street, East 27th Street, causing police to create a blockade, surrounding the suspect. This is where the other two officers were shot, this time in an exchange of gunfire while attempting to take the alleged shooter of the two officers into custody. The suspect was killed by police gunfire. The suspect's name was Lovelle Mixon, aged 26, who had a warrant issued for his arrest after his bail was revoked for violation of parole. All four of the officers were taken to Highland Hospital in critical condition where they all later died of their injuries. Their names were: Sergeant Erv Romans, aged 43, Sergeant Dan Sakai, 35, Officer John Hege aged 41 and Sergeant Mark Dunakin, 40.Four Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers were shot and killed while raiding a house in the rural town of Mayerthorpe, Alberta. The suspected shooter, James Rosko, 46, also died in the raid. The RCMP reported that he committed suicide after killing the four officers with his own rifle.The officers were carrying out a court-ordered property seizure. They discovered stolen property and a marijuana growing operation. The following officers were killed in action:Const. Peter Schiemann, 25Const. Anthony Gordon, 28Const. Lionide Johnston, 34Const. Brock Myrol, 29The shooting has shocked the peaceful region and the country of Canada. The Liberal Party of Canada has responded by agreeing to recommend tougher laws for grow-ops. Local citizens are reacting to the losses with memorials and condolences. The rural town of Mayerthorpe, with a population of about 1,600, is located about 130km northwest of Edmonton.Shortly after nine PM last night a gunman walked into the T.G.I. Friday’s on University Drive in Huntsville, Alabama and opened fire on a table where Tanqueray Beavers, Thurston Turner, Autora Rogers, and William Reliford sat.  The suspect was reported fleeing the scene in a 1970’s era black Chevelle with silver racing stripes and chrome wheels.  Huntsville Police stopped a car matching this description and took the driver, Jamal Woods, into custody for questioning.It has been confirmed that one of the victims, identified by friends and family at the scene as Tanqueray Beavers, died at the scene.  The three others wounded in the attack were taken to Huntsville Hospital and are listed to be in critical condition.Investigators are not releasing any information regarding a motive for the shooting, but Huntsville Police have charged Jamal Woods with murder.On Thursday at the headquarters of the Paris Police Prefecture in Paris, France, an IT worker went on a stabbing spree, killing four. A fifth person was hospitalized in critical condition. The attacker was shot dead by police. Three of the victims were male police officers and the fourth was a female office worker.Officials said the three officers were stabbed with a kitchen knife in their offices. The woman was killed in a stairwell. The attacker, a man, reached the courtyard before he was shot in the head by another police officer. Local prosecutor Remy Heitz said the suspect's wife was taken into custody.Officials said the man was 45 years old and born in the French territory of Martinique. He lived in Gonesse, a suburb of Paris. He was employed with the police since 2003 and was hearing impaired. According to Agence France-Presse, which cited sources close to the investigation, the man had converted to Islam a year-and-a-half ago.The police headquarters, which is situated on an island in the river Seine, was blocked off after the attack. Cité station, part of the Paris Métro, was temporarily closed.The mayor of Paris, Anne Hidalgo, wrote on Twitter: "Paris is mourning its family this afternoon after this appalling attack on the [Police Prefecture]. The toll is heavy, several police lost their lives. In my name and that of the Parisians, my first thoughts go to the families of the victims and their relatives." ((fr))French language: ‍Paris pleure les siens cet après-midi après cette effroyable attaque survenue à la @prefpolice. Le bilan est lourd, plusieurs policiers ont perdu la vie. En mon nom et celui des Parisiens, mes premières pensées vont aux familles des victimes et à leurs proches.The Norwegian police have arrested and charged four men, aged between 20 and 30 for an assault on a synagogue in Oslo at 2:30 am on Sunday, September 17th. The four arrested are from different ethnic backgrounds and can be detained up to three days before appearing in front of a judge. Police have not ruled out further arrests over the incident.At least 10 shots were fired at the synagogue. Nobody was injured in the incident. It is believed that the attack was carried out with an assault rifle. The Mosaic Religious Community, which owns the site had requested better protection following threats and an incident of vandalism last month.Early Saturday morning, somewhat after midnight, police in Clairton, Pennsylvania, in the eastern United States, responded to multiple reports of a shooting at a graduation party. Police said over a hundred people attended the party, located in Allegheny County, four of whom were injured in the shooting.The injured teenagers, three girls and a boy between the ages of 14 and 18, were hospitalized. As of Sunday evening, all four are in stable condition, and no fatalities have emerged from the shooting. The victims have not been identified. The backyard party took place at 619 Waddell Avenue, near the local high school. Neighbors told CBS station KDKA-TV that the area is usually quiet. Party-goers still at the scene after the shooting fled when police arrived, according to county police. The police do not have a suspect yet, and the motive remains unknown.Six people, including four U.N. staff working for the anti-narcotics department in Bolivia, have been killed in a plane crash in a remote area in the west of the country.Two Bolivian military pilots are also among those killed in the accident, which happened in the Los Yungas area, northeast of the capital city, La Paz. The aircraft had been missing since Thursday and was found on Saturday morning according to a general in the Bolivian Air Force, who added the light Cessna aircraft hit a tall tree and then impacted the ground. Robert Brockmann, a U.N. spokesperson in Bolivia, said the aircraft "was completely destroyed and burned." Investigators have not yet determined what caused the accident, but Brockmann said the aircraft was in an area with overgrown trees and steep cliffs. The bodies of the pilots and U.N. personnel, who had been monitoring the transport of coca—a plant used to make cocaine—over several months, have yet to be recovered because of the remote location of the crash site. "The place is completly inaccessible in a very tall forest," the general said.Four US soldiers involved in the burning of two dead Afghan Taliban bodies on October 1st now face disciplinary measures for their actions. The two officers who ordered the burning of the bodies were reprimanded for lacking cultural and religious sensitivity.  The Muslim faith does not permit the cremation of dead bodies. The two soldiers responsible for recording a message boasting about the act of the burning and broadcasting it on loudspeakers will face non-judicial punishment, which may include a loss of pay, confinement to quarters, or demotion in rank. Maj. Gen. Jason Kamiya explained that while the broadcast was "designed to incite fleeing Taliban to fight," this violates military policy. Kandahar's governor, Asadullah Khalid, expressed his confidence into the investigation.  Religious leaders in the region, however, have criticised its findings and called for more severe punishment of the soldiers involved.  An Afghan investigation into the matter that was ordered by President Hamid Karzai has also been completed, although the results have not been released.The US army investigation concluded that there was no intent to desecrate the bodies as the intention behind the burnings were hygienic reasons.  No criminal charges were pressed against any of the soldiers involved.The footage, filmed by Australian journalist Stephen Dupont, has not been aired in Afghanistan, according to the Associated Press.Villagers near the town of Goroka in the jungle-covered highlands about 400 kilometres north of the capital Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea killed four women they believed to be witches. They tortured the women by stabbing them with hot rods so they would confess to causing a road crash using sorcery. The accident had resulted in the death of three prison guards. The villagers hid the bodies in an old pit. With the help of some village elders, police have now discovered these murders which occurred in October of last year. BBC News reports human rights campaigners saying that it is not uncommon in Papua New Guinea for women suspected of engaging in black magic to be killed, often by hanging or burning.In what Humberside Police are describing as a "nasty" attack, a four year-old boy was left with a fractured skull after being battered with a brick. The incident happened on wasteland close to the child's home in Hessle, East Yorkshire. Charlie Davis was discovered by a couple on Thursday. He was in a puddle of blood and part of his ear was hanging off; doctors at Hull Royal Infirmary later performed surgery to repair it. He is still in hospital, and doctors say that his brain is not injured, despite having a fractured skull. A spokeswoman from Humberside Police said: "This little boy has suffered a nasty attack and has some horrible injuries." Police think Charlie, who was playing with a friend, was molested by a male youth. His injuries suggest that he dragged the child across the ground, kicked him in the face, tied him to a tree and struck him with a brick. The police spokeswoman added that police are pursuing several lines of inquiry. "There has been information suggesting possible suspects and these form one of the lines of inquiry being pursued." The assault is thought to have happened before lunchtime on Thursday next to Station Road which is near the Hull to Hessle railway line. "It is currently unclear how the child got to the area. He may have gone of his own accord, he might have been chased there or he may have been taken by someone against his will," said the police spokeswoman. Charlie, who was meant to be going on holiday with his family today, is too disturbed to talk to detectives about the incident. The spokeswoman said: "We do understand that the victim was struck with a brick which has resulted in his injuries. But, clearly, until police can get an account from the four-year-old victim it is not possible to confirm any more details of the incident."Just before midnight Wednesday, four-year-old Taylor Bailey, nicknamed Bucky, was attacked by a neighbor's dog. The Staffordshire Bull Terrier mix named Money chased the boy after he stepped out of his mother's car, eventually knocking the boy to the ground and latching onto his leg. The same dog had bitten the boy's father the week before, according to the family, although this has not been confirmed by police. He recognized the dog and alerted his mother to the dogs presence just moments before the attack. She urged her son to come to her, but the one-year-old, 85-pound (~39 kg) male broke free from his restraints and attacked the screaming boy. The struggle lasted several minutes before the boy's mother, Melinda Walters, was able to fight off the dog, leaving her knees scraped and thigh scratched. The boy's legs were punctured, scratched and bruised with bits of flesh missing. "It didn't go away. It was just trying to grab me ... trying to kill me," the boy said. Walters was carrying her three-year-old son Jason on her hip during much of the fight.The dog's owner, Marquita Mooney, 23, was ticketed along with a relative who was watching the dog. She said that rather than register the dog as a potentially dangerous animal—which involves an insurance bond, fees, kennel requirements and more—she would have the dog put down. Police reports indicate that the dog bit two other dogs about two weeks ago. Mooney has been ticketed for both incidents.This is the second such incident in Minneapolis this month—seven-year-old Zach King Jr. was attacked and killed in his home last week by his family's pit bull—fueling the debate over banning pit bulls and other "dangerous breeds" in some communities. Since 1966, there have been four other deaths from dog attacks in Minnesota, all but one of which were of children seven-years-old or younger.According to three news wires, the fourth London bombing suspect — just named as Hussain Osman — has been arrested by Italian police in Rome.The arrest has been confirmed by the Italian Minister of the Interior. Hussein is a UK citizen who was born in Somalia, and later moved to Britain and naturalized. It comes as two bombing suspects were arrested today in West London, and one in Birmingham on 27 July.On Thursday, Phil Scott of Vermont became the fourth governor in the United States to sign an executive order requiring all companies providing Internet access to state agencies to abide by net neutrality for all customers in his state.  He said he did this because Vermonters rely on Internet access without blocking, throttling and paid prioritization, threatened by the December 14 decision of the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the matter of "Restoring Internet freedom".   The first state governor to challenge the FCC in this way was Steve Bulllock of Montana, who did so on January 22. Andrew Cuomo of New York followed two days later. Philip Murphy of New Jersey signed a similar executive order on February 5.  These four executive orders differ in details, but all require that state agencies purchase Internet access services only from companies with an enforceable commitment to net neutrality for all customers in their state.This is part of a flurry of state-level net neutrality actions.  The New York State Assembly introduced bill A01958 on January 17, 2017, three days before the inauguration of Donald Trump as President of the United States, anticipating action by him to overturn the 2015 "Title II Order" that made net neutrality enforceable in the US.  Two other bills were introduced into the Washington House of Representatives in the ten days before the official decision of Trump's FCC on this issue.  In addition to these, 63 other state-level responses by net neutrality supporters were documented by Fight for the Future (FFTF) by February 16, 2018, including at least 27 bills introduced into the legislatures of 17 states with others reportedly under consideration.  These bills are in addition to the lawsuit filed on January 16 by the Attorney General of New York on behalf of 21 states and the District of Columbia claiming this FCC decision was "arbitrary, capricious, and an abuse of discretion within the meaning of the Administrative Procedure Act" (APA) of 1946 and other grounds.  These states were New York, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, and Washington state.  New Jersey reportedly later committed to join the suit. These four executive orders are the only actions on FFTF's list of actions by net neutrality supporters that seem immediately enforceable.  All others require approval by democratic bodies.  The four executive orders might be challenged in courts as conflicting with "Preemption authority" claimed by the US Federal Communications Commission's "Declaratory ruling, report and order" adopted December 14 and released January 4.  The FCC order was described by dissenting Commissioner Clyburn as "Destroying Internet Freedom" rather than "Restoring Internet Freedom" as the order is titled.  She wrote that this order "will put profits and shareholder returns above what is best for" consumers.Editorial journalist Roger Friedman has lost his job at Fox News following a dispute with the company. Friedman admitted in a movie review late last week to having wached a bootlegged online video stream version of a partially-completed copy of the upcoming film X-Men Origins: Wolverine, a Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation production. Friedman had worked for several years as a reviewer and media journalist for Fox News. While a press release from Fox says that the company and Friedman had "mutually agreed to part ways immediately", news articles report that he was fired.Friedman's status had been ambiguous after an April 5 statement from Fox that Friedman had been fired was met by a response from the journalist that no action had been taken against him.Friedman began his April 2 column, now removed from the Fox website, with: "Yes, I've seen 'X Men Origins: Wolverine.' It wasn't at a screening, either. I found a work in progress print of it, 95 percent completed, on the internet last night. Let's hope by now it's gone." Friedman went on to praise the ease and convenience of downloading, noting that the current box office top 10 were all available. "It's so much easier than going out in the rain!", he wrote.In an exclusive statement to Wikinews, Pirate Party International's spokesperson Andrew Norton said: "Depending on the method he used to obtain the film, he may not have infringed copyright at all, just exercised legal fair use exceptions. When you add in the very positive review he gave the film, it makes you wonder why Fox acted as they did. The reason is painfully obvious, to 'send a message'. Alas the only message they send is that they don't care about facts, and let no-one stand in the way of their paranoid witch-hunt".Website Ain't It Cool News editor "Beaks", meanwhile, responded to news of Fox's initial press release concerning Friedman's review on April 3 with "Friedman has admitted to breaking the law. If 20th Century Fox—and the FBI—are serious about nailing the perpetrator(s) of this leak, then Friedman must be fired immediately for downloading and reviewing stolen material. There's no wiggle room here."The positivity of Friedman's review had led some commentators, Ain't It Cool News among them, to speculate that the leak of the work print of the film had been a deliberate act by 20th Century Fox.The full-length workprint of the film, lacking some special effects and ten minutes of footage shot after principal photography, was leaked on March 31, 2009. While 20th Century Fox adds digital forensic markings to its workprints to trace leaked versions, so far the company has not identified any party as responsible for the leak.X Men Origins: Wolverine, a prequel to the X-Men franchise of films, premieres in theaters in the United Kingdom on April 29, Australia and New Zealand on April 30, and the United States and Canada on May 1, 2009.A security hole on the Fox News web server Sunday exposed sensitive content to the public, including login information that allowed hackers to access names, phone numbers, and email addresses of at least 1.5 million people. Wikinews has learned that an FTP server belonging to publishing company Ziff-Davis could be accessed with a username and password found on the Fox News site, with customer details among the internal data publicly available.The FTP site, used for collaboration between different global aspects of Ziff-Davis business, contains data ranging from expense sheets to resumes to opt-out lists used by customers who wish to avoid receiving unsolicited emails. Many of the compromised files make reference to Acxiom, a data management company that, in 2003, experienced a similar theft of personal information.  Unlike in the 2003 breach, however, it is not believed that the files exposed due to the Fox News security oversight contain customer Social Security numbers or bank accounts. However, telephone and address details appear in the data. A number of the email addresses appearing on the list end in .gov or .mil, suggesting the named individual is a member of the U.S. government or military, respectively.Internet vandals were quick to leave their mark on the compromised Ziff-Davis server, uploading pornography and claiming to have come from popular Internet comedy site eBaum's World. The Ziff-Davis access details are believed to have been on the Fox News server as a part of collaboration between the two media companies for technology news coverage.Security expert David Utter says the Fox News mistake is an example of "sloppiness", though the hole had been patched by noon Monday. Neither Fox News nor Ziff-Davis have commented on the breach.Sun Danyong, a 25-year-old employee of Foxconn, jumped from the 12th floor of a residential building in Shenzhen, China and died on the spot after he lost a new sample of an iPhone mobile phone and was suspected of stealing it.Sun worked with Foxconn, which is one of the factories licensed to produce the iPhone in Guanlan, Bao'an District, Shenzhen, since he graduated from the renowned Harbin Institute of Technology last year.Sun got the iPhones and stored them on July 9. The next day, he found one of the phones missing when he handed over the products to the receivers from Apple. So Sun reported the incident to the supervisor on July 13 after he couldn't find it. Foxconn's environment and safety department made an internal investigation into the case two days later.Before Sun committed suicide, he chatted with his former university classmates and said he suffered from an unlawful search, detention and beatings when he was investigated.At present, the department head who had allegedly mistreated Sun has been suspended from his job and is being investigated by the police.Taiwan electronics giant Foxconn has moved to repair its reputation after the suicide of a tenth employee this year, two others having survived attempted suicides.The latest death came on the same day as Terry Gou, Chairman of Foxconn's parent Hon Hai Precision, opened the Shenzen production facility to the media for the first time. In the face of accusations that he ran a modern day sweatshop, he showed off employee recreation facilities.  Gou, bowing as an expression of regret, promised to work to prevent such tragedies occurring again.Although not a household name, Foxconn is the largest producer of electronics components and badge engineered electronics products in the world, manufacturing products for companies like Apple, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Dell.   Investigations of working conditions are underway.  "Apple is deeply committed to ensuring that conditions throughout our supply chain are safe and workers are treated with respect and dignity," said Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesperson.  Allen Pu of Fubon Securities said: "Hon Hai needs to resolve the issue because the situation is also negative for Apple and HP. Clients may reallocate some orders to other manufacturers."  Labor activists have criticised conditions at Foxconn's factories as "military-style", with workers working long shifts and not being able to speak to each other. However, Foxconn claims that the suicides were mostly the result of relationship problems unrelated to its own management style, and it argues that for a work force so large the number of suicides is small.On Saturday, the French Constitutional Council announced its approval for a proposed law that would make it illegal for anybody other than professional journalists to videotape acts of violence.The law is, as the Associated Press dubs it, a "clumsy effort" to curb the urban youth activity known as happy slapping in which an act of violence, such as kicking a helpless victim, is filmed by the attacker's friends for entertainment purposes.The new law was tucked inside a much larger anti-crime bill put before the Council, and has been chastised for being "deliberately" vague and allowing the prosecution of non-guilty parties who simply videotape events of police brutality, urban riots or other violence.  Under the new legislation, written by Minister of the Interior Nicolas Sarkozy, convicted "citizen journalists" could face up to five years in prison.Media freedom group Reporters Without Borders has called the act "dangerous", and warned that it can be used to target "regular citizens" who film acts of violence. The group has also attacked proposed French legislation that would designate certain media outlets as "government-approved sources of information", citing the dangers of censorship.The deportation was widely anticipated, but the French government had refused to confirm that it would be expelling Afghan illegal immigrants until Wednesday. Immigration Minister Eric Besson told Europe One radio that three Afghan men had been put on a plane that had been chartered by the British government. The plane was also carrying illegal Afghan immigrants living in Britain. Besson said a fourth Afghan had been slated to be expelled as well, but was held back at the last minute. He said those expelled had lost their appeals against deportation, including one before the European Court of Human Rights. He said that he will not rule out future deportation flights with Britain.The expulsions have sparked widespread outcry on the part of human rights groups and opposition politicians, including Paris Mayor Bertrand Delanoe. The French rights group France Terre d'Asile has gathered thousands of signatures in a petition against deportation.Marie-Helene Senay, communications director for France Terre d'Asile, said she opposed the deporting of Afghans back to their country, which has been torn by conflict, even if they do not meet asylum requirements in France."We think the situation in Afghanistan does not [warrant] the return of Afghan people in good security. We know the situation over there is the worst we have ever known since 2001," she said. "We know there is still war everywhere, that the police and the security forces cannot maintain the country in a stable position. So we really wonder what kind of security we can [have] for the people we send back there."The French government, however, has argued that it is only trying to crack down on human smuggling rings and that illegal immigrants are given every legal recourse to remain in France. Immigration Minister Besson defended the decision, saying that "if France never sends people back, it becomes the target for people traffickers." He added that the three men put on the flight were from the Afghan capital of Kabul, "where there is no risk for them", and would be given monetary assistance to help them settle back into Afghanistan.Debate is underway in France over the possibility of forcing male sex offenders to be chemically castrated. Prime Minister François Fillon has confirmed the government is considering such a move.Chemical castration is different from physical castration in that it stops being effective if treatment is stopped, making it reversible. It works by using hormones and significantly reduces a target's libido.The move follows new measures Poland introduced in September to force some paedophiles to be castrated.  Germany, Belgium, and parts of the United States have similar laws, and France is among European countries such as Sweden that offer castration voluntarily to convicted sex offenders."Chemical castration exists today, it just depends on an agreement by the person concerned," said Fillon. "We have to look at how, as part of surveillance and control measures after someone leaves prison, we might make this more restrictive if necessary." He also told reporters that the government is "not ruling out any line of reflection on any subject" following a ministers' meeting on crime prevention. He said castration may be made "more obligatory".The debate was triggered by last week's slaying of Marie-Christine Hodeau, who called police to say she had been shut in the back of a car and told them its manufacturer and registration number before being cut off. A manhunt began and a suspect was quickly arrested, but Hodeau was already dead. Her killer confessed to strangling her and led police to her body.It later emerged that the same man had earlier been imprisoned for the abduction and rape of a thirteen-year-old girl. After serving his sentence, he had returned to live in the same village as the girl he had raped.The possibility has been met with both approval and opposition from French politicians. The ruling UMP's spokesman had already asked for the measures, and they were also sought by Justice Minister Michele Alliot-Marie, although she wanted castration to remain voluntary despite tougher laws surrounding it. However, socialist opposition spokesman Benoît Hamon described forced castration as a "deplorable" and "indecent" scheme that might breach international legislation.French authorities suspect a serial killer may be responsible for a recent string of shooting deaths.  At present, four people have been murdered in the Paris suburb of Essonne in the past six months.  Although a suspect was apprehended in November after the first shooting, three more incidents have occurred while the suspect remains in custody. The fourth victim, a 47-year-old woman, was shot in the head Thursday. The other three shooting occurred on November 27, February 22, and March 17.CNN affiliate BFM-TV reported that in relation to Thursday's killing, authorities are on the lookout for a blue-and-white Suzuki motorbike.On Friday, Prosecutor Marie-Suzanne Le Queau told reporters that ballistic tests indicate all four incidents involved the same 7.65mm handgun.  She also said there were 100 investigators on the case.Last month in France, Frenchman Mohamed Merah committed seven murders.  Merah, claiming inspiration from al-Qaeda, killed three Jewish schoolchildren, a rabbi in training, and three off-duty paratroopers before he was killed in a shootout with authorities.France yesterday became the first country in Europe to ban women from concealing their faces in public. Anyone wearing a face-concealing veil such as the Muslim niqāb or burqa in the country can, as of yesterday, be fined €150 and forced to attend citizenship classes.People found to have forced others to wear a veil can be sentenced to prison for up to two years. While France contains the largest Muslim population in Europe, only an estimated 2,000 women in the country wear the niqāb or burqa.The French government said the face-concealing veil does not match the French concept of equality and does not meet the standards of a shared, democratic society. Women found wearing a veil in public can now be taken to a police station and asked to remove the veil for identification, police have said.On Saturday police detained 59 people who protested the veil ban in a forbidden demonstration in the capital, Paris, 19 of the protesters were veiled women. Other European countries, including Belgium and the Netherlands, have also proposed similar bans, although they are yet to enforce them. Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden has called for terrorist attacks on France after claiming the country has gone to war against Islam.French police have today confirmed that they are holding five suspects in the December 11 Algiers bombings. The bombings killed at least 37 people, including 17 United Nations staff members.The men were arrested with three others, who have since been freed, in a raids on Tuesday in Paris and Rouen. They are believed to be part of the support network for Al-Qaeda Organization in the Islamic Maghreb (formerly Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat), which has claimed responsibility for the attack.The French government used a 1955 law to impose a state of emergency across France in an effort to quell the rioting that has wracked the country for the last 12 days.  French Prime Minster Dominique de Villepin today declared, "The republic is at an hour of truth." Curfews designed to restrict the movement of those that might engage in violence and rioting allow the government to imprison individuals for up to two months. The northern city of Amiens was one of the first to impose a curfew; unaccompanied youth in that city will be unable to walk the streets between midnight and 6:00 a.m.The 1955 law invoked by the cabinet Tuesday morning will allow local officials throughout the country to impose curfews. In French terminology, the government invoked the law through a presidential décret (decree), which corresponds to an executive order in American terminology. The law originates from the Algerian War and has never been used in Metropolitan France until now. Villepin said that more than 9,500 police have been called up to help bring the riots under control.Article 11 of the law permits censorship of all types of media (including theatre performances), if specifically authorized by a decree. The French government has so far not elected to use this possibility.In the last 12 days more than 5,000 cars have been set ablaze, and at least 1,500 have been arrested in what is the worst public violence in France since 1968.France is recalling the mission it recently sent to Colombia in hopes of freeing Íngrid Betancourt, who is a hostage of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC)."The French medical mission isn't appropriate and much less so when it's not the result of an agreement," a FARC statement said. "Ingrid Betancourt and soldiers and the jailed guerrillas would now have regained their freedom and it would be a victory for everyone," said the statement dated the day after the French team landed. The only condition would have been that Álvaro Uribe had agreed to a 45-day demilitarized zone, according to the statement.President Nicolas Sarkozy's office said in a statement that he is "deeply disappointed" he was unable to save Betancourt, who holds both French and Colombian citizenships."He wants to assure our compatriot's family — as well as those of all the hostages — that his determination to win their liberation remains as strong as ever," the statement continued.FARC has been seeking to exchange 39 high-profile hostages for some 500 rebels currently in Colombian prisons. Colombian President Álvaro Uribe has consistently rejected this trade. Recently, however, Colombia has promised to suspend military strikes against FARC in the regions where hostages are believed to be held.On Wednesday, Paris mayor Anne Hidalgo announced via Twitter that the rainbow-coloured crossings in the French capital are to be made permanent. This move comes after multiple vandalisations of rainbow-coloured crossroads during this year's Paris Pride.Hidalgo tweeted, saying, "Paris is a city of refuge that embraces Republican values of freedom, equality and fraternity. In order for these values to be recorded forever, the rainbow pedestrian crossings created for Gay Pride will be permanent!" ((fr))french language: ‍Paris est une ville refuge qui fait sienne les valeurs républicaines de liberté, d'égalité et de fraternité. Pour qu’elles s’inscrivent à jamais en ses murs, les passages piétons arc-en-ciel créés pour la #MarcheFesFiertés seront permanents !The crossings were installed on June 14, and later, they were vandalised with the words written "LGBT dictatorship" ((fr))French language: ‍"Dictature LGBT", "LGBT out of France" ((fr))French language: ‍"LGBT hors de France" and "Hidalgo go away" ((fr))French language: ‍"Hidalgo dégage". That time, Hidalgo said, "This act of homophobia won't go unpunished." ((fr))french language: ‍Cette homophobie ne restera pas impunie.After the vandalism, French politician Jean-Luc Romero said, "Anti-LGBTQI hatred struck at the heart of Paris. Our answer is Saturday when hundreds of thousands of people will parade for the Pride Walk!" This year's Paris Pride took place on June 30.UK comedian Freddie Starr was arrested today as part of the ongoing inquiries into sexual abuse offences being conducted following claims made about deceased BBC television presenter Jimmy Savile.Along with many allegations from many other women in the wider investigation, Karin Ward claims she was groped by Starr in the 1970s when she, then aged 14, attended a recording of Savile's television show 'Clunk Click'. Starr's is the second arrest following investigations into the claims made about Savile. The glam rock musician Gary Glitter, real name Paul Gadd, was arrested for questioning on Sunday. Glitter has gone to prison in the United Kingdom for downloading child pornography and in Vietnam for child sex offences.Freddie Starr has denied the accusations made against him and said he would welcome the chance to speak to the police.Oral evidence will be presented next week to an independent inquiry at the BBC into the decision to cancel a planned Newsnight story regarding Jimmy Savile allegations. The former head of Sky News, Nick Pollard, has been asked to see if the BBC handled the Newsnight investigation properly. Pollard's inquiry will also look into claims made in a blog post made in October by the editor of Newsnight, Peter Rippon. The post has attracted criticism from BBC journalists and has been edited with corrections a number of times since.The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) have written in support of the right of advocates against a referendum for a constitutional amendment that would ban gay marriage in Virginia to carry out political canvassing.Anti-solicitation ordinances were used as the basis to block three persons who canvassed a neighborhood to oppose the legislation, and they were subsequently ordered to leave the area.  The gay marriage ban they opposed is on the up-coming ballot for the mid-term election."The right of canvassers to enter onto private property to express their views is protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution," said Kent Willis of the ACLU. The First Amendment deals with the right to free speech.Homeowners can ask persons to leave their property, "but homeowners should not expect the police to remove canvassers from neighborhoods just because they find their presence irritating, or they don't like the content of their message."Police Chief Connie Novak appears to concur with this view and in an interview stated "If it's a matter of clarifying to my officers, I will certainly do that."The proposed amendments to the Electoral Finance Act have been passed into law, which critics call an attack on free speech. The law will come into effect on January 1, 2008 - the start of election year in New Zealand - after receiving royal assent by the Queen's representative in New Zealand, Governor-General Anand Satyanand.Under the new law, individuals or groups of New Zealanders will face restrictions on what they can say for or against a political party. Once an organisation has spent over NZ$12,000 (currently USD$9,080) on a campaign, they must register and then face what opponent John Boscawen describes as "draconian restrictions or requirements" including a limit of $120,000 ($USD 90,800). "At a time when political parties are free to spend millions and millions of dollars promoting their own views - both from their own money, and taxpayer's money.On its third and final reading, the new Act had 63 votes for, 57 against. National Party, Māori, ACT, UnitedFuture and independent Taito Phillip Field voted against, with Labour, Greens, New Zealand First and Progressive voting for.Justice Minister, Annette King, dismisses the claims by opponents who claim that free speech will be stifled. She says that it only restricts speech that has been paid for, not free speech.Invercargill Mayor Tim Shadbolt faces a conviction under the new law because of a campaign  he is spearheading against the Government over tertiary funding cuts. However, Mr Shadbolt says that he is not worried about possibly breaking the law, "Well I’ve been to jail twice before, I’ve spent five years  in periodic detention centres, I’ve been arrested 33 times I’m not likely to be intimidated at this stage of my life."National leader John Key said, "So Tim will be in breach of the law and there is every chance that he will go to jail for two years or face a fine of $40,000...."The owner of TV3 and the music channel C4, has made an unprecedented move by winning an interim injunction against New Zealand's monopolistic pay television operator, Sky Network Television over their amount of content screened of the Rugby World Cup. TV3, the official RWC television broadcaster for New Zealand, described Sky's actions as illegal and unethical.MediaWorks, which runs TVWorks and RadioWorks, filed the injunction against Sky in Auckland's High Court today saying it breached fair dealing practices over its use of Rugby World Cup footage. Sky is now temporarily banned from screening TV3's WRC footage on The Cup, Rugby Highlights (channel) and Sport 365 Highlights.An agreement between MediaWorks and other broadcasters, including Sky, was signed allowing content to be used for news purposes, but state Sky breached the agreement and used content of which it had no right to.Bill Ralston, former head of news and current affairs at TVNZ (Television New Zealand), said when they had 2003 Rugby World Cup rights, "TV3 pushed the boundary by taking a bit more than they should." The three networks usually pushed the rules but the boundaries were relaxed. "Simply because Sky controls so many sports rights themselves, you can normally get a good quid pro quo out of them. You relax a bit, they relax a bit."The TVWorks Chief Operating Officer said, "We are simply acting to protect our interests, and the interests of the viewing public." Rick Friesen said, "We believe Sky’s behaviour to be unethical and illegal, and we will be taking whatever action we can to protect the interests of ourselves and every Rugby fan in New Zealand."An undisclosed amount of money was paid to secure the rights to screen footage, beating TVNZ and Sky. It has been rumoured the cost is to be in the millions of dollars (NZ$).Sky is yet to make a comment on this action.A full hearing on the injunction will occur on Friday.MediaWorks has won their suit against the only pay television operator in New Zealand, Sky Network Television. The injunction was first filed due to Sky broadcasting too much coverage of the Rugby World Cup, which TV3, owned by MediaWorks, has the exclusive television rights to in New Zealand.A temporary injunction was issued on September 12 and a full hearing took place that Friday. However, the Judge, Justice Helen Winkelmann, reserved her decision and released it this morning.The Auckland High Court injunction will prohibit footage being used on Sky programmes The Cup, and Reunion. Sky-owned free-to-air channel, Prime Television, is also prohibited from using footage for The Crowd Goes Wild. These shows were described as being in a magazine style, and not in a news and current affairs format.TV3 does have an agreement with Sky, as well as with TVNZ (Television New Zealand), which allows use of it's footage for "hard news programmes", but not on niche or magazine styles shows.On the news format shows, only three screenings spaced three hours apart each day will be allowed. John Fellet, chief executive of Sky, said that broadcasting will continue as normal for it's news shows, such as Sport 365. Sky Sport 1, Sky Sport 2, Sky Sport 3, and SKY Sports Highlights will be counted as one channel for the total allowable screening time.Rick Friesen, chief operating officer of MediaWorks, said, "The judge has clearly understood all the issues in this case and upheld TV3's right to protect its interests, expanding significantly upon the temporary order issued last week."Sky have stated that they will now crack down on TV3's use of their footage. Sky has the rights to most sports, including the Super 14, Tri-Nations, and more. Fellet said, "It looks like in the longer term we have won, one way of the other. ...We will now reciprocate by closely scrutinising MediaWorks' use of Sky footage."At a press conference held Wednesday in Paris, France, Iranian-American journalist Roxana Saberi called on Iran to release Silva Harotonian, an Iranian citizen working for a United States aid agency. Saberi was jailed in Iran on charges of spying, and prior to her release shared a cell with Harotonian.Harotonian  was working on a healthcare project for the organization International Research and Exchanges Board (IREX). She was convicted of attempting to initiate a revolution, and received a sentence in January of three years in jail."By arresting people like her, certain hardliners have created an atmosphere of fear within Iranian society that anyone who has practically any contact with foreigners... would be accused of acting against national security," said Saberi at the press conference. She spoke of Harotonian, saying "She gave me a lot of strength." Saberi was joined in her efforts on behalf of her former cellmate by International Federation for the League of Human Rights president Karim Lahidji, International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran coordinator Hadi Ghaemi, and IREX president Robert Pearson.Saberi has dual-citizenship as an Iranian-American, and she grew up in Fargo, North Dakota. She lived in Iran for six years while working as a journalist for news media organizations including the BBC. On January 31, four members of the Ministry of Intelligence and National Security of Iran took her from her home to face charges of spying for the United States. She was convicted and sentenced to eight years in jail, however this was reduced to a suspended sentence of two years. After returning to the United States, Saberi met with U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.An appeals court in Eastern France has confirmed the Swedish car manufacturer Volvo is guilty over the deaths of two schoolchildren aged nine and ten and the serious injury of a third after a brakes failure caused an accident in 1999.The Volvo 850 TDI was being driven by a local teacher when it struck the children, who had been on their way to school. Driver Catherine Kohtz later asserted that the brake pedal had become stiff and the brakes themselves unresponsive as she traveled along the steep road.Expert examination of the vehicle after the crash confirmed that the braking system was flawed. Volvo had known there was a potential issue with the brakes but had not issued a recall of the affected cars for modifications.The court confirmed Volvo should pay a 200,000 euro fine. The court also confirmed that Kohtz should pay a 300 euro fine and receive a six-month suspended sentence and temporary revocation of her driving license for failure to control the Volvo.The ruling also said that two French national papers should cover the decision.French military commandos boarded a ferry boat on Wednesday morning that had been taken over by ferry company strikers from the Société nationale Corse-Méditerranée (SNCM). The strike erupted after the French government announced its intention to privatize the company, which had been losing money for decades. The strikers seem to belong to the Corsican workers' union, a trade union close to Corsican nationalists.The strikers captured the ship, called Pascal-Paoli, in Marseille. They sailed her to Bastia where she was intercepted by a ship of the Marine Nationale and boarded by special forces. The military team included members of the GIGN (the French Gendarmerie's rescue and anti-terror unit) and, according to some sources, naval special forces. The prosecutor's office at Marseille has opened a criminal enquiry for "evident crime", with the charge of piracy — a crime which, according to article L224-6 of the French Penal Code, is punished by a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. If the charges are retained, the initiators of the event will face a jury trial before an assize court. There are, however, questions as to whether this criminal qualification applies in this case, since the strikers did not resort to violence in stealing the ship.The strikers are in protest against the French government's intention to sell SNCM to the investment fund Butler Capital Partners, led by businessman Walter Butler. Mr Butler claims that he can put SNCM back into financial shape within 4 years. Opponents of the privatization plan contend that the sale price is an amount greatly inferior to what it is worth, even if only for its assets.The French government has had significant problems with money-losing state-owned companies in the past. SNCM is, however, a special case, due to the delicate political situation in Corsica. By comparison, the private company Corsica Ferries is in good financial shape. Some sympathetic protesters, however, caused damage to Corsica Ferries offices.After brokering a deal between record companies, film corporations, internet firms and itself, the French government has unveiled a new anti-piracy body formed to counter what President Nicolas Sarkozy has described as the growing use of the internet as a "lawless zone where outlaws can pillage works with abandon or, worse, trade in them in total impunity".Internet service providers will be forced to monitor the activities of their clients, and will restrict access for users known to be partaking in file sharing of selected media. In some cases, ISPs will be instructed to either cut off internet access entirely or threaten to do so.The French consumer group UFC Que Choisir criticised the deal as being "very tough, potentially destructive of freedom, anti-economic and against digital history".Film companies have agreed to hasten the cinema-to-DVD process as part of their obligations under the deal, and record companies have indicated future support for the sale of Digital Rights Management-free media in their stores.The body will be supervised by a judge.A journalist for the French Daily Libération, Christophe Boltanski, was attacked on Friday by several men in a street of Tunis, where he was reporting on the repression of human rights activists.He was badly beaten and stabbed with a knife in the back by four unidentified assailants near his hotel in the embassy district. Boltanski was also hit in the face by pepper spray. He called for help, but the policemen on guard outside the nearby Czech Embassy did not react, according to Libération. Boltanski filed a complaint on Saturday morning before returning to Paris. Libération and Reporters without Borders suspect this attack was a deliberate act of intimidation decided by the Tunisian regime. According to a United Press International report, Tunisian authorities arrested two men Saturday on suspicion of assaulting Boltanski.French news website Mediapart has published a document it says shows the late Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi pledged French President Nicolas Sarkozy €50 million (£42 million) to fund his 2007 election campaign.Sarkozy, who gained power in that election, is now fighting a reelection bid but lagging behind socialist opposition leader Francois Hollande in opinion polls. A run-off election is scheduled for May 6.Had the deal gone ahead it would have breached French law, which bans political donations of such magnitude. Although the Arabic document, apparently signed by Libya's then-foreign intelligence head Mussa Kussa, dates to 2006 and does not indicate any cash was actually handed over, some reports claim money was laundered via Panama and Switzerland.Sarkozy spokeswoman Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet said the claims were "ridiculous" and invented by Hollande supporters. She said Sarkozy's election finances were vetted at the time. Hollande spokesman Bernard Cazeneuve said Sarkozy must now "explain himself to the French in the face of such serious elements backed up by new documents emanating from the entourage of the Libyan dictator himself."It is not the first time such allegations have been made. As France backed an uprising which ultimately toppled Gaddafi, the Libyan ruler's son Seif al-Islam last year made the same claim. Mediapart in March published allegations from a doctor who used to treat a local arms dealer, who said his patient had organised such a donation. Sarkozy himself said the suggestion was "grotesque".The newly-released document states as present Libya's head of African investment, Bashir Saleh; Sarkozy ally Brice Hortefeux; Libyan intelligence chief Abdullah Senussi; and arms dealer Ziad Takieddine. It is dated October 6, 2006 and discusses an "agreement in principle to support the campaign for the candidate for the presidential elections, Nicolas Sarkozy, for a sum equivalent to €50 million."Hortefeux has denied ever meeting Kussa or Saleh. Mediapart is a respected left-wing investigative website. It is generally viewed as opposing Sarkozy's right-wing regime. It claims money was laundered via accounts including one in the name of Sarkozy's political party's head's sister, and says governmental briefing notes indicate regular funding trips to and from Libya. Mediapart says its sources are "former senior officials now in hiding."When al-Islam first made his claims, he said "Sarkozy must first give back the money he took from Libya to finance his electoral campaign. We funded it and we have all the details and are ready to reveal everything." Sarkozy was dismissive when interviewed this year on TF1, saying "I am sorry to see you in the role of a spokeswoman for Gaddafi’s son, frankly I've known you in better roles... I am sorry that I am being interrogated about declarations of Gaddafi or his son on an important channel like TF1. When one quotes Mr Gaddafi, who is dead, his son, who has blood on his hands, that is a regime of dictators, assassins, whose credibility is zero... frankly, I think we have sunk low enough in the political debate."An investigation is already ongoing into Takieddine. Takieddine is accused of illegally financing Edouard Balladur in an unsuccessful presidential bid in 1995.  Sarkozy, who was spokesman for that campaign, denies wrongdoing in relation to it. It is suspected Balladur received kickback bribes from Pakistan in a submarine sale. Investigators believe eleven French engineers were killed in a bomb attack orchestrated as Pakistani revenge revenge for bribe non-payment.Kosciusko-Morizet suggests Hollande's supporters arranged the new claims to coincide with allegations made by former International Monetary Fund head Dominique Strauss-Kahn. Strauss-Kahn fell from favour after a well-publicised sexual encounter with a hotel maid in the US and last week claimed Sarkozy arranged for allegations to be made in order to prevent Strauss-Kahn running against him for president."If he had financed it, I wasn’t very grateful," Sarkozy said previously about the allegations. France played an active role in Gaddafi's downfall last year, providing military support to a NATO mission against the Libyan ruler.The French National Assembly is to adopt a bill, known as DADVSI (« Droits d'Auteurs et Droits Voisins de la Société de l'Information », "author's right and related rights in the information society"), tomorrow. This bill reforms the French code of intellectual property (CPI) and other laws, mostly in order to implement the 2001 European directive on copyright.The directive mandates legal protections of Digital rights management (DRM) measures against circumvention. DRMs are "digital locks" that prevent users from freely copying or playing contents, in order to enforce the copyright of the authors, artists, publishers and producers. The initial draft of the bill, proposed by Minister of Culture Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres, made circumvention of DRMs, or even facilitation thereof, a felony (délit), with a maximal penalty of 3 years in prison and/or a €300,000 fine as with counterfeiting. Since DRMs, circumvention and facilitations were not legally defined, it was feared that the law would effectively prevent competitors from creating players, especially based on free software, compatible with major systems such as Apple's iPod or Microsoft's Windows Media Player — or even to prevent the creation of any free software capable of loading files with DRM capabilities, that is, potentially most future text, audio or video file formats.The initial draft also conserved the threat of a counterfeiting felony conviction for those exchanging copyrighted files on the Internet. This was judged to be unfairly repressive and unrealistic. In France, it is commonplace for Internet users to have broadband up to 16 megabits per second in cheaply priced (€30 a month or lower) ADSL packages, often comprising VoIP phone and television ; millions of users, especially the young, are believed to use peer-to-peer file sharing software. Lawmakers, from both the majority UMP party and the opposition, found it unwise to turn millions of citizens into potential felons. As a consequence, the Minister proposed a "gradual" scheme where mere downloading of one file would be punishable by a €38 fine, which was adopted as an amendment. It remains to be seen how the law will be enforced.With respects to DRMs, lawmakers from both the majority UMP party, the centrist Union for French democracy and the opposition adopted amendments that make it compulsory for publishers of DRM-encumbered content to give the specifications to whomever would like to implement a compatible player. This proposal was decried by some US news sources as targeting Apple Computer's iTunes system, tied to the iPod players. It is yet unknown, though, if these amendments would apply to companies that choose not to claim the new special protection awarded to DRMs by the law, which enable them to sue those who implement software meant to circumvent their protections.Lawmakers also expressed concerns that the proposed law would weaken existing legal exceptions to copyright, especially the right for users to make copies of copyrighted files for private use (CPI L122-5).The lawmaking process was quite a bumpy one. In December, lawmakers adopted a surprise amendment that would legalize peer-to-peer sharing as "private copy", much to the dismay of the Minister of Culture. The amendment, proposed by a bipartisan coalition of majority UMP and opposition lawmakers, was the first in a series that would have established a system known as the "global license" through which Internet users would have paid a flat fee in exchange for an authorization to use peer-to-peer services. The fees collected would be redistributed to authors and performers. In March, the Minister tried to withdraw article 1 of the law, which was the one that was amended to his dislike, but the next day he had to reintroduce it because withdrawing it may have been unconstitutional. The Assembly then voted the article down and adopted an Article 1 "bis", essentially an amended version of article 1 without the legalization of peer-to-peer sharing.The law, initially presented as an uncontroversial, technical text, soon became a hot topic. Some lawmakers, both from the opposition and the majority, decried intense lobbying by the entertainment industry. Some amendments were nicknamed the "Vivendi Universal amendment", from the name of a major entertainment company that some lawmakers and commentators claim has inspired them. UMP lawmakers such as Bernard Carayon denounced pressures and even blackmail from some powerful lobbies.The Assembly will very probably adopt the bill on March 21, despite the opposition of some UMP, UDF and opposition lawmakers. The bill will then be sent to the French Senate for further amendment and approval. Since the government declared the bill to be urgent, it is probably that after examination by the Senate, the bill will be sent to a mixed Assembly/Senate commission for harmonization, then finally voted. Given that some UMP and opposition lawmakers have voiced concerns about the constitutionality of some episodes of the lawmaking process, it is likely that the bill will get sent to the Constitutional Council for constitutional review. Finally, president Jacques Chirac is likely to sign it into law.The French Parliament passed a law extending the state of emergency decreed on November 8 by president Jacques Chirac for a duration of 3 months, the executive being authorized to terminate this period earlier if necessary. The November 8 decision, based on a 1955 statute, could last for a maximum of 12 days only, after which Parliament had to vote on an extension.The state of emergency allows local authorities (prefects) to prohibit public meetings and regulate movements of persons, including curfews. In addition, in certain zones specified by the executive, where riots have recently taken place, local authorities may close meeting halls or bars; detain firearms; and authorize searches inside habitations during the day or the night by administrative order (normally, searches during formal criminal investigations have to be authorized by a judge). The government said that it will not use the power to regulate the media, and that searches will be subject to supervision by the judiciary.The law was defended by Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, in charge of law enforcement. Sarkozy spoke before the French National Assembly (which approved the text on November 15) and the French Senate (which approved it on November 16); he defended the actions of the government and explained why, in his opinion, the law had to be voted. Sarkozy is also the head of the UMP party, which holds a majority in both houses, and there was no doubt that the text would be approved.Sarkozy added that in the forthcoming months, CRS (riot division of the Police) and Gendarmerie mobile forces would operate daily in difficult suburbs as a "proximity police". He contended that the "proximity police" established by preceding left-wing government was too much concerned with social activities and not enough about arresting criminals. Sarkozy has also contended that some of the riots were orchestrated by drug traffickers, gangsters and other criminals in order to secure lawless zones.The French Socialist Party opposed the law, claiming it was excessive. Some left-wing members of parliament contended that using a law passed in 1955 to help quashing Algerian independence movements against children of Algerian immigrants was somewhat insensitive and unsuccessfully proposed an amendment to repeal the 1955 law. On the other hand, right-wing anti-immigrant politician Philippe de Villiers has contended that the government was far too soft and called for the use of military force. Jean-Marie Le Pen, a longtime opponent of immigration from poor, Muslim countries, pointed out that the events vindicated what he had long said.Members of Sarkozy's UMP party blamed the de facto polygamy of some African immigrants for the failure of their families to raise and educate children properly. They suggested a more restrictive approach to immigration.Nicolas Sarkozy is a probable contender for the 2007 presidential election. According to polls, his approval rate jumped by +11 to 63% during the events; he leads the approval opinions for presidential candidates.One day after France began enforcing a ban on the public wearing Islamic veils that cover the face, either a niqāb or a burqa, French police briefly detained two veiled women. The police later claimed that the women were arrested for taking part in an unauthorized protest, not because they were wearing veils.The new law is hotly debated. The women were arrested while outside the famed Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris, and may now face fines of up to $217 (150 euros), community service and/or a citizenship course under the law.While the ban covers the burqa and the niqāb, it does not include the hijab or the chador. The hijab is a veil that leaves the face visible while covering the hair and neck, and the chador covers only the body.The law has stirred much debate, both in France and around the globe. Those who oppose the new law say it limits freedom of speech and freedom of religion, while supporters claim that women are degraded by wearing veils and the law is intended to empower those women, as well as increase public security.The French government, in defense of the ban, said that it was necessary because wearing veils falls short of the living standards in France and and makes women be of an lower status in a country where everybody is considered equal.French Prime Minister Francois Fillon has said that the ban is consistent with the national values of France. "The French Republic lives in a bare-headed fashion," he said in a statement published by a government newspaper.The French government previously made efforts to accommodate Muslims in the country, including establishing a council dealing with the presence of Islam; however, according to Amer Sahar, a professor who studies the topic, some Muslims in the country say that they feel as though they are under assault by the government. She said that some are "resentful of the fact that they are not allowed to be both Muslim and French."The French government is also concerned with women and children who are forced to veil themselves. It has said that such an action is "a new form of enslavement that the republic cannot accept on its soil." There is a fine of 30,000 euros (about $43,300) and a year in prison for forcing an adult to wear the niqāb or burqa. The fine is doubled for forcing a minor to wear the veils.Activist Rachid Nekkaz auctioned one of his homes to provide money to pay the fine for any woman arrested under the law. "I would like to send a clear message to President Nicolas Sarkozy that we can do what we want. We have rules. We have a constitution and everyone has to respect it," he said.According to the French Constitutional Council, the law "conforms to the Constitution" because it does not limit the freedom of religion or excessively punish people for exercising that right in a place of worship.The Prefect of Police of Paris has banned public meetings in Paris, fearing violence in the French capital this holiday weekend, which marks the 87th anniversary of the end of World War I. Police remained on alert throughout the weekend, with some 12,000 security officers deployed around the country.After more than a fortnight of civil unrest in France, police imposed the temporary public meeting ban in response to Internet and text messages calling for violent action in the French capital. The government has declared a state of emergency in Paris and 30 other areas to help quell the unrest.Today, Sunday 13 November, French authorities have reported less urban violence - despite fears of a rampage that prompted thousands of police to fan out at high-profile targets such as the Eiffel Tower. Across the country, the situation appears calmer. Rioting, car-burnings and arson attacks appear to be waning. Nationwide, 374 cars were torched on Saturday night, down from 502 on the evening of November 11, police said today. About 100 vehicles go up in flames in France on a typical Saturday night.National Police Chief Michel said there had been a "major lull" in the rioting on the 17th night of urban violence. If the calm continues, "things could return to normal very quickly," he said at a news conference on Sunday. Night curfews are still in force in several areas. Mr Gaudin said there was a "downward trend" in the incidence of violence "with some resistance in the Paris region. This weekend we will exercise extra vigilance in the Paris region." On Thursday, President Jacques Chirac acknowledged that France had "undeniable problems" in poor city areas and must respond effectively. "Whatever our origins we are all the children of the Republic and we can all expect the same rights," he said.Surveillance has been stepped up on suburban transport, petrol sales in small quantities have also been banned. Mr Chirac defended his use of state-of-emergency legislation, and said the priority was still to restore order. The state of emergency, adopted on Wednesday and renewable after 12 days, allows French authorities to impose curfews in designated areas, ban public meetings, search for weapons without a warrant and issue house-arrest orders.Some 7,500 cars and dozens of buildings including schools and businesses have been torched since the violence began. 2,350 people have been arrested and 358 have recieived prison sentences.The recent unrest erupted on October 27 following the deaths of two teenagers electrocuted while hiding from police in an electrical sub-station.French police said on Monday they have smashed an Islamist terrorism ring in Paris. Between 20 and 30 people were arrested in the Paris region following an investigation into the funding of Islamist extremists. Police described Monday's events as a "major operation aimed at disbanding an Islamist network linked to terrorism".Among those arrested in a string of dawn raids were individuals linked to previous terrorism investigations and common crime, the police statement said. Those detained remained in custody and police were searching a number of premises and Internet cafes. The suspects were under surveillance for several weeks and were detained after evidence emerged that "violent actions" were being planned.Those arrested are suspected of staging armed robberies to finance radical Islamist causes. French investigators were reportedly "convinced" those arrested intended to stage violent acts on French territory, a French radio station reported.Some 20 suspects were arrested before dawn in five different regions. Others were arrested several hours later around suburban Paris. The raids were carried out by the domestic intelligence service, DST, detectives from France's organised crime unit and members of the RAID crack intervention squad.France has been on red alert, the second highest security level, since the suicide bomb attacks on London transport on July 7.Counter-terrorism police in France are searching for 28 kg (~61 lbs) of the plastic explosive Semtex and detonators that have gone missing.The explosives were discovered to be missing on Friday, but could have left the facility up to a week ago. They were stored at a site in Corbas, near Lyon in east-central France, which disposes of left-over munitions from the two world wars.The Minister of the Interior, Michèle Alliot-Marie said that the incident was due to "known failings within the site's own security." She added that the director of the site, which was originally a 19th century fort, has been "immediately suspended.""A theft of explosives used by bomb disposal experts to destroy munitions retrieved from former battlefields has taken place on a site adjacent to the supply depot," read a statement from the ministry, officially calling it a theft."The presence of explosives in this site is normal, but the investigation has to find out how they could have been stolen," an unnamed source told Agence France-Presse.Semtex was invented in 1966 and is a malleable plastic explosive. It is noted for being odorless and notorious for its involvement in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing in 1988.24-year-old Clotilde Reiss, a French teaching assistant who had been detained in Iran for ten months, returned to France Sunday.Iranian officials arrested Reiss as she was about to leave the country on July 1, 2009. The arrest came after she had attended a protest regarding the country's elections, with the officials calling her a foreign spy. Reiss was in Iran for a five-month teaching position in Isfahan, and was later sent from Tehran's Evin Prison to the French Embassy on bail. During the trial, which included over 100 others thought to be trying to cause a coup, she pleaded not guilty and said that she only went to the protest because she was curious. Reiss was originally given two five-year sentences of jail time for spying and provoking unrest, but the sentence was reduced to a 300 billion IRR fine, or about USD300,000. Reiss' lawyer said that the money was given on Saturday, freeing the young academic.Reiss landed at Vélizy – Villacoublay Air Base Sunday afternoon. She met French President Nicolas Sarkozy at the Élysée Palace in Paris shortly after. Sarkozy later released a statement thanking the presidents of Brazil, Senegal, and Syria for aiding in Reiss' return, but did not elaborate on the role each played.The governments of both France and Iran have denied rumors that Reiss' freedom was part of a deal involving two Iranians in France. One of the two, Majid Kakavand, was released a couple of weeks ago after France refused on May 5 to extradite him to the U.S. The other, Ali Vakili Rad, will likely receive parole and return to Iran later today. Kakavand had supposedly tried to give U.S. goods to the Iranian military, while Rad was responsible for the assassination of former Iranian Prime Minister Shahpour Bakhtiar in 1991.Sources related to the French investigation examining the causes of the late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat's death, told French news media Tuesday that the experts state Arafat had not been poisoned. This conclusion rejects a statement by a Swiss research institute, claiming unusual amounts of polonium found in the samples taken from Arafat's body in November 2012 indicate moderate feasibility he was poisoned. Through the years many Palestinians have blamed Israel poisoning Arafat. Mr. Yigal Palmor, Israeli foreign ministry spokesman, said the French findings were "not a surprise" and "Israel is not involved in any way. There's no way the Palestinians can stick this on us. It's unreasonable and unsupported by facts. We will see yet another round of accusations, but there's no proof."The head of the team investigating the causes of Arafat's death from the Palestinian authority, Tawfiq Tirawi, was interviewed on Tuesday on Palestine Today television and said "I promise that the next press conference will be the last, and will cast into the light of day everyone who perpetrated, took part in or conspired in the matter".Yasser Arafat led the Palestine Liberation Organization for 35 years and was the first president of the Palestinian Authority. In October 2004 at the age of 75 the Palestinian leader's condition suddenly deteriorated. He was moved from his residence in Ramallah, in the West Bank, to a French military hospital for medical care. Arafat died at the hospital in November 2004. The official death report stated a stroke, caused by blood disorder, was the cause of death. The doctors didn't find the cause of the blood disorder. Arafat's widow, Mrs. Suha Arafat, didn't want an autopsy of his body.In July 2012, a documentary program aired on the Al Jazeera network showing the findings of Swiss scientists who speculated Arafat died from polonium poisoning, after traces of this material were found in his belongings. By his wife's request, 60 samples were taken from his body to three research institutes — in France, Switzerland, and Russia — to examine for the cause of death. Also, Mrs. Arafat filed a civil complaint in France leading to an investigation by the French prosecutor.French prosecutors confirmed on Thursday that nursing assistant Dominique Cottrez killed her eight newborn infants and buried their remains.  Prosecutors called the case "non-standard... given the large number of newborns."According to prosecutors, Cottrez, in her 40s, is heavy-set and she was able to hide her eight pregnancies. Cottrez did not want to visit a doctor for contraceptives nor did she want more children.Cottrez admitted to strangling eight infants and hiding the remains in garbage bags. The killings occurred over a time span of several years, from 1989 to 2006 or 2007. Prosecutors charged her with "deliberate homicides of minors under the age of 15," which could cause Cottrez to serve a life sentence in prison.New homeowners of the Cottrez's former house discovered bags with the remains of two infants. Investigators discovered an additional six children in the Cottrez's house in Villers-au-Tertre.Cottrez's husband, Pierre-Marie Cottrez, was unaware of the killings.In a narrative verdict, the Coroner investigating the death of UK soldier Lance Corporal Matty Hull, who was killed in a friendly fire incident in Iraq on 28 March 2003, has ruled that his killing was unlawful.L.Cpl Hull, who was from the Household Cavalry, died inside his blazing Scimitar tank when it was attacked 25 miles north of Basra by a US "tankbuster" aircraft. Four other soldiers were injured in the incident. Video footage from the cockpit of the aircraft was shown privately to his family during the inquest.The US authorities were uncooperative throughout the proceedings and refused to give evidence, only allowing the cockpit footage to be shown after it had been leaked to a British tabloid newspaper.Friendly fire between two groups of police officers killed five on Saturday night in Knyazhychi, Ukraine.Police had aimed to arrest suspects accused of robbery in Kiev and the surrounding area. A surveillance unit staking out a building placed two undercover officers in an empty, partially-constructed building next door. When an alarm in the empty building summoned regular police, the two undercover officers were mistaken for burglars and detained.Surveillance officers saw their colleagues being loaded into a van and, evidently fearing the robbery gang was taking them hostage, attempted to rescue them by force.  Shots were exchanged. The three nearby robbery suspects heard the gun battle and fled; they were arrested in Kiev. The trio were armed and face charges.The dead are two undercover officers, two regular officers of the state security force, and one member of the special-forces surveillance unit. President Petro Poroshenko has been briefed by a senior police officer. Khatia Dekanoidze, ex-head of the nation's police, said it was a "heartbreaking tragedy".Google has confirmed that it has "received formal notification," that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is investigating its business practices. The acknowledgment was posted on the internet search engine company's  blog  Friday. Google said it was unclear about the nature of the probe.A broad FTC investigation would cause the company be tied up in defending itself for years, and according to Bloomberg, might well  be the government’s biggest antitrust case since the Microsoft probe. The FTC will likely launch an  anti-trust investigation, as the company has been the target of many past smaller ones, according to CNN. Mercury News reported Friday  morning that the FTC review will probably focus on whether Google is using  its dominance in the internet search business to  promote its own products and services.  Google's rivals say  Google unfairly profits from its monopoly in the search engine business by using its search services to point users of its internet search engine to its own sites and services while hiding links to its competitors. The FCC probe  is expected to determine if Google abuses it market dominance to promote moneymaking online marketing, such as  its  mapping, comparison shopping and travel services. According to CNN, "Google dominates search in the United States, controlling about two-thirds of the market, according to comScore. It also licenses the world's largest smartphone operating system, and its share of U.S. display advertising revenue recently eclipsed long-time leader Yahoo."Google's response is that most complaints of anticompetitive behavior come from companies who are displeased with their ranking in Google's search engine. However, Joshua Wright, law professor at George Mason University said  the FTC will be looking at possible  harm to users and not complaints by  Google’s competitors. Melissa Maxman, co-chair of a Washington-based, antitrust practice group, said the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection unit will almost certainly be involved to see if Google deceives search engine users by screening search results to profit its own services. She said she would be "shocked" if the consumer protection unit was not involved.  Google Fellow Amit Singhal said in the post, "We respect the FTC's process and will be working with them (as we have with other agencies) over the coming months to answer questions about Google and our services." But Singhal acknowledged, "It's still unclear exactly what the FTC's concerns are, but we're clear about where we stand. Since the beginning, we have been guided by the idea that, if we focus on the user, all else will follow." Bloomberg reported Friday: "Google has set aside $500 million for a U.S. government investigation into online pharmacy ads the company accepted that may have violated the law."Google's efforts to improve privacy policies after last years' determination that its social-networking service Google Buzz used deceptive tactics, are currently being overseen by the FTC.A fugitive wanted in connection with a robbery that left a man dead in a Pennsylvania motel parking lot was arrested Friday after evading authorities for more than two months.Myles Alexander White, 21, was arrested without incident in Long Island and is awaiting extradition to Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania, where he is accused of killing 22-year-old Blake Natal.Natal, of Tobyhanna, was found dead on January 15 in the parking lot of a Quality Inn with his face and hands bloody.Ralph Maldonado, 33, was already charged earlier this year with robbing and killing Natal with a sleeper hold after choosing someone at random to steal from. Maldonado, of Scranton, had previously said he committed the robbery with another man who had a handgun.The Stroud Area Regional Police of Stroudsburg obtained an arrest warrant for White after receiving tips from confidential informants, combined with information from credit card and cell phone records. Upon learning White was in in Moriches, New York, the department sought help from Suffolk County authorities and the U.S. Marshals Service in arresting him. White faces charges of criminal homicide, conspiracy, robbery and other related counts.Hours after the killing, Maldonado's mother, Sonia, and his girlfriend Venus Linian, used a credit card stolen from Natal. Linan, 28, and Sonia Maldonado, 50, have previously been charged with forgery, conspiracy, receiving stolen property and credit card fraud.Two Cuban military deserters made a failed attempt to skyjack a Spanish Hola Airlines Boeing 737, leased by Cubana Airlines and headed for Venezuela. An unarmed military officer was killed in the process.The two soldiers, Leandro Cerezo Sirut and Alain Forbus Lameru, both 19 years old, took over a local bus and then drove it to the airport and onto the tarmac in an attempt to hijack a plane. Once on the plane, they attempted to take the officer hostage and when they tried to do so, the officer fought back and foiled the hijacking. The soldiers were attempting to flee Cuba and head for the United States.A statement by Cuba's Interior Ministry praised the officer's action: "Despite being unarmed, he heroically tried to prevent the commission of the terrorist act. Effective and coordinated action allowed security forces to frustrate the kidnappers' plans and save the lives of the other hostages," and also blamed the U.S. for the hijacking attempt."The responsibility for these new crimes lies with the highest-ranking authorities of the United States, adding to the long list of terrorist acts that Cuba has been the victim of for nearly half a century," added the statement.Both of the soldiers, along with a third soldier, Yoan Torres Martinez, 21, were arrested. All three are believed to have escaped from the military base, causing a shootout which killed one soldier and injured at least one other, in which they were stationed.Several passengers were on the bus, but no one was hurt. There were no crew or additional passengers on the plane at the time it was boarded.News networks quickly picked up footage of Tigger punching a guest at Walt Disney World. The Monaco family claims that the costume character hit their son in the face unprovoked. He went to the hospital that night, to get medication for "neck pain".The full home video of Tigger punching has now surfaced on YouTube, providing a unique context to the incident.News outlets, on the other hand, were only provided with a four second clip of the footage, which seems to have been edited to back up the Monaco family's claims.In the full footage, edited to include commentary, the blogger transcribes the voices of Jerry Monaco Junior and Senior, as Jerry Sr. videotapes the ground.Sr: Go for it.Jr: Ready?Sr: Here we go. Sorry Tig. My bad man. Aw, too much? Heh. Sorry buddy. Oh yeah, I was on your head. Sorry about that.Adult female voice: Jerry get over here.Sr: (unintelligible) No crowding Tigger, man.(Tigger punches, and Jerry Jr. reacts by returning the motion.)Sr: Jerry! Jerry!He comments that "it sounds like Jerry [Jr.] laughs, and then his arm goes down a bit", in order to undo the zipper on the back of Tigger's costume, before his punch is thrown."Now the question to ask is are the father and son game players? I mean, the father says, 'oh yeah, I was on your head.'"The blogger comments that he notices "Jerry's pretty quick to hit Tigger back on the head... I mean if Tigger's hitting him out of the blue, he's reacting pretty fast in hitting Tigger."Representative Press is a blog that aims for media reform.A hearse driver in County Donegal, Ireland was pulled over while leading a funeral procession, in a police crackdown on speeding. John Carr was clocked driving at 69 km/h (43 miles/hour) in a 50km/h zone and fined 80 euro and 2 penalty points were added to his driving record.Carr, as well as other drivers in the cortege, were among hundreds of drivers caught speeding in the area. Irish police have said if the fines are not paid the drivers will face prosecution. Carr intends to pay the fine. He said, "I've never heard of a hearse being done for speeding before. I supposed I'll probably have to pay the fine. I'm not too worried about the points because I intend not to incur any more."A third teenager, a male aged 16, has been arrested on suspicion of the murder of Rhys Jones two days ago in the Croxteth area of Liverpool. This most recent development follows the arrest and bailing of two teenagers on suspicion of murder yesterday. All those arrested so far have been local.Merseyside Police have also today released more information about the killing. An abandoned bicycle has been found in an area "with a different postcode to the shooting", which is now being investigated. Officers also confirmed descriptions of the killer's firearm, with a police source saying: "The murder weapon is described variously by witnesses as a black handgun with a long barrel." The source went on to state that they "don't know what the motive was", stressing that "inquiries are ongoing and further arrests possible" and that the investigation is "at a very early stage".Earlier in the day, there had been further calls for people with information surrounding the incident to come forward, including messages from Phil Neville and David Moyes, captain and manager of Everton F.C., the football club that Rhys supported. There will also be a minute's silence in memory of Rhys held ahead of Everton's game against Blackburn on Saturday, and players from both teams will wear black armbands.The police have said they were disappointed with the current response from the public to appeals to identify the killer. Assistant Chief Constable Patricia Gallan said: "We need to get this killer off the street. Within this community people know who is responsible for this crime." She added, in a message aimed at the killer: "If you are responsible for this crime, come and tell us and hand yourself in." Merseyside Police have guaranteed the protection and anonymity of any witness who comes forward.Official pressure on the Hare Krishna community near Almaty in Kazakhstan is mounting,  according to Norwegian religious rights organisation Forum 18. Following on from the demolition of homes at the end of last year three more home owners have been issued with demolition notices. If the owners fail to demolish their own houses the authorities have warned they will do so themselves and charge them for the cost.Thirteen homes owned by members of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness were bulldozed last November, although other homes in the village owned by non-Hare Krishna residents were not touched. Gauhar Beyeseyeva of the Kazakh Foreign Ministry is quoted as saying (to the members of the Hare Krishna commune) "We were denied the OSCE chairmanship specifically because of you people." Amanbek Muhashov, the chair of the committee for religion under the justice ministry told the Kazakh daily Kazakhstanskaya Pravda that some of the group members acquired land for the settlements by giving misleading information and thus the property did not conform to local regulations. This is refuted by the members of the community.The OSCE's Advisory Council on Freedom of Religion or Belief examined the dispute in detail last year and concluded that "state sponsored action has been focused upon members of the Hare Krishna community in a manner that suggests they have been targeted on the basis of their religious affiliation," and that "this raises serious issues regarding the enjoyment of the freedom of religion and belief." The Advisory Council also stated its "willingness to meet with the Kazakh authorities in order to discuss the situation and to extend its good offices to assist in the resolution of that dispute". The Kazakh authorities have thus far given no official answer to the Advisory Council's 27 November 2006 offer.A. Kravchenko, the head of the prosecutor-generals denied any "religious implications" in the legal proceedings.On 29 January Viktor Golous, Chair of the Hare Krishna Community, was summoned to a court hearing to continue the case on the ownership of the commune's farm. At the same time, demolition notices were served on three more Hare Krishna home owners, who were told that they must demolish their own homes within five days. According to Forum 18 no previous notices had been given to any of the three Hare Krishna targets in regards to any claims filed against them, court hearings or court rulings. Thus they were unable to file an appeal and defend their property. Golous appeared in court on January 30th with request that that – due to the short notice given – the hearing should be adjourned at least until lawyers were able to appear. Judge Jurhan Zhailybayev accepted the application for an adjournment and told Golous that he could leave as notice of the new date of the hearing would be sent to him. However, after Golous left the court, Judge Zhailybayev ruled – with only one of the three defendants present – that the Hare Krishna-owned farm should, in fact,  be confiscated.Members of the 'Sri Vrindavan Dharm' community in Karasai district question who is benefiting from the confiscation of their property?Rati Manjari of the Hare Krishnas told Forum 18 on January 20th that "by this new claim the authorities are preparing to cancel a 2005 Supreme Court decision that the Hare Krishna community are the bona fide purchaser and user of the land." She suggested that the authorities plan - "after they win this case" – to appeal to the Supreme Court to annul the Hare Krishna community's purchase and thus ownership of the land.The U.K. attorney general Lord Goldsmith has warned British media that further reporting of details from an allegedly leaked memo about a dispute between Tony Blair and George Bush "could be in breach of section 5 of the Official Secrets Act." The Guardian quoted an unnamed Downing Street source as saying that the decision whether to prosecute was "entirely up to the attorney general", who intended to "draw a line in the sand" to stop further leaks.Jeremy Dear, secretary of National Union of Journalists, called it "a heavy-handed attempt to shut the stable door after the horse has bolted. It is a double attack on the freedom of the press and freedom of information." Mr. Dear continued, "These sort of attempts to stifle uncomfortable revelations printed in a newspaper, which is only carrying out its proper duty to inform the British public, does the government of what is supposed to be a democracy no credit whatsoever."According to The Guardian this "is believed to be the first time the Blair government has threatened newspapers in this way". The British government has before obtained court injunctions against newspapers, but never prosecuted editors for publishing contents of leaked documents. Former British defence minister Peter Kilfoyle earlier called for the full text of the memo to be published. "I believe that Downing Street ought to publish this memo in the interests of transparency, given that much of the detail appears to be in the public domain". He added "If it was the case that President Bush wanted to bomb al-Jazeera in what is after all a friendly country, it speaks volumes and it raises questions about subsequent attacks that took place on the press that wasn't embedded with coalition forces."Tuesday, the Daily Mirror, a British tabloid, ran a front page story under the headline "Bush plot to bomb his ally", citing the memo in question (see previous story). In response to the attorney general, the Daily Mirror said it had "essentially agreed to comply".  Boris Johnson, MP for Henley and editor of The Spectator magazine, has condemned the Attorney General's actions and offered to risk jail by printing the memo if he receives it within the next few days.The Washington Post cited an unnamed senior Washington diplomat saying that the Bush remark as reported by the Daily Mirror "sounds like one of the president's one-liners that is meant as a joke." But, the diplomat said, "it was foolish for someone to write it down, and now it will be a story for days."The meeting between Bush and Blair occurred on April 16, 2004, at the height of the US assault on Fallujah. According to some reports, al-Jazeera was the only major news organisation providing eyewitness reports and video footage from within the city at the time. There is a history of enmity between senior U.S. officials and al-Jazeera. Vice President Dick Cheney has said that the network ran the risk of being labeled "Osama [bin Laden]'s outlet to the world", and Pentagon chief Donald Rumsfeld has called its coverage "outrageous" and "inexcusably biased".Al-Jazeera's news bureau in Kabul was destroyed by a U.S. missile during the aerial assault on the Taliban. The Pentagon later stated it did not know that the network's offices were in the building.  Al-Jazeera's Baghdad bureau was also hit by US forces, resulting in the death of an al-Jazeera journalist during the April 2003 assault on Baghdad.  The Pentagon claimed U.S. troops were responding to enemy fire from the building.According to reports, a man protesting the G20 Summit in London, England has died after collapsing at a protester camp. Sky News says the man collapsed on the street inside a camp close to the Bank of England and when found he was still breathing, but efforts by paramedics to rescue him failed and he was pronounced dead at an area hospital. The name of the person and cause of death are not yet known, but several people were injured earlier in the day. The police claim that protestors threw bottles at them while trying to rescue the protestor.The London Ambulance Service reported that "we received a 999 call at 7:24 pm from a member of the public reporting that a man had fallen over and was unconscious, but was breathing. [They] made extensive efforts to resuscitate him both there and on the way to hospital."Earlier in the day a minimum of 20 protesters broke into the bank and according to reports vandalized furniture, broke windows and cut the telephone lines to the building.On Friday October 13, Colonel Carol Joyce, the Marines' chief defense counsel, imposed a gag order on Lieutenant Colonel Colby Vokey, the lead military counsel for Guantanamo detainee Omar Khadr and Sgt. Heather Cerveny, the team's paralegal.On her first visit to Guantanamo, Cerveny was approached by off-duty guards who bragged to her of how they abused detainees.  They told of arbitrarily seizing detainee's toiletries and other belongings, in order to provoke their emotions so they would have a justification for using force against them.  They told of arbitrary beatings. One guard bragged about banging a detainee's face against the door of his cell without any justification.On October 6 2006 Cerveny swore an affidavit describing the hour-long conversation she had with the off-duty guards in the Guantanamo military club, prompting calls for an inquiry.In an interview on October 12, Cerveny said, "It was a general consensus that I (detected) that as a group this is something they did. That this was OK at Guantanamo, that this is how the detainees get treated," In a statement Colonel Joyce explained she had imposed the gag order pending a review of the facts, "This is necessary to ensure all actions of counsel are in compliance with regulations establishing professional standards for military attorneys,"According to Muneer Ahmad, Khadr's civilian lawyer, the gag order imposes a dilemma for the military members of Khadr's defense team.He said Vokey wasn't only barred from talking about Cerveny's affidavit, he was barred from talking about any aspect of the military commissions.  Ahmad said Vokey previously had permission to speak with the media.According to the San Diego Union Tribune Ahmad said the gag order had put Vokey in a dilemma: "It's in Omar's interests for the truth about abuses of detainees at Guantanamo, including him, to get out in the open. But Colby (Vokey) is being prevented from doing that part of his job ... and thereby representing Omar's interests, I think he is very concerned about his ability to perform his job as a lawyer,"Following accusations issued by the United States Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations (PSI), British Member of Parliament George Galloway and Senator Charles Pasqua of France  have vehemently denied any wrongdoing.George Galloway declared:I've now had a chance to read the report which was compiled without this Senate committee asking me a single question about these absurd allegations. I repeat once more. I have never traded or benefited from any oil deals with Iraq.One of the companies named, with ostensible links to me-- Aredio Petroleum-- I have never heard of until today and I have certainly had no dealings with. The other company, Middle East Advanced Semiconductors, was owned by Fawaz Zureikat, who was the chairman of the Mariam Appeal. It is well-known that Mr Zureikat traded with Iraq but he did not do so on my behalf. I have not received a penny piece or any oil voucher from Iraq, directly or indirectly.You would have thought that natural justice would have demanded that these allegations would have-- must have been!-- put to me, but they haven't been. Senator Joseph McCarthy would have been proud of this committee.On May 17, Galloway appeared before the U.S. senatorial panel and vehemently denied any wrongdoing in a tone seldom used in a senatorial hearing. He accused the U.S. administration of creating a "smoke screen" to divert attention away from the situation in Iraq. He also declared, "The biggest sanctions busters were not me or Russian politicians or French politicians. The real sanctions busters were your own companies with the connivance of your own government." Galloway denied receiving any money out of the scheme.  Galloway demanded, "What counts is, where's the money, senator? Who paid me hundreds of thousands of dollars? The answer to that is nobody," while glaring toward U.S. senator Norm Coleman (Republican from Minnesota), according to a New York Times report.Galloway also accused the US senators, especially senator Coleman, of shoddy standards of justice.  He claimed they have already ruled him guilty, and that they rely on dubious evidence and wrongful or coerced testimonies. Galloway declared:You have my name on lists provided to you... by the convicted bank robber and fraudster and con man Ahmed Chalabi, who many people, to their credit, in your country now realize played a decisive role in leading your country into the disaster in Iraq.In these circumstances, knowing what the world knows about how you treat prisoners in Abu Ghraib prison1, in Bagram Air Base [Afghanistan], in Guantanamo Bay -- including, if I may say, British citizens being held in those places -- I'm not sure how much credibility anyone would put on anything you manage to get from a prisoner in those circumstances.1. Alluding to the acknowledged Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse.Charles Pasqua also denies any personal wrongdoing in the case.  Pasqua indicated that he was "serene" and that he hoped the investigations by the U.S. Senate would probe the matter to the bottom. Pasqua judged the situation detrimental to relationships between the United States and France.  For this reason, Pasqua declared that he had asked the president of the French Senate for the creation of an investigation commission, wishing that the French and U.S. senatorial commissions should collaborate.Pasqua declared himself convinced that misconduct took place in the oil-for-food program, and that it was probable that some French people were involved.  He then wished that they should be sought and prosecuted. "If one wants to find the origin of the financial streams, one can do so."  Pasqua mentioned the Swiss company Genmar, which the U.S. report claims to have served as Pasqua's intermediary.Pasqua denied information presented as facts in the report.  For instance, he denied having met Tariq Aziz, former Deputy Prime Minister of Iraq.Pasqua pointed out that nothing in the senatorial evidence indicates that he had benefited from vouchers, only that one of his former advisers, Bernard Guillet, had received oil allocations in his name. From December 2000 onwards, allocations meant for Pasqua ceased and were replaced by allocations to Bernard Guillet.  Guillet was arrested by French authorities in April in connection with abuses under the oil-for-food program. Mr Guillet has been put under formal investigation for allegedly participating in a system of occult kickbacks and fees between 1996 and 2001 involving major French companies, including Total. He is suspected of having received amounts of money without good explanation from an intermediary specialized in the resale of Iraqi oil.Ayoub John Njie, a magistrate in Brikama, Gambia, has said that he will acquit all people detained for 72 hours without charge, due to the fact that he believes detention for more than three days is unconstitutional. Section 19 (1) of the Gambian constitution says that "no one shall be subject to arbitrary arrest or detention. No one shall be deprived of his or her liberty except on such grounds and in accordance with such procedures as established by law." Njie stated that he believes that detention for over 72 hours is depriving someone of their liberty without sending the person through the "procedures as established by law."Njie, who works at Brikama Magistrates Court, said that "I stand for justice and I also stand to assist the government for justice to prevail.The incident started when Dida Halake, former managing director of the Daily Observer was acquitted on these grounds, and these statement by the judge were made in the case of Amadou Kah, who is accused of stealing goats.A New Zealand teenager's conversion of the popular Grand Theft Auto (GTA) video game is gaining popularity and the New Zealand Police are unhappy at their portrayal. Stacy O'Callaghan talked to Wikinews' Gabriel Pollard about his mod.The police cars and the police officers have been given a makeover to resemble the New Zealand versions. The planes were branded Air New Zealand, and ambulances were converted to match the local Wellington scheme, among various other changes.The Beehive, Te Papa and the Sky Tower are looking to be added to the game also. O'Callaghan says, "We actually have the models for these buildings but haven't figured out how to import them into the game."Theres plenty more to come, but thats our progress so far."Despite media reports stating the Police were investigating whether or not the mod breached the law prohibiting the unauthorised use of police insignia, O'Callaghan has not heard from the Police at all. He says that if the Police did contact him with their concerns then he might consider taking the download offline. "If people want to start getting all legal and stuff, then I will just remove it."I don't want to offend anyone, I don't hate NZ Police, I think they are actually one of the best Police forces in the world."The 17-year-old has said that his total conversion mod for the San Andreas version of GTA is "fairly popular". "The mod has been fairly popular considering NZ's population, and considering NZ'ers aren't exactly game mod fanatics," O'Callaghan says. He says the latest version of the mod he uploaded has so far had 466 downloads.He has made the mod publicly available for any gamer who wants to play the New Zealand-branded version of the game and enjoy the game as much as he now does. O'Callaghan says he doesn't want to make money off the game change.The original plan was for the GTA modification to only transform the police cars into New Zealand branded cars but was later extended when O'Callaghan was contacted by other developers. He says, "I originally started with just the police cars back in November last year and left it at that, and then after uploading it people came to me saying they wanted to help out with it and so about a couple of months ago we started making this total conversion."O'Callaghan says in the future he would like to join the New Zealand Police and work in computer forensics, failing that he'd like to go into the IT industry.John Albert Gardner III pleaded not guilty in to the rape and murder of 17-year-old Poway, California resident Chelsea King during a short arraignment held in San Diego  Superior Court on Wednesday. King disappeared February 25 while jogging in a park near Lake Hodges  in Escondido. A body believed to be King's was found Tuesday near the lake shore. DNA matching of semen found on the victim's clothing identified Gardner as a suspect, according to a spokesperson for the California Department of Justice. Gardner was arrested Sunday near Lake Hodges.A preliminary hearing in the case is scheduled for March 18.The murder charge carries the special circumstance of being committed during a rape. Deputy District Attorney Kristen Spieler stated that the special circumstance makes Gardner eligible for the death penalty. The charges carry a penalty of 25 years to life if prosecutors choose not to pursue the death penalty.Gardner is listed in California's registered sex offender database with a home address in Lake Elsinore, about 75 miles north of San Diego. He had been visiting his mother at her Rancho Bernardo townhouse at the time of King's murder.King had planned on going on a run in Rancho Bernardo Community Park on the afternoon of February 25. Her family called police when she did not return home at dark. King's BMW was found in the park's parking lot, locked, with her cell phone and other belongings inside. Nothing indicated that anything violent had occurred in the vehicle.About 125 professionally-trained search-and-rescue volunteers combed through an area between the park and Lake Hodges. 6,000 other volunteers searched areas around North County, coordinated by the Texas-based Laura Recovery Center. Searchers found a body about 1 p.m. (13:00) local time (2100 UTC) on Tuesday, in a shallow grave about ten feet from a tributary that leads to the lake. The search had already covered that area but had missed the body. A diver searching the tributary spotted it from the water. According to San Diego County Sheriff Bill Gore, there is a "strong likelihood" that the body is King's; however, the District Attorney's office does not plan to release positive identification until the preliminary hearing.San Diego police say they have connected Gardner to a December 27 attack on a 22-year-old jogger in the same park where King disappeared. Gardner is also under investigation in the February 2009 disappearance of 14-year-old Amber Dubois in Escondido. In May 2000, Gardner was convicted of a forcible lewd act on a child and  false imprisonment. A 13-year-old female neighbor accused him of molesting her and  punching her repeatedly in the head.In the 2000 case, prosecutors had originally charged Gardner with more-violent crimes that could have put him in prison for 30 years. They granted Gardner a plea agreement allowing him to be charged with lesser crimes — and receive a shorter sentence — in order to "spare the victim the trauma of testifying". With the reduced charges, Gardner faced 11 years in prison. The judge agreed to the prosecution's recommendation that the sentence be reduced to six years. Gardner served five years and was released in 2005. He wore a tracking device until his probation ended in 2008.Dr. Matthew Carroll, the staff psychiatrist who interviewed Gardner in 2000 stated that "the defendant takes no responsibility whatsoever for his actions..." and that "it is my opinion that [the defendant] would be a continued danger to underage girls in the community." However, Dr. Divy Kikani, a psychiatrist who had treated Gardner for bipolar disorder, said that Gardner was "extremely remorseful" and "highly motivated" to get help. A then-girlfriend, ex-girlfriend, and Gardner's mother all expressed support for him in the 2000 case.Chelsea King's parents, Brent and Kelly King, are arguing for changes in sex offender laws following their daughter's death. Kelly King stated that current law "lets every child in this country down."The pilot of the Boeing 737 which crashed on March 7 upon landing at Yogyakarta Airport after a domestic Indonesian flight, has been forced by his airline to resign. The crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 killed twenty-one people, most being Indonesian nationals and five being Australians, following a visit by then Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer.Garuda sent the pilot, Marwoto Komar, an ultimatum requesting his resignation with which he complied. Had he failed to do so, his employment would have been terminated. The news coincides with police officials forwarding to prosecutors some documents recommending that Komar be charged with negligent manslaughter over the crash, which carries a maximum sentence of seven years imprisonment.The final report into the disaster found that Mr Komar ignored fifteen activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System informing him he was attempting to land too fast. After touching down at double the maximum safe speed, the aircraft overshot the runway and caught fire.Kamal Firdaus, legal representative of Mr Komar, said "We regret Garuda so soon giving Marwoto the option of being fired or resigning." Mr Komar was arrested early this month, but was subsequently released on bail on February 15. He is thought to be the first pilot to face prosecution for an aviation accident or incident in Indonesia.Indonesian national Marwoto Komar has been released on bail having earlier been arrested over the March 7 crash of a Boeing 737 he was piloting. Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 overshot the runway at Yogyakarta Airport whilst landing after a scheduled domestic passenger flight, leaving 21 Indonesian and Australian passengers dead, out of 140 on board.The subsequent investigation by the National Transport Safety Committee concluded with report released in November that found the aircraft had approached at far in excess of safe landing speeds, with Komar ignoring 15 activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS) as well as his co-pilot requesting an emergency go-around as the plane touched down.Muchtar Yudhi, legal representative of Mr Komar, told El Shinta radio today that authorities had accepted a request to release Komar on bail, he having been arrested nearly two weeks ago in Yogyakarta. He said Komar remains a suspect of manslaugher, but that he will continue to co-operate with police.He also said that under global aviation law "if a plane crash occurred, the pilot cannot face criminal investigation".The police say they intend to prosecute him for negligence and will now charge him when he returns to court. He is thought to be the first pilot to be prosecuted over a crash in Indonesian history, which also contains a poor aviation safety record.The Indonesian Pilot's Association has also said that the criminal prosecution should be avoided, arguing that the only people who can judge whether mistakes were made in aviation are those professionally involved and not the police. There were protests in Jakarta demanding his release and dozens of pilots across the nation also campaigned. Two survivors, Adrianus Meliala and Retno Gunowati, went to the House of Representatives (DPR) on Wednesday to challenge those opposed to legal processes against the pilot.The London-based International Federation of Air Line Pilots Associations (IFALPA) commented that they were "saddened" to hear the news. IFALPA contends that further investigations are needed into the crash, and that criminal proceedings could prevent an accurate version of events from ever being known. A statement was released that read as follows: "The Federation expects that Capt. Komar will be released ... as he has agreed to fully cooperate with the police investigation and clearly poses no danger to society. He remains a professional who was involved in an unfortunate tragedy." Alexander Downer, Australian foreign minister at the time of the crash, earlier said "...I am very glad that they have reached a point now where they have charged the captain of the aircraft." Several people involved were Australian journalists following Downer on a visit to Indonesia."Thanks to the chief of the Indonesian Police and the chief of Yogyakarta Police... I'm glad now that I can meet my family again." Komar said upon his release.Komar has earlier been under police surveillance, during which time he was receiving psychological treatment. He has had his pilot's license suspended.A new theory has emerged as in to why the pilot of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 attempted to land at a hugely excessive speed, despite 15 automated warnings he was flying too quickly and the co-pilot's call for a 'go-around' procedure to be performed. 21 people were killed in the March 7 crash of the Boeing 737-400 passenger jetliner.Stephanus Geraldus, head of the Garuda pilots association, said that problems at home and a lack of sleep may have affected Marwoto Komar's judgement. The news comes as Indonesian authorities announce they are pressing ahead with a possible prosecution.The final report into the disaster, released on Monday, found that Komar, 45, had exhibited what was described as a "fixation" to land the plane, resulting in the excessively fast approach."If you look at his long flying experience, it's impossible that he would try to land at that speed," Captain Geraldus said, adding that marrital problems with wife Norma Andriani, a former air hostess, were "common knowledge". This was backed up by Dudi Sudibyo, an analyst at Angkasa magazine (translated: 'Airspace')."I understand he was arguing with his wife until late that night," said Sudibyo, who went on to express concern at the lack of addressal of potential mental problems on the part of the pilot in the report. Sudibyo is himself a licensed pilot.Lack of sleep may also have contributed. Both Komar and Gagam Rochmana, the flight's co-pilot, reported for duty at 4:30 a.m., with the flight departing Jakarta for Yogyakarta as scheduled at 6 a.m. "What I want to know now is: why he didn't report that lack of sleep and ask to be shifted to the next flight, or maybe he felt extremely confident he could fly - overconfident," Sudibyo specualted. The report did not find any explicit evidence that they were unfit to fly, but did comment that "they did not provide the investigation with information about (their) activities during the 72 hours prior to commencing duty".Police officials have commented that a prosecution is likely with the only personnel required to complete the case against the pilot and co-pilot being expert witnesses, and that the pilots had been grounded since the accident. "We're looking to prosecute under criminal negligence causing death and serious injury," Inspector-General Adiwinoto said."We need witnesses who can prove there was negligence, and since this was an aviation matter, that could be someone from the National Safety Transportation Committee, or it could also be a medical doctor because of the deaths and injuries."We have been proceeding with this investigation all along, but we needed enough preliminary evidence, which we now do have, with the report that says, yes, there was human negligence." He also said that the airline may itself be prosecuted for failing to provide necessary training to the flight crew. This new development comes at the same time as six Garuda Boeing 737-400s are grounded for failure to comply with import regulations.The trial of Captain Marwoto Komar is set to begin this week. The first pilot to be prosecuted over an aircraft accident in Indonesia, he is being charged over the March 7, 2007 crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 at Yogyakarta International Airport, a disaster which killed 21 people.The final report by the National Transport Safety Commission found that Komar had attempted to land the aircraft, a Boeing 737, at an unsafely high speed and steep angle, resulting in the plane overshooting the runway and bursting into flames. It further said that he ignored fifteen activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System telling him he was approaching too fast, as well as a request by the co-pilot to abort the landing.According to Muhammad Assegaf, a member of Captain Komar's defense team, the trial begins on Thursday in Yogyakarta's Slemen District Court. When asked about the nature of the charges, deputy attorney general for general offenses Abdul Hakim Ritonga told reporters "It is complicated...but both aviation and criminal codes can be used," and that the charges would be of fatal negligence.Most of those killed in the disaster were Indonesians, but five Australians were also killed. They were part of a group sent ahead of Australia's then foreign minister Alexander Downer to accompany him on a visit.There is much controversy surrounding the prosecution. A group of pilots protested his initial arrest, saying he should appear before an aviation tribunal. Instead, he is set to be tried before five judges.An explosion on Thursday morning destroyed a state maternity hospital in Mexico City, Mexico. A nurse and two babies are dead.Initially reports placed the fatalities at seven. Local officials including Mexico City Health Secretary Armando Ahued and Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera have since revised the figure downwards. Over 70 people including 20 infants are wounded. Around 100 people were in the building at the time.The explosion occurred as a truck was resupplying the hospital's gas tanks, and a leak developed in the supply hose. Driver Julio César Martínez and assistants Carlos Chavez and Salvador Alatorre have been arrested. Chavez and Alatorre spent around fifteen minutes attempting to stem the leak, to no avail. All three are amongst the injured.Firefighters and federal police entered the ruins to recover trapped survivors. Victims' relatives, and other bystanders, gathered at police cordons around the scene. "I am still a little bit in shock. It was a nightmare," said nurse Ivonne Lugo Durantes. Durantes was rescued after ten minutes trapped beneath debris. She has first degree burns but is "grateful to have another chance to keep living, to keep working as a nurse." She witnessed other staff rescuing babies amid a conflagration. New father Jose Eduardo told reporters his wife ran barefoot with their baby to escape. Eduardo said some escaped nude. Witnesses around the hospital reported a strong smell of gas, a large explosion, and flying debris. Ambulances and helicopters were used to evacuate casualties.President Enrique Pena Nieto and Pope Francis both took to Twitter to express support for the victims.Reports say that hundreds of people are dead after a gasoline pipeline exploded in the northern suburbs of Lagos, Nigeria on Tuesday. "Some of the bodies were so burnt that it would be difficult to recognize them as those of human beings," said one Red Cross official, Kingsley Amori.The Red Cross says that many of the victims can only be identified by looking at the remains of their skulls. Estimates suggest that 200-900 people were killed, and another 60 people received medical treatment."The bodies are scattered over the ground. We can't get close enough because the fire is still burning. We cannot confirm how many hundreds were killed." said secretary-general of the Nigerian Red Cross, Ige Oladimeji.The explosion is believed to have been caused by vandalization in the pipeline. Reports say that thieves used a drill to punch a hole in the pipeline in order to steal gasoline, which is sold on the black market.Fuel was being pumped into the pipes to be distributed for consumer use when it exploded. The pipeline is operated by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, which is owned by the State of Nigeria. Workers have stopped pumping fuel through the pipelines.Britain has stated that it will reconsider the asylum application of a gay Iranian teenager who believes he will be persecuted for his sexuality if he is deported back to Iran. The announcement Friday by the British government came after the European Parliament urged a resolution to the case and said that Iran has a history of torturing and executing homosexuals.Britain had initially rejected an asylum request by 19-year-old Mehdi Kazemi, and Kazemi fled to the Netherlands, where his case was turned down and he returned to Britain. British Home Secretary Jacqui Smith released a statement on the case: "Following representations made on behalf of Mehdi Kazemi, and in the light of new circumstances since the original decision was made, I have decided that Mr. Kazemi's case should be reconsidered on his return to the UK from the Netherlands." Eighty members of Britain's upper house of Parliament sent a letter to Jacqui Smith, appealing to the government to "show compassion and allow Mr. Kazemi to have a safe haven in the United Kingdom." Roger Roberts of the House of Lords initiated the petition, and stated: "There is no doubt that he will be persecuted and possibly face state-sanctioned murder if he is forced to return." Simon Hughes, Member of Parliament for North Southwark and Bermondsey, said he would support Kazemi if he returns to the United Kingdom: "I hope Mr Kazemi will now come back to Britain where arrangements are already in place for an urgent meeting with him, his family, specialist lawyers and myself to prepare a new application to the Home Office."Gay rights advocate and spokesman for the British gay rights group OutRage!, David Allison commented "It's cruel to even suggest sending him back ... The history of gays in Iran has been horrific." Ben Summerskill of the British gay rights organization, Stonewall, said: "We are obviously delighted that the home secretary has listened to the representations that were made in this case ... There are overwhelming reasons why people should not be deported to Iran in the current circumstances, and it is important that Britain is seen as a safe haven."Borg Palm, Kazemi's solicitor, stated Kazemi was pleased with the news but would have an unstable future in Britain without asylum: "He is very much afraid of being allowed to stay in Britain but without being granted official permission. That would then put him in a no man’s land. He would be very unhappy in the long term."Kazemi came to Britain in 2005 to study English. His uncle spoke with CNN on condition of anonymity, and said that his nephew was studying in Britain in 2006 when his partner in Iran was arrested and hanged after being charged with sodomy. Kazemi's uncle told CNN: "Under torture and pressure, (the partner) revealed Mehdi's name as his boyfriend." Gay sex is considered a crime in Iran, and is punishable by death. Kazemi told British authorities in his asylum application that Iranian police were after him, and that he could face execution if he returned to Iran. Kazemi stated in his asylum request: "I cannot stop my attraction to men ... If I return to Iran I will be arrested and executed like [my boyfriend]. Since this incident ... I have been so scared."After Britain's Home Office initially denied Kazemi's asylum application, he fled to Canada and then the Netherlands, where he was detained. Kazemi faces deportation from the Netherlands to Britain, after their highest court rejected his plea on Tuesday. The Netherlands' highest court rejected the case, citing EU law that Kazemi's case was the responsibility of the country where he first requested asylum.A resolution passed by the European Parliament Thursday asked EU states "to find a common solution to ensure that Mehdi Kazemi is granted asylum or protection on EU soil and not sent back to Iran." The resolution also stated that Iranian authorities "routinely detain, torture and execute persons, notably homosexuals" and that "Mehdi's partner has already been executed, while his father has threatened him with death."  In a September 2007 speech at Columbia University, Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was challenged by University president Lee Bollinger for Iran's treatment of gays.  Ahmadinejad stated that "In Iran we don't have homosexuals like in your country," drawing laughter from the audience. "In Iran we do not have this phenomenon, I don't know who has told you that we have it." According to Iranian human rights activists, over 4,000 gay men and lesbians have been executed since the Iranian Revolution of 1979.Lawmakers in Massachusetts, located in the United States, have thrown out an amendment that would allow voters to vote for same-sex marriage, or against it in the 2008 general elections."Today's vote is not just a victory for marriage equality. It was a victory for equality itself," said Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick who voted against the amendment.President of the Massachusetts Family Institute Kristian Mineau, called the decision "disappointing."Fifty votes were needed to pass the amendment. Two hundred lawmakers sit on the state's session and in January voted for the amendment with 62 votes. In the recent session on Thursday, the amendment only received 45 support votes with 141 opposing the amendment, killing the measure until at least 2010. It would then require opponents of gay marriage to start from scratch, writing new petitions to the lawmakers, and then gaining the support of at least 50 of them, in at least two separate sessions.Same-sex marriages became legal in Massachusetts in 2004 after the Mass. Supreme Judicial Court ruled in 2003 the ban on gay marriage to be "unconstitutional," and since then nearly 9,000 couples have gotten married there.Voters in California, Florida and Arizona voted on Tuesday to ban gay marriage, bringing about a victory for conservatives on a day which did not bring many conservative wins. Meanwhile, voters in Colorado, South Dakota and California voted on measures which would have restricted abortion in those states. In Massachusetts and Michigan, voters passed measures that loosen marijuana laws. Finally, in the state of Washington a measure was passed that allows physician-assisted suicide.The California ballot measure, Proposition 8, overturns the recent June ruling by the California State Supreme Court in the case In re Marriage Cases which reversed a 1977 statute passed by the California State Legislature and a 2000 ballot measure, Proposition 22, which also banned same-sex marriage by defining marriage as between a man and a woman. The wording of Proposition 8 is identical to Proposition 22. It was noted that many of the African-Americans and Latinos who cast their votes for Obama, also voted for the measure. The measure passed at 52% to 48%.Lesbian comedian Ellen DeGeneres noted, "This morning, when it was clear that Proposition 8 had passed in California, I can’t explain the feeling I had. I was saddened beyond belief. Here we just had a giant step toward equality and then on the very next day, we took a giant step away."Singer Melissa Etheridge, who is also a lesbian, stated that she would no longer pay taxes due to the passing of Proposition 8, announcing in a blog post, "Okay, so I am taking that to mean I do not have to pay my state taxes because I am not a full citizen."Also in California, voters rejected a measure which would require parental notification for a minor to receive an abortion. The measure was rejected with the same percentage as Proposition 8, 52% to 48%. Meanwhile in Colorado, voters rejected a measure that would define life as beginning at conception. While the measure did not specifically mention abortion it would have required legislators and courts to confront legal rights for fetuses - effectively preventing abortion. The measure was defeated in a wide margin, 73% to 27%In South Dakota, voters also defeated an anti-abortion measure which would have outlawed abortion in all cases except in the case of rape, incest or if the mother's health was in serious question. If passed, the law would most likely have been challenged as unconstitutional.In Michigan, voters approved a measure which legalizes medical marijuana. Meanwhile, in Massachusetts, voters approved a ballot question that decriminalizes possession of small amounts of marijuana in which the possession of an ounce or less would be punishable by a $100 fine. The measure will also require minors under the age 18 to participate in and complete a drug awareness program and do community service. Failure to do so, would net the minor a $1,000 fine."Tonight's results represent a sea change. Voters have spectacularly rejected eight years of the most intense government war on marijuana since the days of 'Reefer Madness,'" said Rob Kampia, executive director of the Marijuana Policy Project. "The people were ahead of the politicians on this issue; they recognize and want a more sensible approach to our marijuana policy," said Whitney Taylor, the chair of Committee for Sensible Marijuana Policy, which backed the Massachusetts proposition.Also, in Massachusetts, voters overwhelmingly, in every single Massachusetts city and town, rejected a ballot measure which would have eliminated the state income tax by 2010, the ballot measure was sponsored by the Committee for Small Government, which is headed up by two libertarians, Michael Cloud, a Libertarian Party candidate for U.S. Senate in 2002 and Carla Howell, Libertarian Party candidate for governor in the 2002 Massachusetts gubernatorial election. The last time the income tax elimination measure was on the ballot was in 2002, where it was defeated, narrowly by 45.3%. This stunned supporters of the income tax, who mounted a fierce campaign against the measure this time warning Massachusetts residents that repealing the income tax would have drastic effects on the state's finances, leading to cuts in services, education and local aid.Finally, voters passed a question which bans dog racing in Massachusetts, which will lead to the closure of Massachusetts' two greyhound racing tracks, Raynham-Taunton Greyhound Park and Wonderland Greyhound Park. The campaign against dog racing was headed up by the Committee to Protect Dogs and endorsed by GREY2K USA and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals along with other animal protection organizations who claimed that dog racing was inhumane as the dogs were stuffed into cramped cages and endured injuries. The measure was opposed by the park owners including George Carney who owns the Rayham-Taunton park and Charles Sarkis, a restaurateur who owns Wonderland."We did it. We did it for the dogs," said Carey Thiel, executive director of GREY2K USA. "For 75 years, greyhounds in our state have endured terrible confinement and suffered serious injuries. We're better than that," Thiel added.One campaign supporter,  Sandy Bigelow noted, "It means everything. We've worked so hard for the dogs and they heard us. It feels so good. Oh, God, it feels so good."George Carney said of the results, "It's not a very pleasant thing right now. Some of these people have been here 40 years. Here's a company that did nothing wrong, paid their federal taxes on time, paid the town on time. The town is going to be a severe loser, and a lot of people here dedicated their life to the company."Both sides used emotionally-charged advertisements, the anti-racing side showing “sad-eyed greyhounds,” while the pro-racing side highlighted the workers who would be out of work when the tracks close.Both measures must now come before the Massachusetts Governor's Council for approval. A ballot initiative approved by voters in the north-western state of Washington will make it the second state to permit physician-assisted suicide.   Initiative 1000 follows the ten-year-old example of the Death With Dignity Act of neighboring Oregon, and will allow physicians to prescribe a lethal dose of medication for a terminally ill patient to administer themselves.  It was approved by a margin of 16%, and the ‘Yes’ campaign outspent the ‘No’ campaign by more than three-to-one.  The law comes into effect in 2009.Frenzied destruction of empty Jewish settlements in Gaza by Palestinian looters have marred plans for exploiting those facilities to create much needed jobs for the area.Greenhouses in Gaza have been partly destroyed as crucial equipment was stripped by the Palestinians. Looters took everything from water pumps, plastic sheets, tubing and equipment. This makes at least one third of the hothouses at least temporarily unusable to feed the families of Gaza and for potential export to Israel.The facilities were purchased by a group of Jewish-American donors and given to the Palestinian government to encourage economic development. It was initially anticipated over four thousand Palestinians could be given work at the greenhouses, however all offers have been suspended prior to the damage being assessed and repairs arranged.Former Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo today appeared before the International Criminal Court (ICC) in The Hague to hear charges against him.  The ICC has charged him with four counts of crimes against humanity regarding events following last year's Ivorian presidential election.Following the election on November 28, Alassane Ouattara was internationally recognized as the winner, but Gbagbo maintained he had won.  Subsequent violence killed about 3,000 people.  Gbagbo was arrested in April.Gbagbo is charged as an "indirect co-perpetrator" in "widespread and systematic" crimes "over an extended time period".  He was moved from Ivory Coast to The Hague last week, which his supporters called "political kidnapping".Human rights groups have also called for investigation of Ouattara's supporters.  ICC chief prosecutor Louis Moreno-Ocampo said "there is more to come".  UN high commissioner for human rights Navi Pillay noted that "In all of our reports, we made it clear there were violations of human rights on both sides".Since the ICC was established in 2002, this is the first time an ex-head of state has been brought before it.  All the cases now being heard by the ICC are African, although some non-African preliminary investigations are underway.  To date, the ICC has never successfully convicted anyone.Serbian general, Nebojša Pavković, pled not guilty before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague today. Pavković is indicted on four counts of crimes against humanity and one count of violations of the laws or customs of war from January 1999 to June 1999 in Kosovo. After fleeing from Serbian authorities, he surrendered on April 22. Pavković's extradition was one of the conditions for confirmation of the feasibility report of accession of Serbia and Montenegro to the EU.Brigadier General Thomas W. Hartmann, an officer in the United States Air Force Reserve, is the subject of two new investigations. Both center on whether Hartmann abused his power as the Legal Adviser to the Convening Authority in the Department of Defense Office of Military Commissions. He no longer holds this position.The United States Air Force is conducting an ethics probe after a preliminary investigation concluded that there were sufficient grounds to move forward. The inquiry is investigating allegations that cases which were not ready for trial moved ahead because Hartmann bullied prosecutors and logistics officials.The other investigation is being conducted by the United States Department of Defense which is looking into complaints by at least two military officials that Hartmann acted in an abusive and retaliatory manner towards them while they served at the Office of Military Commissions.These probes will "cast doubt on all of the decisions that have been taken under his tenure," predicted Hina Shamsi, who serves as official trial observer at Guantanamo for the American Civil Liberties Union.Hartmann was recalled to active duty in July 2007 and appointed the Legal Advisor to the civilian official — known as the Convening Authority — in charge of Office of Military Commissions. The position of Convening Authority has been filled by Susan J. Crawford since February 2007.  Hartmann's active duty term was to be for a two year term.The duties of the Legal Advisor to Convening Authority included providing general oversight of the Prosecution and Defense teams, and providing advice to the convening authority when appeals are made.  When Hartmann was appointed the Chief Prosecutor, Colonel Morris Davis was on medical leave. Hartmann was dissatisfied with the process of the commissions.  In the nine months since the passage of the Military Commissions Act of 2006 only three captives had been charged. Hartmann is reported to have intervened in the operation of the Prosecution, pressuring Prosecutors to initiate charges against the captives suspected of being the more senior members of al-Qaeda.When Davis returned from his medical leave, he and Hartmann clashed. Davis felt Hartmann had improperly over-stepped his assigned duties, usurping his own role.Davis reported that his approach had been to charge captives whose trials could be conducted without access to secret evidence, and without access to evidence coerced through the use of torture or questionable interrogation techniques.  In October 2007, Davis went public and suggested that both he and Hartmann resign from the Office of Military Commissions. A military inquiry at the time censured Davis, who did resign from the Office of Military Commissions, and has subsequently testified against Hartmann.The Presiding Officers of three of the Military Commissions heard testimony from Hartmann and eventually barred him from participation in the cases before them, because they believed he had exercised "illegal command influence".Stephen R. Henley — the Presiding Officer of Mohammed Jawad's commission, who barred Hartmann from further participation — wrote on August 14, 2008:After Colonel Patrick Parrish barred Hartmann from participation in Omar Khadr's commission, Hartmann's subordinate was promoted to replace him. Hartmann was moved to a new position, where he served over the Prosecution. Pentagon officials described it as a lateral move. Air Force officials described it as a promotion.On November 2, 2008 Carol Rosenberg, writing in the Miami Herald, reported that Hartmann had filed a request to retire from the Air Force on 17 February 2008. Hartmann's superior at the Pentagon, William J. Haynes, had announced his resignation in February.Yesterday (October 10, 2006) a bomb scare occurred in Geneva. More than 30,000 people were evacuated from the main station Cornavin and the Globus Department store. By 20:00 Swiss Time (18:00 UTC) the alert was called off. Over 40 trains were cancelled and the scare caused mass havoc in the centre of Geneva."Ce message s'addresse aux forces de Police: deux bombes ont été posées à deux endroits stratégiques. Une, à Cornavin et une au centre commerciale Globus. Nos demandes sont... "This message is addressed to the Police Forces: two bombs have been placed at two strategic positions. One at Cornavin [Geneva's main station] and one at the Globus shopping centre. Our demands are as follows...'  The line then cut off. That was the message received by the alert centre of the Police  at 17:12 Swiss time (15:12 UTC), causing a massive evacuation. An anonymous caller called 117, (the Police number in Switzerland). At 18:00 Swiss time (16:00 UTC) in the middle of rush hour, railway police began asking people to leave the main station building [Cornavin]. In a matter of minutes the entire station was empty. All trains were stopped at Lausanne, or had they already by-passed the station, they were to halt at the nearest station ahead of them. These halts caused the stranding of more than 30,000 passengers. All trams were stopped causing major traffic jams. There were similar happenings in the Globus department store where staff and shoppers were evacuated without hassle. As no bomb was found in the store, the Police Line bands were removed at 19:23 Swiss Time (17:23 UTC). However, the search continued in the bigger Cornavin station, but shortly after 20:00 Swis Time (18.00 UTC) the danger in the station was decided to be non-existent. Christophe Zawadaski, spokesperson for the police, explained that the search took a long time because the bomb-sniffing dogs found a suspicious bag in a train. But "luckily there was no bomb inside" he said.The first train left again at 20:45 Swiss Time (18:45 UTC).The SBB-CFF-FFS (The Swiss Federal Railway company) say around 40 trains were cancelled.  Police say there are no links between this event and the alert of a possible attack on the UN building last week, which was leaked to the press, and was meant to be a top-secret document.  Geneva police have not yet made an arrest following this false alert.  But, if whoever caused this panic is caught,  Swiss penal code decrees anyone accused of a fallacious tip-off is liable to three years in prison.Silvio Berlusconi, the Prime Minister of Italy, has announced he will call US actor George Clooney to testify at his trial.Berlusconi is accused of having sex with an underage prostitute, Karima El Mahroug, during a party at his villa near Milan. He has denies the charges. The Italian PM is further accused of abusing his power by intervening in a theft that Ms. Mahroug was involved in. Berlusconi attempted to evade the charges by using a recently overturned law that would leave him immune to prosecution.Mr. Clooney and his partner, Elisabetta Canalis, were said to have been present during the February 14, 2010 party at Mr. Berlusconi's villa.The trial is expected to begin on April 6th.George Zimmerman, the Florida man previously acquitted in the high-profile murder trial for the shooting of teenager Trayvon Martin, was arrested yesterday following an alleged domestic dispute. Police were called to Zimmerman's house after his girlfriend claimed Zimmerman pointed a shotgun at her.George Zimmerman's girlfriend Samantha Scheibe told the 911 [emergency telephone number] dispatcher: "He's in my house, breaking all my shit because I asked him to leave. He's got a freaking gun breaking all my stuff right now."Zimmerman also phoned 911 during the incident and told the dispatcher: "My girlfriend has... for lack of a better word, gone crazy on me".He went on to claim in the call that he did not point a gun at Scheibe: "I never pulled a firearm. I never displayed it. When I was packing it I'm sure she saw it. I keep it next to the bed"."When she changed, she just started smashing stuff. Taking stuff that belonged to me. Throwing it outside. Throwing it out of her room. Throwing it all over the house. She broke a glass table", claimed Zimmerman.Zimmerman is charged with aggravated assault, a felony charge, as well as charges of battery, domestic violence and criminal mischief.Earlier this year, Zimmerman was found not guilty in the high-profile murder case of Trayvon Martin. Zimmerman shot Martin on February 26, 2012 while Martin was walking through a gated community after visiting a convenience store but Zimmerman's lawyers successfully argued Zimmerman had acted in self defence. The case raised concerns over "stand your ground" laws, United States gun culture, and the role of race and racial profiling as a factor in the events.George Zimmerman, a Florida man charged with the shooting of seventeen-year-old Trayvon Martin, was found not guilty of second-degree murder late Saturday night following 16 hours of deliberation. The case has drawn national attention in the United States because of questions it raises over "stand your ground" self-defense laws.Zimmerman shot Trayvon Martin on February 26, 2012. Prosecutors argued that Zimmerman, a neighborhood watch captain, had pursued Martin on the basis of race, as Martin walked through Zimmerman's gated community on the way back from a convenience store. Zimmerman's lawyers argued Martin attacked Zimmerman who then shot Martin in self-defense after Martin punched him and repeatedly slammed Zimmerman's head against the sidewalk.Following the decision to acquit, by a six member all-female jury, of both a second-degree murder and a manslaughter charge, Zimmerman's lawyer said: "I think the prosecution of George Zimmerman was disgraceful". On Twitter, Zimmerman's brother Robert said the decision made him "proud to be an American".Tracy Martin, Trayvon's father, posted on Twitter to say "Even though I am broken hearted my faith is unshattered". Jahvaris Fulton, Trayvon Martin's brother, posted "Et tu, America?", alluding to the Shakespearean phrase "Et tu, Brute?"The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) have launched a petition calling on the US government to bring federal civil rights charges against Zimmerman. NAACP president Benjamin Jealous stated, "We are outraged and heartbroken over today's verdict. [...] We will pursue civil rights charges with the Department of Justice, we will continue to fight for the removal of Stand Your Ground laws in every state, and we will not rest until racial profiling in all its forms is outlawed."According to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, toxicology reports reveal that the former pro-wrestler Chris Benoit had ten times the normal level of testosterone as well as hydrocodone (a painkiller), and Xanax (an anti-anxiety medication).Benoit also reportedly tested negative for alcohol.Benoit's wife, Nancy Benoit also tested positive for Xanax, and the painkiller hydromorphone. Benoit's son Daniel could not be tested due to a lack of urine samples, but Dr. Kris Sperry, the medical examiner who performed the autopsies on the bodies says that "Daniel Benoit was sedated at the time he died" and that "there's no reason why a seven-year-old child would be taking Xanax."Federal authorities have charged Dr. Phil Astin with improperly dispensing medication painkillers and other drugs to two other patients. Astin has pleaded not guilty.Rev. Mary Magdalen (Rachel Bevilacqua) of the Church of the SubGenius, a postmodern or parody religion, lost custody of her child in February of 2006, seemingly due to her involvement with the church.  Church members are touting the judge's response to her involvement with the church together with his decision as religious discrimination, and the ACLU is examining the situation.Judge James Punch (Orleans County) allegedly denied custody of the child her son out of anger, after seeing videos of Rev. Magdalen in a bondage "dress" and papier maché goat’s head at the church's X-Day celebration and performance art piece.  Judge Punch repeatedly asked, "Why a goat? What’s so significant about a goat’s head?"  When Rev. Magdalen replied, "I just thought the word 'goat' was funny," the court then pressed her to explain how her actions were funny, finally concluding with the statement, "Obviously there's nothing funny in those pictures."According to Rev. Magdalen, the judge reportedly lost his temper and shouted at her, calling her a "pervert," "mentally ill," "lying," and a participant in "sex orgies."  Proponents of her case have been working to make the actual transcript of this statement available online.Judge Punch ordered that Rev. Magdalen is to have absolutely no further contact with her son, not even in writing, after February 3, 2006.  On March 9th, the judge issued a verbal order stating that Rev. Magdalen was to cease all communication on the Internet regarding her son, thereby preventing her from posting transcripts of the actual court proceedings (however, a transcript of her own testimony was made available on March 26th).Rev. Magdalen has been a major figure in the Church of the SubGenius since 1997 when she and her son moved to Dallas, Texas to be with her fiancé Rev . Jesus (Steve Bevilacqua) and help keep the for-profit church afloat.  The church members traditionally consider the for-profit arm to have "religious significance", due in part to the church's intentional parody of Scientology and New Age religions, and the church declares itself to be "the only religion that is proud to pay its taxes."  The Bevilacquas relocated to Columbus in 2004.Religions or deities engaging in satire, such as the Church of the SubGenius, Discordianism, the Invisible Pink Unicorn, and the Flying Spaghetti Monster, have become significantly more widespread through the internet.  However, the Church of the SubGenius is relatively old, dating to 1979, and gained much of its current popularity through its published books, including the Book of the SubGenius, and its Hour of Slack radio program.  Discordianism is even older, dating to 1958 or 1959, and has strongly influenced modern non-satirical neopagan religions.  Such religions are now generally termed "postmodern" instead of "parody", as their followers frequently insist the religion is as real and valid as any other religion, but often accept the postmodernist critique of religious metanarratives.Rev. Magdalen's case has been profiled on a number of popular blogs and Internet sites, including Boing Boing and Fark.Following the word of this case being spread on the Internet, Judge Punch recused himself without comment.  The case is being re-assigned to another judge, and Rev. Magdalen will return to court next month.Police in Germany have arrested one of two men who they suspect was involved in a failed terrorist attack. Authorities say the pair planted two bombs on trains last month, but they failed to detonate. The Propane gas devices was discovered in baggage on trains at Dortmund and Koblenz stations on 31 July.The man was identified as 21 year-old Jussuf Mohammed. He was arrested at the main train station in Kiel. "The person appears to be one of the two suspects that have been sought since yesterday with the help of video footage that was made public," the public prosecutors' office said.On Friday, the Bundestag, the German parliament, voted in favour of legalising same-sex marriage. The bill was passed on the last day before the parliament's summer break.With 393 members voting for legalising same-sex marriage, four members abstained leaving 226 against votes. German chancellor Angela Merkel, on June 26, said she would allow parliamentarians to vote their own conscience, and Martin Schulz of the Social Democratic Party, on the next day, asked for voting before the election in September."I hope that the vote today not only promotes respect between the different opinions but also brings more social cohesion and peace", Merkel said. She voted against same-sex marriage, she told the media, explaining she believed the German constitutional definition of marriage required a man and a woman."Marriage for all is decided. Thus, there is unity and justice and freedom in Germany now for all who love." ((de))German language: ‍Die Ehe für alle ist beschlossen. Damit gibt es Einigkeit und Recht und Freiheit in Deutschland jetzt für alle, die sich lieben., Schulz tweeted. After the voting, Germany's capital football club Hertha Berlin tweeted "For diversity and against discrimination" ((de))German language: ‍Für Vielfalt und gegen Diskriminierung, and hoisted the rainbow-coloured flag — a symbol of the LGBT community.Civil partnership has been legal in Germany since 2001, but this bill awaits the president's signature to enter the lawbooks. Other countries in Europe where same-sex marriage is legal include Portugal, Spain, France, Belgium, Netherlands, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, Ireland, and the whole of the United Kingdom except Northern Ireland.The Bundesverfassungsgericht has declared legislation which would have allowed the German Air Force to shoot down hijacked passenger planes unconstitutional.The Luftsicherheitsgesetz (literally: Aviation Safety Act) was passed in January 2005 and mainly dealt with uncontroversial matters concerning the safety at airports. One provision however allowed the minister of defense to order the Air Force to shoot down a hijacked plane as a last resort if it could be presumed that that plane would be used as a weapon to kill people on the ground.The court based its decision to strike down that provision on three considerations:1) It found that the federal government lacks the legislative competence for that part of the act under the Basic Law, the German constitution, which gives the states the main authority to fight disasters and thus, as the court, implied terrorism. Only the federal cabinet acting as a whole could overrule that in certain cases and as the act specifically gives only one minister, the defense minister, that authority it is unconstitutional.2) The court also found that the act is incompatible with the constitutional right to life and the human dignity. The act would turn passengers and crew of a hijacked plane, victims themselves, into "objects"--- not only to the terrorists, but also to the state, which does not have the authority to kill innocents. If their deaths would be used to save others they would be reduced to mere "things" at the pleasure of the state. Further, the court believes that the arguments of the federal government, saying that passengers in such a situation would die anyway, are invalid, as human lives deserve protection regardless of the expected duration of their existence and that it is impossible to fully assess the situation leading to an eventual invocation of the act.3) The third consideration concerned planes manned solely by terrorists. Shooting down those would not violate the right to life and human dignity as in 2), however as described under 1) the federal government lacks competence to pass such legislation.A court in Bavaria, Germany today jailed rail worker Michael Paul for causing a train collision near Bad Aibling in February. The disaster left twelve dead and over 80 wounded.Michael Paul, 40, switched the two trains onto a collision course while distracted by playing the game Dungeon Hunter 5 on his mobile phone. Upon realising his mistake he attempted to avert the accident by contacting drivers directly, but dialled the wrong number. Official investigations ruled out technical faults."I know that I cannot undo what has happened, even if I wish I could," Paul told the court through his lawyers when his trial opened in Traunstein last month. The two commuter trains crashed head-on; the deceased were all males aged 24 to 49. Paul, who admitted negligence and expressed "huge guilt", received a three-and-a-half year sentence. "The accused is guilty of 12 counts of involuntary manslaughter and 85 counts of negligent bodily harm," said presiding judge Erich Fuchs. Paul faced a maximum of five years. Peter Dürr, representing one bereaved family, said sentencing was not his priority. "My mandate is to make sure that something like this doesn't happen again," Dürr said when the trial opened.Up to February, Germany hadn't had a fatal train crash since 2012; their worst was in 1998.A German court has upheld a ruling from a lower court, sanctioning the monitoring of the Church of Scientology by Germany's intelligence services.The North Rhine-Westphalia Higher Administrative Court in Münster ruled that there is enough information present to continue to allow Germany's intelligence agencies to monitor Scientology activities, asserting that the organization and its members have ambitions contrary to Germany's democratic order.  The agency which monitors Scientology in Germany is called the Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution, and has had the Church of Scientology under surveillance in Germany since 1997. The ruling stated: "There are concrete indications that Scientology's activities are to implement Scientology's program in Germany and to expand more and more Scientology's principles in government, economy and society". The court did not rule on whether or not the organization should be considered a religion, saying that was irrelevant to the ruling. The German government considers Scientology a business, and not a religion. The court cited "numerous indications" that "central constitutional values such as the dignity of mankind and the right to equal treatment would be suspended or restricted," in a Scientology society. The statement released along with the court's decision also said that "In particular, there is the suspicion that in a scientological society only Scientologists would enjoy civil rights". During the court proceedings the German court heard testimony concerning anti-democratic statements made by L. Ron Hubbard, the American founder of Scientology who died in 1986. The court did not find any evidence that the organization had distanced itself from Hubbard's statements. Certain statements made by Hubbard detail how to harass ex-members and critics of Scientology. Scientologists presented other writings by Hubbard, and asserted that he was a peaceful person and was being quoted out of context. Other evidence considered by the court included "The Way to Happiness" brochures, part of the organization's campaign to disseminate Scientology principles worldwide. The project is called "Operation Planetary Calm". A brochure was sent to the office of German Interior Minister Wolfgang Schäuble, whose office monitors Scientology and other groups deemed a threat to Germany's constitution.When the Church of Scientology opened new headquarters in Berlin in January, opponents of Scientology protested outside the building and accused the organization of brainwashing its members. In December, Germany's top security officials stated that they believe Scientology is in violation of the German constitution, and requested state officials to investigate whether they have sufficient information to ban the organization in Germany.Scientology spokeswoman Sabine Weber said that the organization will appeal the ruling.  Karin Pouw, public affairs director for the Church of Scientology International told the Associated Press: "Despite over 10 years of intrusive investigation and harassment of Scientologists, not one shred of evidence has been uncovered to justify this politically motivated investigation". A statement released by the Church of Scientology in Germany said: "The German Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution should finally end this farce and turn its attention to real enemies of the Constitution and real danger so as to do what it is there for: to protect the German constitution and the basic rights of the people".  The Church of Scientology took German authorities to court in March 2003, seeking to stop further surveillance of their organization. In a November 2004 ruling, a court in Cologne upheld the legality of the German government's surveillance of the Church of Scientology.The United States Department of State has criticized Germany for its surveillance of Scientology in its annual Human Rights Report.On Wednesday, lawmakers of German ruling coalition parties — Christian Democratic Union of Germany ((de))German language: ‍Christlich Demokratische Union Deutschlands (CDU), Social Democratic Party of Germany ((de))German language: ‍Sozialdemokratische Partei Deutschlands (SPD), and Christian Social Union in Bavaria ((de))German language: ‍Christlich-Soziale Union in Bayern (CSU) — announced they were considering imposing new mandatory taxation Muslims would have to pay, which the government would distribute as funding to mosques.  The lawmakers said this was a possible solution to stop funding and finance of the mosques in Germany from foreign countries and institutes.The proposal would introduce taxes for Muslims similar to the mandatory taxes the state collects from practicing Protestants and Catholics in order to fund the churches.Official estimates indicate Germany has around 4.4 to 4.7 million resident Muslims.  Mosques currently receive funding from foreign sources.  Press reports indicate Gulf countries provide funding to mosques and imams.  Turkish-Islamic Union for Religious Affairs ((tr))Turkish language: ‍Diyanet İşleri Türk-İslam Birliği (DİTİB) is reportedly one of the biggest foreign institutes currently funding mosques in Germany.  DİTİB is under direction by the Turkish government and reportedly influences over 900 German Muslim communities.Speaking to Deutsche Welle, Seyran Ates, founder of a progressive mosque in German capital Berlin, said German Islam "has a huge influence from outside, from foreign countries".  Ates went on to say, "They [German Muslims] have to take care about their own religion here in Germany.  So Muslims in Germany should do something for Islam in Germany".Thorsten Frei of CDU told German daily Die Welt this is an "important step" enabling "Islam in Germany to emancipate itself from foreign states".  CSU's Michael Frieser said, "Mosques must be open and transparent".Describing the idea of the new tax as "worthy of discussion", Burkhard Lischka of SPD noted: "We need to work with the states on this issue, since the church tax is then responsibility of the states".Some other European governments, similarly to Germany, mandate Christians pay church taxes in order to fund the churches; including Austria, Italy, and Sweden.The German archaeologist Susanne Osthoff, who was abducted in Iraq on November 25th, has been freed. Her brother told n-tv that she had been brought to the German embassy in Baghdad and is well. Foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier confirmed the reports and said that her Iraqi driver, who was abducted along with her, is still in the hands of the kidnappers but they have promised to release him as well.How she was freed, whether ransom was paid, or even which group abducted her is still unknown at this time. Steinmeier declined to answer any questions on the topic.The captors demanded that the German government breaks off diplomatic relations with Iraq, which it has refused to do.Osthoff had been living in Iraq since 1991. She is a converted Muslim and married to a Jordanian. Her 12-year old daughter is living in Germany. In recent years Osthoff became more and more involved with delivering aid to the Iraqi people. She was featured on the front page of the New York Times in 2003 [1] and appeared in a series about her work in the German daily Süddeutsche Zeitung.Wikinews has learned that a German Internet watchdog group is planning on removing the album cover of a German rock band album called Virgin Killer from search engines, just four days after the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), in the United Kingdom, blocked access to it on the free encyclopedia, Wikipedia. Wikipedia, along with Wikinews, are owned by the Wikimedia Foundation.The German association for voluntary self-regulation in online media (FSM) asked the Federal Inspectorate for young people media (BPjM) on December 9, to remove URLs to the album cover from Germany's search engines. The action appears to be in direct response to the Wikipedia article and image blockage by the IWF on December 7. According to their website, the BPjM's goal is to "protect children and adolescents in Germany from any media which might contain harmful or dangerous content", pursuant to Germany's Youth Protection Act. The protection act regulates the distribution of harmful materials to minors. According to German press reports, the FSM received complaints and concerns that the image could be considered child pornography and pose a danger to minors.The Virgin Killer album cover is from the 1976 German rock band Scorpions. It depicts a girl who appears to be around 10 to 12-years old, posing nude, with a lens crack crossing over her genitals, but nothing blocking out her breasts. It first appeared on the band's album over thirty years ago, and Klaus Meine, the lead singer for Scorpions, recently said that they regret having made the cover. It was later replaced with a photo of the band.Despite the complaint, the FSM does not believe the album cover is actually child pornography, but says the dissemination of images of underage children as appears on the album cover, is "forbidden" in Germany."The picture shows the girl in an unnatural 'pose', and a such depiction is prohibited according to the German Youth Media Protection Law," said Maja Winter to Wikinews in an exclusive statement.The URLs to the album cover will be blocked from being displayed or searched in search results in the German search engine service, which according to Winter "are members of the FSM". Winter also added that internet users in Germany will not be blocked from accessing the image."The URL will thus still be online, but will not be searchable by the respective search engine services. The FSM is not planning nor developing nor implementing an internet filter on the access-level to block [the cover]," added Winter who also said that she had no information on previous complaints in the past 30 years. Winter also could not answer why the FSM decided to take such an action after so many years of the album cover being available and should contact the BPjM for more information. Despite the claim from the FSM, the BPjM said in a statement to Wikinews that they denied having any knowledge of any such attempt at removing URLs to the cover."The BPjM has no knowledge of any measures being taken to block the depiction of the album cover from German search engines," said Petra Meier, a spokesperson for the BPjM to Wikinews. The spokesperson also added that there have been no complaints filed with the BPjM regarding the cover.As first reported by Wikinews on December 7, British Internet Service Providers (ISPs) implemented a monitoring and filtering mechanism that blocked access to the album cover and the album's article on Wikipedia. The measures applied redirect traffic for a significant portion of the UK's Internet population through six servers which can log and filter the content that is available to the end user. A serious side-effect of this is the inability of administrators on Wikimedia sites to block vandals and other troublemakers without potentially impacting hundreds of thousands of innocent contributors who are working on the sites in good faith. The IWF said that the image could "contain illegal" material, but on December 9, reversed their decision and unblocked the image and article."The Protection of Children Act 1978 as amended in the Sexual Offences Act 2003, makes it an offence to take, make, permit to be taken, distribute, show, possess with intent to distribute, and advertise indecent photographs or pseudo-photographs of children under the age of 18. The ‘making’ of such images includes downloading, that is, making a copy of a child sexual abuse image on a computer, so, in the UK, accessing such content online is a serious criminal offence," said the IWF in a statement on their website on December 7. Despite this, Mike Godwin, the legal counsel for Wikimedia said on December 9 that the image does not appear to be illegal anywhere in the world."We recognize the good intentions of Internet watch groups, including their focus on blocking and discouraging illegal content. Nevertheless, this incident underscores the need for transparency and accountability in the processes of the Internet Watch Foundation and similar bodies around the world," said the legal counsel for Wikimedia, Mike Godwin. On December 8, Godwin stated that there is "no reason to believe the article, or the image contained in the article, has been held to be illegal in any jurisdiction anywhere in the world."